[114th Congress Public Law 266]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 1381]]

                   BOKO HARAM REGIONAL THREAT STRATEGY

[[Page 130 STAT. 1382]]

Public Law 114-266
114th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To require a regional strategy to address the threat posed by Boko 
              Haram. <<NOTE: Dec. 14, 2016 -  [S. 1632]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: Nigeria.>> REGIONAL STRATEGY TO ADDRESS THE 
                              THREAT POSED BY BOKO HARAM.

    (a) Strategy Required.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        State and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly develop and 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a five-year 
        strategy to help enable the Government of Nigeria, members of 
        the Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat Boko Haram (MNJTF) 
        authorized by the African Union, and relevant partners to 
        counter the regional threat of Boko Haram and assist the 
        Government of Nigeria and its neighbors to accept and address 
        legitimate grievances of vulnerable populations in areas 
        affected by Boko Haram.
            (2) Elements.--At a minimum, the strategy must address the 
        following elements:
                    (A) Enhance, pursuant to existing authorities and 
                restrictions, the institutional capacity, including 
                military capabilities, of the Government of Nigeria and 
                partner nations in the region, as appropriate, to 
                counter the threat posed by Boko Haram.
                    (B) Provide humanitarian support to civilian 
                populations impacted by Boko Haram's activity.
                    (C) <<NOTE: Human rights.>> Specific activities 
                through which the United States Government intends to 
                improve and enhance the capacity of Multinational Joint 
                Task Force to Combat Boko Haram partner nations to 
                investigate and prosecute human rights abuses by 
                security forces and promote respect for the rule of law 
                within the military.
                    (D) A means for assisting Nigeria, and as 
                appropriate, Multinational Joint Task Force to Combat 
                Boko Haram nations, to counter violent extremism, 
                including efforts to address underlying societal factors 
                shown to contribute to the ability of Boko Haram to 
                radicalize and recruit individuals.
                    (E) A plan to strengthen and promote the rule of 
                law, including by improving the capacity of the civilian 
                police and judicial system in Nigeria, enhancing public 
                safety, and responding to crime (including gender-based 
                violence),

[[Page 130 STAT. 1383]]

                while respecting human rights and strengthening 
                accountability measures, including measures to prevent 
                corruption.
                    (F) Strengthen the long-term capacity of the 
                Government of Nigeria to enhance security for schools 
                such that children are safer and girls seeking an 
                education are better protected, and to combat gender-
                based violence and gender inequality.
                    (G) Identify and develop mechanisms for coordinating 
                the implementation of the strategy across the inter-
                agency and with the Government of Nigeria, regional 
                partners, and other relevant foreign partners.
                    (H) Identify the resources required to achieve the 
                strategy's objectives.

    (b) Assessment.--The Director of National Intelligence shall submit, 
to the appropriate committees of Congress, an assessment regarding--
            (1) the willingness and capability of the Government of 
        Nigeria and regional partners to implement the strategy 
        developed under subsection (a), including the capability gaps, 
        if any, of the Government and military forces of Nigeria that 
        would need to be addressed to enable the Government of Nigeria 
        and the governments of its partner countries in the region--
                    (A) to counter the threat of Boko Haram; and
                    (B) to address the legitimate grievances of 
                vulnerable populations in areas affected by Boko Haram; 
                and
            (2) significant United States intelligence gaps concerning 
        Boko Haram or on the willingness and capacity of the Government 
        of Nigeria and regional partners to implement the strategy 
        developed under subsection (a).

    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that lack of 
economic opportunity and access to education, justice, and other social 
services contributes to the ability of Boko Haram to radicalize and 
recruit individuals.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the

[[Page 130 STAT. 1384]]

Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of     
Representatives.

    Approved December 14, 2016.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1632:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 161 (2015):
                                    Sept. 22, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 162 (2016):
                                    Dec. 7, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>