[110th Congress Public Law 203]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ203.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 701]]

Public Law 110-203
110th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
    Congratulating the Army Reserve on its centennial, which will be 
 formally celebrated on April 23, 2008, and commemorating the historic 
   contributions of its veterans and continuing contributions of its 
 soldiers to the vital national security interests and homeland defense 
missions of the <<NOTE: Apr. 23, 2008 -  [H.J. Res. 70]>> United States.

Whereas on January 9, 1905, the 26th President of the United States, 
    Theodore Roosevelt, dispatched a ``special message'' to the Senate 
    and the House of Representatives that ``earnestly recommended 
    passage'' of legislation to establish a Federal reserve force of 
    skilled and trained personnel to bring ``our Army * * * to the 
    highest point of efficiency'';

Whereas on December 14, 1905, the then-Secretary of War and later 27th 
    President of the United States, William Howard Taft, transmitted to 
    the Senate and the House of Representatives a draft bill and letter 
    authored by Major General Leonard Wood, ``strongly commending * * * 
    proposed legislation'' to ``increase the efficiency of the Medical 
    Corps of the Army'' by establishing a Federal reserve force 
    comprised of specially trained personnel;

Whereas in response to the recommendations of President Theodore 
    Roosevelt and senior military and civilian leaders, the 60th 
    Congress enacted Public Law 101, entitled ``An Act to increase the 
    efficiency of the Medical Department of the United States Army'', 
    ch. 150, 35 Stat. 66, which was signed into law on April 23, 1908, 
    by President Theodore Roosevelt;

Whereas Public Law 101 authorized the establishment of the first Federal 
    reserve force and the first reservoir of trained officers in a 
    reserve status for a United States military service;

Whereas Congress subsequently adapted, expanded, and amended the reserve 
    organization of the Army to include additional military occupational 
    specialties and capabilities and established the organization today 
    known as the Army Reserve;

Whereas the Army Reserve has played a major role in the defense of our 
    Nation and in furtherance of United States interests for 100 years;

Whereas many distinguished Americans have served honorably and with 
    distinction in the Army Reserve, including Presidents Harry S Truman 
    and Ronald W. Reagan, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff, General Henry H. Shelton, Brigadier General Theodore 
    Roosevelt, Jr., Major General William J. Donovan (Director of the 
    Office of Strategic Services during World War II), Drs. Charles H. 
    Mayo and William J. Mayo, and Captain Eddie Rickenbacker;


[[Page 122 STAT. 702]]


Whereas the Army Reserve contributed 169,500 soldiers to the Army during 
    World War I;

Whereas the Army Reserve contributed 200,000 soldiers and 29 percent of 
    the Army's officers during World War II and was recognized by 
    General George C. Marshall for its unique and invaluable 
    contributions to the national defense;

Whereas 240,500 soldiers of the Army Reserve were called to active duty 
    during the Korean War;

Whereas more than 60,000 Army Reserve soldiers were called to active 
    duty during the Berlin Crisis;

Whereas 35 Army Reserve units were activated and deployed in support of 
    operations in Vietnam, where they served with distinction and honor;

Whereas the Army Reserve contributed more than 94,000 soldiers in 
    support of Operations Desert Storm and Desert Shield in 1990 and 
    1991;

Whereas the Army Reserve contributed more than 48 percent of the reserve 
    component soldiers mobilized in support of Operation Joint Endeavor 
    and Operation Joint Guard in Bosnia;

Whereas since September 11, 2001, the Army Reserve has provided 
    indispensable and sustained support for Operations Enduring Freedom, 
    Noble Eagle, and Iraqi Freedom, with 98 percent of units either 
    deployed or providing mobilized soldiers, and more than 147,000 
    individual soldiers being mobilized (of which more than 110,000 
    individual soldiers have deployed) in support of the Global War on 
    Terrorism;

Whereas more than 39,000 individual soldiers of the Army Reserve have 
    served multiple deployments since September 11, 2001;

Whereas 13,003 Army Reserve soldiers were forward-deployed in the 
    Central Command Area of Responsibility on October 31, 2007, and 102 
    soldiers of the Army Reserve had borne the ultimate sacrifice in 
    support of Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom through 
    October 31, 2007;

Whereas the Army Reserve is organized into 3 components, the Ready 
    Reserve, the Standby Reserve, and the Retired Reserve, which 
    together contain more than 601,000 soldiers;

Whereas the Army cannot go to war or sustain a military operation 
    without the highly skilled and trained personnel of the Army 
    Reserve;

Whereas the Army Reserve provides more than 37 percent of the mission 
    essential combat support and combat service support forces of the 
    Army;

Whereas 100 percent of the Army's Internment Settlement Brigades, Judge 
    Advocate General Units (Legal Support Organizations), Medical 
    Groups, Railway Units, and Training and Exercise Divisions are in 
    the Army Reserve;

Whereas more than 66 percent of the Army's Civil Affairs Units, 
    Psychological Operations Units, Theater Signal Commands, 
    Expeditionary Sustainment Commands, and Medical Capabilities are in 
    the Army Reserve;

Whereas the Army Reserve is no longer a force held in strategic reserve 
    but today functions as an integral and essential operational reserve 
    in support of the missions of the active Army;


[[Page 122 STAT. 703]]


Whereas the Army cannot go to war or sustain a military operation 
    without the skilled and trained Ready Reserve and Retired Reserve 
    soldiers of the Army Reserve;

Whereas the Selected Reserve component of the Army Reserve is comprised 
    of more than 30,000 officers and 150,000 enlisted soldiers who have 
    volunteered their personal service in defense of the Constitution 
    and their fellow citizens;

Whereas the Army and the Army Reserve are recognized as institutions 
    that have played historic and decisive roles in promoting the cause 
    of individual dignity and the value of integration;

Whereas nearly one in four Selected Reserve soldiers and more than one 
    in five Individual Ready Reserve soldiers are women whose 
    contributions are consistently characterized by a high degree of 
    commitment, professionalism, and military bearing;

Whereas the ability of individual soldiers and the Army Reserve to 
    perform their wartime missions is contingent on the active 
    engagement and support of their families, employers, and local 
    communities;

Whereas the Army Reserve is a community-based force with an active 
    presence in 1,100 communities and 975 Army Reserve centers in 
    operation throughout the United States;

Whereas Sir Winston Churchill once remarked that ``Reservists are twice 
    the citizen'', a sentiment that applies especially to the soldiers 
    of the Army Reserve; and

Whereas the Army Reserve makes these contributions to the security of 
    our Nation in return for less than 5 percent of the Army's total 
    budget: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Congress--
            (1) congratulates the Army Reserve on the occasion of the 
        100th anniversary of the enactment of its original authorizing 
        law;
            (2) recognizes and commends the Army Reserve for the 
        selfless and dedicated service of its past and present citizen-
        soldiers whose personal courage, contributions, and sacrifices 
        have helped preserve the freedom and advance the national 
        security and homeland defense of the United States; and

[[Page 122 STAT. 704]]

            (3) extends its gratitude to the veterans, soldiers, 
        families, and employers whose essential and constant support 
        have enabled the Army Reserve to accomplish its vital missions 
        and renews our Nation's commitment in support of their noble 
        efforts.

    Approved April 23, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 70:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 154 (2008):
            Apr. 8, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 14, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>