[110th Congress Public Law 370]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ370.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 4035]]

Public Law 110-370
110th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 To honor the achievements and contributions of Native Americans to the 
  United States, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 8, 2008 -  [H.J. 
                               Res. 62]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Native 
American Heritage Day Act of 2008.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Native American Heritage Day Act of 
2008''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) Native Americans are the descendants of the aboriginal, 
        indigenous, native people who were the original inhabitants of 
        the United States;
            (2) Native Americans have volunteered to serve in the United 
        States Armed Forces and have served with valor in all of the 
        Nation's military actions from the Revolutionary War through the 
        present day, and in most of those actions, more Native Americans 
        per capita served in the Armed Forces than any other group of 
        Americans;
            (3) Native Americans have made distinct and significant 
        contributions to the United States and the rest of the world in 
        many fields, including agriculture, medicine, music, language, 
        and art, and Native Americans have distinguished themselves as 
        inventors, entrepreneurs, spiritual leaders, and scholars;
            (4) Native Americans should be recognized for their 
        contributions to the United States as local and national 
        leaders, artists, athletes, and scholars;
            (5) nationwide recognition of the contributions that Native 
        Americans have made to the fabric of American society will 
        afford an opportunity for all Americans to demonstrate their 
        respect and admiration of Native Americans for their important 
        contributions to the political, cultural, and economic life of 
        the United States;
            (6) nationwide recognition of the contributions that Native 
        Americans have made to the Nation will encourage self-esteem, 
        pride, and self-awareness in Native Americans of all ages;
            (7) designation of the Friday following Thanksgiving of each 
        year as Native American Heritage Day will underscore the 
        government-to-government relationship between the United States 
        and Native American governments; and
            (8) designation of Native American Heritage Day will 
        encourage public elementary and secondary schools in the

[[Page 122 STAT. 4036]]

        United States to enhance understanding of Native Americans by 
        providing curricula and classroom instruction focusing on the 
        achievements and contributions of Native Americans to the 
        Nation.

SEC. 3. IMPLEMENTATION OF NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE DAY.

    Congress--
            (1) designates Friday, November 28, 2008, as ``Native 
        American Heritage Day''; and
            (2) encourages the people of the United States, as well as 
        Federal, State, and local governments, and interested groups and 
        organizations to observe Native American Heritage Day with 
        appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities, including 
        activities relating to--
                    (A) the historical status of Native American tribal 
                governments as well as the present day status of Native 
                Americans;
                    (B) the cultures, traditions, and languages of 
                Native Americans; and
                    (C) the rich Native American cultural legacy that 
                all Americans enjoy today.

    Approved October 8, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 62:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 110-435 (Comm. on Indian Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 153 (2007):
                                    Nov. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 154 (2008):
                                    Sept. 22, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    Sept. 26, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>