[110th Congress Public Law 359]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ359.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 4005]]

Public Law 110-359
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the Administrator of General Services to provide for the 
redevelopment of the Old Post Office Building located in the District of 
            Columbia. <<NOTE: Oct. 8, 2008 -  [H.R. 5001]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Old Post 
Office Building Redevelopment Act of 2008.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Old Post Office Building 
Redevelopment Act of 2008''.
SEC. 2. OLD POST OFFICE BUILDING DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Old Post Office Building'' means the land, 
including any improvements thereon and specifically including the 
Pavilion Annex, that is located at 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., in the 
District of Columbia, and under the jurisdiction, custody, and control 
of the General Services Administration.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) For almost a decade the Subcommittee on Economic 
        Development, Public Buildings, and Emergency Management of the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives has expressed considerable concern about the 
        waste and neglect of the valuable, historic Old Post Office 
        Building, centrally located in the heart of the Nation's Capital 
        on Pennsylvania Avenue, and has pressed the General Services 
        Administration to develop and fully use this building.
            (2) The policy of the Government long has been to preserve 
        and make usable historic properties rather than sell them for 
        revenue.
            (3) Security concerns related to this property's proximity 
        to the White House may hinder the sale of the Old Post Office 
        Building to a private party.
            (4) On December 28, 2000, the General Services 
        Administration, pursuant to Public Law 105-277, submitted to the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and 
        Environment and Public Works of the Senate a plan for the 
        comprehensive redevelopment of the Old Post Office.
            (5) The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
        approved the redevelopment plan on May 16, 2001, and the 
        Committees on Appropriations and Environment and Public Works 
        approved the plan on June 15, 2001.
            (6) The General Services Administration issued a Request for 
        Expression of Interest in 2004 for developing the Old Post

[[Page 122 STAT. 4006]]

        Office Building that generated a healthy, private sector 
        interest, but the General Services Administration has failed to 
        proceed with implementation of the approved redevelopment plan.
            (7) Redevelopment of the Old Post Office Building will 
        preserve the historic integrity of this unique and important 
        asset, put it to its highest and best use, and provide a 
        lucrative financial return to the Government.
SEC. 4. REDEVELOPMENT OF OLD POST OFFICE BUILDING.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services is directed 
to proceed with redevelopment of the Old Post Office Building, in 
accordance with existing authorities available to the Administrator and 
consistent with the redevelopment plan previously approved by the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committees on Appropriations and Environment and 
Public Works of the Senate.
    (b) Relocation of Existing Building Tenants.--The Administrator is 
authorized, notwithstanding section 3307 of title 40, United States 
Code, and otherwise in accordance with existing authorities available to 
the Administrator, to provide replacement space for Federal agency 
tenants housed in the Old Post Office Building whose relocation is 
necessary for redevelopment of the Building.
SEC. 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services shall 
transmit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
Works of the Senate a report on any proposed redevelopment agreement 
related to the Old Post Office Building.
    (b) Contents.--A report transmitted under this section shall include 
a summary of a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed development 
agreement and a description of the material provisions of the proposed 
agreement.
    (c) Review by Congress.--Any proposed development agreement related 
to the Old Post Office Building may not become effective until the end 
of a 30-day period of continuous session of Congress following the date 
of the transmittal of the report required under this section. For 
purposes of the preceding sentence, continuity of a session of Congress 
is broken only by an adjournment sine die, and there shall be excluded 
from the computation of such 30-day period any day during which either 
House of Congress

[[Page 122 STAT. 4007]]

is not in session during an adjournment of more than 3 days to a day 
certain.

    Approved October 8, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5001:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 110-724 (Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 110-501 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 154 (2008):
            June 23, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>