[110th Congress Public Law 263]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ263.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 2480]]

Public Law 110-263
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To redesignate Lock and Dam No. 5 of the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River 
Navigation System near Redfield, Arkansas, authorized by the Rivers and 
Harbors Act approved July 24, 1946, as the ``Colonel Charles D. Maynard 
         Lock and Dam''. <<NOTE: July 15, 2008 -  [H.R. 781]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Colonel Charles D. Maynard, who served the Nation with 
        distinction as an engineer officer in World War II and 
        afterwards oversaw the massive buildup of work on the ``Arkansas 
        River Project'' in the early 1960s which at the time was the 
        largest civil works project ever undertaken by the Corps of 
        Engineers while concurrently overseeing construction of Greers 
        Ferry and Beaver Dams on the White River.
            (2) Colonel Charles D. Maynard was assigned as district 
        engineer of the Little Rock Engineer District for 3 years during 
        which time he directed planning, design, and construction of 13 
        locks and dams of the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River Navigation 
        Project.
            (3) Colonel Charles D. Maynard successfully met the 
        challenging schedules set by Congress and the Administration 
        while coordinating with a host of state and Federal agencies in 
        Arkansas and Oklahoma.
            (4) Colonel Charles D. Maynard served as Chairman and 
        President of the Water Resources Association of America, 
        President of the Arkansas Basin Association, member of the 
        Arkansas Basin Coordinating Committee of the Arkansas Basin 
        Development Association.
            (5) Colonel Charles D. Maynard actively promoted development 
        of waterborne transportation in Arkansas and was appointed by 3 
        governors to serve on the Arkansas Waterways Commission for 21 
        years.
            (6) Colonel Charles D. Maynard provided Congressional 
        testimony in support of the McClellan-Kerr Arkansas River 
        Navigation System, Fourche Creek Flood Control Project, and 
        Montgomery Point Lock and Dam on behalf of various Arkansas 
        associations and committees, and was named as a member of the 
        Arkansas River Hall of Fame.
            (7) Colonel Charles D. Maynard, who died on October 22, 
        2005, served in numerous community and civic roles, including 
        the United States Savings Bond Coordinator for Arkansas for 10 
        years, Campaign Chairman for the United Way of Pulaski

[[Page 122 STAT. 2481]]

        County, Chairman Emeritus of Central Arkansas Radiation 
        Treatment Center, and President of the Little Rock Chamber of 
        Commerce.
            (8) Colonel Charles D. Maynard was a dedicated citizen who 
        served on a number of boards supporting his state and local 
        community including Arkansas Arts Center, the Arkansas Symphony, 
        and the Foundation Board of the University of Arkansas for 
        Medical Sciences.
SEC. 2. LOCK AND DAM REDESIGNATION.

    (a) Redesignation.--Lock and Dam No. 5 of the McClellan-Kerr 
Arkansas River Navigation System near Redfield, Arkansas, authorized by 
the Rivers and Harbors Act approved July 24, 1946, shall be known and 
redesignated as the ``Colonel Charles D. Maynard Lock and Dam''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the lock and dam referred 
to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Colonel 
Charles D. Maynard Lock and Dam''.

    Approved July 15, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 781:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 110-229 (Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 153 (2007):
                                    July 16, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 154 (2008):
                                    June 24, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>