[110th Congress Public Law 323]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ323.110]

[[Page 122 STAT. 3539]]

Public Law 110-323
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To make certain reforms with respect to the Government Accountability 
Office, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 22, 2008 -  [H.R. 5683]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Government 
Accountability Office Act of 2008.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 31 USC 701 note.>> Short Title.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``Government Accountability Office Act of 2008''.

    (b) References.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in 
this Act an amendment is expressed in terms of an amendment to a section 
or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a 
section or other provision of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; references; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Provisions relating to future annual pay adjustments.
Sec. 3. Pay adjustment relating to certain previous years.
Sec. 4.  Lump-sum payment for certain performance-based compensation.
Sec. 5. Inspector General.
Sec. 6. Reimbursement of audit costs.
Sec. 7. Financial disclosure requirements.
Sec. 8. Highest basic pay rate.
Sec. 9. Additional authorities.

SEC. 2. PROVISIONS RELATING TO FUTURE ANNUAL PAY ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 732 <<NOTE: 31 USC 732.>> is amended by 
adding at the end the following:

    ``(j)(1) For purposes of this subsection--
            ``(A) the term `pay increase', as used with respect to an 
        officer or employee in connection with a year, means the total 
        increase in the rate of basic pay (expressed as a percentage) of 
        such officer or employee, taking effect under section 731(b) and 
        subsection (c)(3) in such year;
            ``(B) the term `required minimum percentage', as used with 
        respect to an officer or employee in connection with a year, 
        means the percentage equal to the total increase in rates of 
        basic pay (expressed as a percentage) taking effect under 
        sections 5303 and 5304-5304a of title 5 in such year with 
        respect to General Schedule positions within the pay locality 
        (as defined by section 5302(5) of title 5) in which the position 
        of such officer or employee is located;
            ``(C) the term `covered officer or employee', as used with 
        respect to a pay increase, means any individual--

[[Page 122 STAT. 3540]]

                    ``(i) who is an officer or employee of the 
                Government Accountability Office, other than an officer 
                or employee described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) 
                of section 4(c)(1) of the Government Accountability 
                Office Act of 2008, determined as of the effective date 
                of such pay increase; and
                    ``(ii) whose performance is at least at a 
                satisfactory level, as determined by the Comptroller 
                General under the provisions of subsection (c)(3) for 
                purposes of the adjustment taking effect under such 
                provisions in such year; and
            ``(D) the term `nonpermanent merit pay' means any amount 
        payable under section 731(b) which does not constitute basic 
        pay.

    ``(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if 
(disregarding this subsection) the pay increase that would otherwise 
take effect with respect to a covered officer or employee in a year 
would be less than the required minimum percentage for such officer or 
employee in such year, the Comptroller General shall provide for a 
further increase in the rate of basic pay of such officer or employee.
    ``(B) The further increase under this subsection--
            ``(i) shall be equal to the amount necessary to make up for 
        the shortfall described in subparagraph (A); and
            ``(ii) shall take effect as of the same date as the pay 
        increase otherwise taking effect in such year.

    ``(C) Nothing in this paragraph shall be considered to permit or 
require that a rate of basic pay be increased to an amount inconsistent 
with the limitation set forth in subsection (c)(2).
    ``(D) If (disregarding this subsection) the covered officer or 
employee would also have received any nonpermanent merit pay in such 
year, such nonpermanent merit pay shall be decreased by an amount equal 
to the portion of such officer's or employee's basic pay for such year 
which is attributable to the further increase described in subparagraph 
(A) (as determined by the Comptroller General), but to not less than 
zero.
    ``(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the 
effective date of any pay increase (within the meaning of paragraph 
(1)(A)) taking effect with respect to a covered officer or employee in 
any year shall be the same as the effective date of any adjustment 
taking effect under section 5303 of title 5 with respect to statutory 
pay systems (as defined by section 5302(1) of title 5) in such year.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 31 USC 732 note.>> Effective Date.--The amendment made 
by this section shall apply with respect to any pay increase (as defined 
by such amendment) taking effect on or after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 31 USC 732 note.>> PAY ADJUSTMENT RELATING TO 
                    CERTAIN PREVIOUS YEARS.

    (a) Applicability.--This section applies in the case of any 
individual who, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is an 
officer or employee of the Government Accountability Office, excluding--
            (1) an officer or employee described in subparagraph (A), 
        (B), or (C) of section 4(c)(1); and
            (2) an officer or employee who received both a 2.6 percent 
        pay increase in January 2006 and a 2.4 percent pay increase in 
        February 2007.

[[Page 122 STAT. 3541]]

    (b) Pay Increase Defined.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``pay increase'', as used with respect to an officer or employee in 
connection with a year, means the total increase in the rate of basic 
pay (expressed as a percentage) of such officer or employee, taking 
effect under sections 731(b) and 732(c)(3) of title 31, United States 
Code, in such year.
    (c) Prospective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effect.--Effective with 
respect to pay for service performed in any pay period beginning after 
the end of the 6-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
this Act (or such earlier date as the Comptroller General may specify), 
the rate of basic pay for each individual to whom this section applies 
shall be determined as if such individual had received both a 2.6 
percent pay increase for 2006 and a 2.4 percent pay increase for 2007, 
subject to subsection (e).

    (d) Lump-Sum Payment.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 6 months 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
shall, subject to the availability of appropriations, pay to each 
individual to whom this section applies a lump-sum payment. Subject to 
subsection (e), such lump-sum payment shall be equal to--
            (1)(A) the total amount of basic pay that would have been 
        paid to the individual, for service performed during the period 
        beginning on the effective date of the pay increase for 2006 and 
        ending on the day before the effective date of the pay 
        adjustment under subsection (c) (or, if earlier, the date on 
        which the individual retires or otherwise ceases to be employed 
        by the Government Accountability Office), if such individual had 
        received both a 2.6 percent pay increase for 2006 and a 2.4 
        percent pay increase for 2007, minus
            (B) the total amount of basic pay that was in fact paid to 
        the individual for service performed during the period described 
        in subparagraph (A); and
            (2) increased by 4 percent of the amount calculated under 
        paragraph (1).

Eligibility for a lump-sum payment under this subsection shall be 
determined solely on the basis of whether an individual satisfies the 
requirements of subsection (a) (to be considered an individual to whom 
this section applies), and without regard to such individual's 
employment status as of any date following the date of the enactment of 
this Act or any other factor.
    (e) Conditions.--Nothing in subsection (c) or (d) shall be 
considered to permit or require--
            (1) the payment of any rate (or portion of the lump-sum 
        amount as calculated under subsection (d)(1) based on a rate) 
        for any pay period, to the extent that such rate would be (or 
        would have been) inconsistent with the limitation that applies 
        (or that applied) with respect to such pay period under section 
        732(c)(2) of title 31, United States Code; or
            (2) the payment of any rate or amount based on the pay 
        increase for 2006 or 2007 (as the case may be), if--
                    (A) the performance of the officer or employee 
                involved was not at a satisfactory level, as determined 
                by the Comptroller General under paragraph (3) of 
                section 732(c) of such title 31 for purposes of the 
                adjustment under such paragraph for that year; or
                    (B) the individual involved was not an officer or 
                employee of the Government Accountability Office on the 
                date as of which that increase took effect.

[[Page 122 STAT. 3542]]

As used in paragraph (2)(A), the term ``satisfactory'' includes a rating 
of ``meets expectations'' (within the meaning of the performance 
appraisal system used for purposes of the adjustment under section 
732(c)(3) of such title 31 for the year involved).
    (f) Retirement.--
            (1) In general.--The portion of the lump-sum payment paid 
        under subsection (d) to an officer or employee as calculated 
        under subsection (d)(1) shall, for purposes of any determination 
        of the average pay (as defined by section 8331 or 8401 of title 
        5, United States Code) which is used to compute an annuity under 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title--
                    (A) be treated as basic pay (as defined by section 
                8331 or 8401 of such title); and
                    (B) be allocated to the biweekly pay periods covered 
                by subsection (d).
            (2) Contributions to civil service retirement and disability 
        retirement fund.--
                    (A) Employee contributions.--The Government 
                Accountability Office shall deduct and withhold from the 
                lump-sum payment paid to each employee under subsection 
                (d) an amount equal to the difference between--
                          (i) employee contributions that would have 
                      been deducted and withheld from pay under section 
                      8334 or 8422 of title 5, United States Code, if 
                      the portion of the lump-sum payment as calculated 
                      under subsection (d)(1) had been additionally paid 
                      as basic pay during the period described under 
                      subsection (d)(1) of this section; and
                          (ii) employee contributions that were actually 
                      deducted and withheld from pay under section 8334 
                      or 8422 of title 5, United States Code, during 
                      that period.
                    (B) Agency contributions and payment to the fund.-- 
                <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 9 months after the 
                Government Accountability Office makes the lump-sum 
                payments under subsection (d), the Government 
                Accountability Office shall pay into the Civil Service 
                Retirement and Disability Fund--
                          (i) the amount of each deduction and 
                      withholding under subparagraph (A); and
                          (ii) an amount for applicable agency 
                      contributions under section 8334 or 8423 of title 
                      5, United states Code, based on payments made 
                      under clause (i).

    (g) Exclusive Remedy.--This section constitutes the exclusive remedy 
that any individuals to whom this section applies (as described in 
subsection (a)) have for any claim that they are owed any monies denied 
to them in the form of a pay increase for 2006 or 2007 under section 
732(c)(3) of title 31, United States Code, or any other law. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no court or administrative 
body, including the Government Accountability Office Personnel Appeals 
Board, shall have jurisdiction to entertain any civil action or other 
civil proceeding based on the claim of such individuals that they were 
due money in the form of a pay increase for 2006 or 2007 pursuant to 
such section 732(c)(3) or any other law.

[[Page 122 STAT. 3543]]

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 31 USC 732 note.>> LUMP-SUM PAYMENT FOR CERTAIN 
                    PERFORMANCE-BASED COMPENSATION.

    (a) In General.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Not later than 6 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall, 
subject to the availability of appropriations, pay to each qualified 
individual a lump-sum payment equal to the amount of performance-based 
compensation such individual was denied for 2006, as determined under 
subsection (b).

    (b) Amount.--The amount payable to a qualified individual under this 
section shall be equal to--
            (1) the total amount of performance-based compensation such 
        individual would have earned for 2006 (determined by applying 
        the Government Accountability Office's performance-based 
        compensation system under GAO Orders 2540.3 and 2540.4, as in 
        effect in 2006) if such individual had not had a salary equal to 
        or greater than the maximum for such individual's band (as 
        further described in subsection (c)(2)), less
            (2) the total amount of performance-based compensation such 
        individual was in fact granted, in January 2006, for that year.

    (c) Qualified Individual.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``qualified individual'' means an individual who--
            (1) as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is an 
        officer or employee of the Government Accountability Office, 
        excluding--
                    (A) an individual holding a position subject to 
                section 732a or 733 of title 31, United States Code 
                (disregarding section 732a(b) and 733(c) of such title);
                    (B) a Federal Wage System employee; and
                    (C) an individual participating in a development 
                program under which such individual receives performance 
                appraisals, and is eligible to receive permanent merit 
                pay increases, more than once a year; and
            (2) as of January 22, 2006, was a Band I staff member with a 
        salary above the Band I cap, a Band IIA staff member with a 
        salary above the Band IIA cap, or an administrative professional 
        or support staff member with a salary above the cap for that 
        individual's pay band (determined in accordance with the orders 
        cited in subsection (b)(1)).

    (d) Exclusive Remedy.--This section constitutes the exclusive remedy 
that any officers and employees (as described in subsection (c)) have 
for any claim that they are owed any monies denied to them in the form 
of merit pay for 2006 under section 731(b) of title 31, United States 
Code, or any other law. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
court or administrative body in the United States, including the 
Government Accountability Office Personnel Appeals Board, shall have 
jurisdiction to entertain any civil action or other civil proceeding 
based on the claim of such officers or employees that they were due 
money in the form of merit pay for 2006 pursuant to such section 731(b) 
or any other law.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``performance-based compensation'' has the 
        meaning given such term under the Government Accountability 
        Office's performance-based compensation system under GAO Orders 
        2540.3 and 2540.4, as in effect in 2006; and

[[Page 122 STAT. 3544]]

            (2) the term ``permanent merit pay increase'' means an 
        increase under section 731(b) of title 31, United States Code, 
        in a rate of basic pay.
SEC. 5. INSPECTOR GENERAL.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 7 is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``Sec. 705. Inspector General for the Government Accountability 
                Office

    ``(a) Establishment of Office.--There is established an Office of 
the Inspector General in the Government Accountability Office, to--
            ``(1) conduct and supervise audits consistent with generally 
        accepted government auditing standards and investigations 
        relating to the Government Accountability Office;
            ``(2) provide leadership and coordination and recommend 
        policies, to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in 
        the Government Accountability Office; and
            ``(3) keep the Comptroller General and Congress fully and 
        currently informed concerning fraud and other serious problems, 
        abuses, and deficiencies relating to the administration of 
        programs and operations of the Government Accountability Office.

    ``(b) Appointment, Supervision, and Removal.--
            ``(1) The Office of the Inspector General shall be headed by 
        an Inspector General, who shall be appointed by the Comptroller 
        General without regard to political affiliation and solely on 
        the basis of integrity and demonstrated ability in accounting, 
        auditing, financial analysis, law, management analysis, public 
        administration, or investigations. The Inspector General shall 
        report to, and be under the general supervision of, the 
        Comptroller General.
            ``(2) The Inspector General may be removed from office by 
        the Comptroller General. The Comptroller General shall, promptly 
        upon such removal, communicate in writing the reasons for any 
        such removal to each House of Congress.
            ``(3) The Inspector General shall be paid at an annual rate 
        of pay equal to $5,000 less than the annual rate of pay of the 
        Comptroller General, and may not receive any cash award or 
        bonus, including any award under chapter 45 of title 5.

    ``(c) Authority of Inspector General.--In addition to the authority 
otherwise provided by this section, the Inspector General, in carrying 
out the provisions of this section, may--
            ``(1) have access to all records, reports, audits, reviews, 
        documents, papers, recommendations, or other material that 
        relate to programs and operations of the Government 
        Accountability Office;
            ``(2) make such investigations and reports relating to the 
        administration of the programs and operations of the Government 
        Accountability Office as are, in the judgment of the Inspector 
        General, necessary or desirable;
            ``(3) request such documents and information as may be 
        necessary for carrying out the duties and responsibilities 
        provided by this section from any Federal agency;

[[Page 122 STAT. 3545]]

            ``(4) in the performance of the functions assigned by this 
        section, obtain all information, documents, reports, answers, 
        records, accounts, papers, and other data and documentary 
        evidence from a person not in the United States Government or 
        from a Federal agency, to the same extent and in the same manner 
        as the Comptroller General under the authority and procedures 
        available to the Comptroller General in section 716 of this 
        title;
            ``(5) administer to or take from any person an oath, 
        affirmation, or affidavit, whenever necessary in the performance 
        of the functions assigned by this section, which oath, 
        affirmation, or affidavit when administered or taken by or 
        before an employee of the Office of Inspector General designated 
        by the Inspector General shall have the same force and effect as 
        if administered or taken by or before an officer having a seal;
            ``(6) have direct and prompt access to the Comptroller 
        General when necessary for any purpose pertaining to the 
        performance of functions and responsibilities under this 
        section;
            ``(7) report expeditiously to the Attorney General whenever 
        the Inspector General has reasonable grounds to believe there 
        has been a violation of Federal criminal law; and
            ``(8) provide copies of all reports to the Audit Advisory 
        Committee of the Government Accountability Office and provide 
        such additional information in connection with such reports as 
        is requested by the Committee.

    ``(d) Complaints by Employees.--
            ``(1) The Inspector General--
                    ``(A) subject to subparagraph (B), may receive, 
                review, and investigate, as the Inspector General 
                considers appropriate, complaints or information from an 
                employee of the Government Accountability Office 
                concerning the possible existence of an activity 
                constituting a violation of any law, rule, or 
                regulation, mismanagement, or a gross waste of funds; 
                and
                    ``(B) shall refer complaints or information 
                concerning violations of personnel law, rules, or 
                regulations to established investigative and 
                adjudicative entities of the Government Accountability 
                Office.
            ``(2) The Inspector General shall not, after receipt of a 
        complaint or information from an employee, disclose the identity 
        of the employee without the consent of the employee, unless the 
        Inspector General determines such disclosure is unavoidable 
        during the course of the investigation.
            ``(3) Any employee who has authority to take, direct others 
        to take, recommend, or approve any personnel action, shall not, 
        with respect to such authority, take or threaten to take any 
        action against any employee as a reprisal for making a complaint 
        or disclosing information to the Inspector General, unless the 
        complaint was made or the information disclosed with the 
        knowledge that it was false or with willful disregard for its 
        truth or falsity.

    ``(e) Semiannual Reports.--(1) The Inspector General shall submit 
semiannual reports summarizing the activities of the Office of the 
Inspector General to the Comptroller General. Such reports shall 
include, but need not be limited to--

[[Page 122 STAT. 3546]]

            ``(A) a summary of each significant report made during the 
        reporting period, including a description of significant 
        problems, abuses, and deficiencies disclosed by such report;
            ``(B) a description of the recommendations for corrective 
        action made with respect to significant problems, abuses, or 
        deficiencies described pursuant to subparagraph (A);
            ``(C) a summary of the progress made in implementing such 
        corrective action described pursuant to subparagraph (B); and
            ``(D) information concerning any disagreement the 
        Comptroller General has with a recommendation of the Inspector 
        General.

    ``(2) The Comptroller General shall transmit the semiannual reports 
of the Inspector General, together with any comments the Comptroller 
General considers appropriate, to Congress within 30 days after receipt 
of such reports.
    ``(f) Independence in Carrying Out Duties and Responsibilities.--The 
Comptroller General may not prevent or prohibit the Inspector General 
from carrying out any of the duties or responsibilities of the Inspector 
General under this section.
    ``(g) Authority for Staff.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Inspector General shall select, 
        appoint, and employ (including fixing and adjusting the rates of 
        pay of) such personnel as may be necessary to carry out this 
        section consistent with the provisions of this title governing 
        selections, appointments, and employment (including the fixing 
        and adjusting the rates of pay) in the Government Accountability 
        Office. Such personnel shall be appointed, promoted, and 
        assigned only on the basis of merit and fitness, but without 
        regard to those provisions of title 5 governing appointments and 
        other personnel actions in the competitive service, except that 
        no personnel of the Office may be paid at an annual rate greater 
        than $1,000 less than the annual rate of pay of the Inspector 
        General.
            ``(2) Experts and consultants.--The Inspector General may 
        procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109 
        of title 5 at rates not to exceed the daily equivalent of the 
        annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5315 of such title.
            ``(3) Independence in appointing staff.--No individual may 
        carry out any of the duties or responsibilities of the Office of 
        the Inspector General unless the individual is appointed by the 
        Inspector General, or provides services obtained by the 
        Inspector General, pursuant to this paragraph.
            ``(4) Limitation on program responsibilities.--The Inspector 
        General and any individual carrying out any of the duties or 
        responsibilities of the Office of the Inspector General are 
        prohibited from performing any program responsibilities.

    ``(h) Office Space.--The Comptroller General shall provide the 
Office of the Inspector General--
            ``(1) appropriate and adequate office space;
            ``(2) such equipment, office supplies, and communications 
        facilities and services as may be necessary for the operation of 
        the Office of the Inspector General;
            ``(3) necessary maintenance services for such office space, 
        equipment, office supplies, and communications facilities; and
            ``(4) equipment and facilities located in such office space.

[[Page 122 STAT. 3547]]

    ``(i) Definition.--As used in this section, the term `Federal 
agency' means a department, agency, instrumentality, or unit thereof, of 
the Federal Government.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: 31 USC 705 note.>> Incumbent.--The individual who serves 
in the position of Inspector General of the Government Accountability 
Office on the date of the enactment of this Act shall continue to serve 
in such position subject to removal in accordance with the amendments 
made by this section.

    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 7 is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 704 the 
following:

``705. Inspector General for the Government Accountability Office.''.

SEC. 6. REIMBURSEMENT OF AUDIT COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3521 is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(i)(1) If the Government Accountability Office audits any 
financial statement or related schedule which is prepared under section 
3515 by an executive agency (or component thereof) for a fiscal year 
beginning on or after October 1, 2009, such executive agency (or 
component) shall reimburse the Government Accountability Office for the 
cost of such audit, if the Government Accountability Office audited the 
statement or schedule of such executive agency (or component) for fiscal 
year 2007.
    ``(2) Any executive agency (or component thereof) that prepares a 
financial statement under section 3515 for a fiscal year beginning on or 
after October 1, 2009, and that requests, with the concurrence of the 
Inspector General of such agency, the Government Accountability Office 
to conduct the audit of such statement or any related schedule required 
by section 3521 may reimburse the Government Accountability Office for 
the cost of such audit.
    ``(3) For the audits conducted under paragraphs (1) and (2), the 
Government Accountability Office shall consult prior to the initiation 
of the audit with the relevant executive agency (or component) and the 
Inspector General of such agency on the scope, terms, and cost of such 
audit.
    ``(4) Any reimbursement under paragraph (1) or (2) shall be 
deposited to a special account in the Treasury and shall be available to 
the Government Accountability Office for such purposes and in such 
amounts as are specified in annual appropriations Acts.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.-- <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Section 1401 
of title I of Public Law 108-83 (31 U.S.C. 3523 note) is repealed, 
effective October 1, 2010.
SEC. 7. FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 109(13)(B) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
App.) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by inserting ``(except any officer or 
        employee of the Government Accountability Office)'' after 
        ``legislative branch'', and by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
            (3) by inserting after clause (i) the following:
                    ``(ii) each officer or employee of the Government 
                Accountability Office who, for at least 60 consecutive 
                days, occupies a position for which the rate of basic 
                pay, minus the amount of locality pay that would have 
                been authorized under section 5304 of title 5, United 
                States Code (had

[[Page 122 STAT. 3548]]

                the officer or employee been paid under the General 
                Schedule) for the locality within which the position of 
                such officer or employee is located (as determined by 
                the Comptroller General), is equal to or greater than 
                120 percent of the minimum rate of basic pay payable for 
                GS-15 of the General Schedule; and''.
SEC. 8. HIGHEST BASIC PAY RATE.

    Section 732(c)(2) <<NOTE: 31 USC 732.>> is amended by striking 
``highest basic rate for GS-15;'' and inserting ``rate for level III of 
the Executive Level, except that the total amount of cash compensation 
in any year shall be subject to the limitations provided under section 
5307(a)(1) of title 5;''.
SEC. 9. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 731 is amended--
            (1) by repealing subsection (d);
            (2) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``maximum daily rate for GS-18 under section 5332 of 
                such title'' and inserting ``daily rate for level IV of 
                the Executive Schedule''; and
                    (B) by striking ``more than--'' and all that follows 
                and inserting the following: ``more than 20 experts and 
                consultants may be procured for terms of not more than 3 
                years, but which shall be renewable.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(j) Funds appropriated to the Government Accountability Office for 
salaries and expenses are available for meals and other related 
reasonable expenses incurred in connection with recruitment.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--(1) Section 732a(b) is amended by 
striking ``section 731(d), (e)(1), or (e)(2)'' and inserting ``paragraph 
(1) or (2) of section 731(e)''.
    (2) Section 733(c) is amended by striking ``(d),''.
    (3) Section 735(a) is amended by striking ``731(c)-(e),'' and 
inserting ``731(c) and (e),''.

    Approved September 22, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5683:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 110-671 (Comm. on Oversight and Government Reform).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 154 (2008):
            June 9, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 1, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 9, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>
 