[110th Congress Public Law 259]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ259.110]

[[Page 2429]]

              CONSTANTINO BRUMIDI CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL

[[Page 122 STAT. 2430]]

Public Law 110-259
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To award posthumously a Congressional gold medal to Constantino 
              Brumidi. <<NOTE: July 1, 2008 -  [S. 254]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 
note.>> assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) On July 26, 1805, Constantino Brumidi was born in Rome, 
        Italy of an Italian mother and a Greek father who inspired him 
        with a love of liberty.
            (2) While Constantino Brumidi's Greek ancestry stirred his 
        passion for liberty and citizenship, his Italian heritage 
        provided the art styles of the Renaissance and the Baroque which 
        influenced the artwork of the United States Capitol.
            (3) Constantino Brumidi became a citizen of the United 
        States as soon as he was able, embracing its history, values, 
        and ideals.
            (4) Beginning in 1855, Constantino Brumidi designed and 
        decorated 1 House and 5 Senate committee rooms in the Capitol, 
        as well as the Senate Reception Room, the Office of the Vice 
        President, and, most notably, the President's Room, which 
        represents Brumidi's supreme effort ``to make beautiful the 
        Capitol'' of the United States.
            (5) In 1865, Constantino Brumidi completed in just 11 months 
        his masterpiece, ``The Apotheosis of Washington'', in the eye of 
        the Capitol dome.
            (6) In 1871, Constantino Brumidi created the first tribute 
        to an African American in the Capitol when he placed the figure 
        of Crispus Attucks at the center of his fresco of the Boston 
        Massacre.
            (7) In 1878, Constantino Brumidi, at the age of 72 and in 
        poor health, began work on the Rotunda frieze, which chronicles 
        the history of America.
            (8) On February 19, 1880, Constantino Brumidi died at the 
        age of 74, four and a half months after slipping and nearly 
        falling from a scaffold while working on the Rotunda frieze.
            (9) Constantino Brumidi, proud of his artistic 
        accomplishments and devoted to his adopted country, said, ``My 
        one ambition and my daily prayer is that I may live long enough 
        to make beautiful the Capitol of the one country on earth in 
        which there is liberty.''.
            (10) Constantino Brumidi's life and work exemplify the lives 
        of millions of immigrants who came to pursue the American dream.

[[Page 122 STAT. 2431]]

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--The Speaker of the House of Representatives 
        and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall make 
        appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on 
        behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to 
        Constantino Brumidi, in recognition of his contributions to the 
        Nation.
            (2) Display of medal in capitol visitor center.--The 
        Architect of the Capitol shall arrange for the gold medal 
        presented under this subsection to be displayed in the Capitol 
        Visitor Center, as part of an exhibit honoring Constantino 
        Brumidi.

    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this 
Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with suitable 
emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold 
medal struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the 
Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost 
thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and 
overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.
SEC. 4. STATUS OF MEDALS.

    (a) National Medals.--The medals struck under this Act are national 
medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, 
United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered 
to be numismatic items.
SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO USE FUND AMOUNTS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authority To Use Fund Amounts.--There is authorized to be 
charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund, such 
amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck 
pursuant to this Act.

[[Page 122 STAT. 2432]]

    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals authorized under section 3 shall be deposited into the 
United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved July 1, 2008.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 254:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 153 (2007):
                                    May 21, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 154 (2008):
                                    June 10, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>