[110th Congress Public Law 83]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ083.110]

[[Page 121 STAT. 781]]

Public Law 110-83
110th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To establish a United States-Poland parliamentary youth exchange 
 program, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 20, 2007 -  [S. 377]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: United States- 
Poland Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program Act of 2007. 22 USC 
2452 note.>> assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States-Poland Parliamentary 
Youth Exchange Program Act of 2007''.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States established diplomatic relations with 
        the newly-formed Polish Republic in April 1919.
            (2) The United States and Poland have enjoyed close 
        bilateral relations since 1989.
            (3) Poland became a member of the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization (NATO) in March 1999.
            (4) Poland became a member of the European Union (EU) in May 
        2004.
            (5) Poland has been a strong supporter, both diplomatically 
        and militarily, of efforts led by the United States to combat 
        global terrorism and has contributed troops to the United 
        States-led coalitions in both Afghanistan and Iraq.
            (6) Poland cooperates closely with the United States on such 
        issues as democratization, nuclear proliferation, human rights, 
        regional cooperation in Eastern Europe, and reform of the United 
        Nations.
            (7) The United States and Poland seek to ensure enduring 
        ties between both governments and societies.
            (8) It is important to invest in the youth of the United 
        States and Poland in order to help ensure long-lasting ties 
        between both societies.
            (9) It is in the interest of the United States to preserve a 
        United States presence in Europe and to continue to contribute 
        to the development of transatlantic relationships.
            (10) Poland for many years received international and United 
        States financial assistance and is now determined to invest its 
        own resources toward attaining its shared desire with the United 
        States to develop international cooperation.

[[Page 121 STAT. 782]]

SEC. 3. UNITED STATES-POLAND PARLIAMENTARY YOUTH EXCHANGE PROGRAM.

    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of State, in cooperation with the 
Government of Poland, may establish and carry out a parliamentary 
exchange program for youth of the United States and Poland.
    (b) Designation.--The youth exchange program carried out under this 
subsection shall be known as the ``United States-Poland Parliamentary 
Youth Exchange Program''.
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the youth exchange program is to 
demonstrate to the youth of the United States and Poland the benefits of 
friendly cooperation between the United States and Poland based on 
common political and cultural values.
    (d) Eligible Participants.--An individual is eligible for 
participation in the youth exchange program if the individual--
            (1) is a citizen or national of the United States or of 
        Poland;
            (2) is under the age of 19 years;
            (3) is a student who is enrolled and in good standing at a 
        secondary school in the United States or Poland;
            (4) has been accepted for up to one academic year of study 
        in a program of study abroad approved for credit at such school; 
        and
            (5) meets any other qualifications that the Secretary of 
        State may establish for purposes of the program.

    (e) Program Elements.--Under the youth exchange program, eligible 
participants selected for participation in the program shall--
            (1) live in and attend a public secondary school in the host 
        country for a period of one academic year;
            (2) while attending public school in the host country, 
        undertake academic studies in the host country, with particular 
        emphasis on the history, constitution, and political development 
        of the host country;
            (3) be eligible, either during or after the completion of 
        such academic studies, for an internship in an appropriate 
        position in the host country; and
            (4) engage in such other activities as the President 
        considers appropriate to achieve the purpose of the program.
SEC. 4. ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    The Secretary of State shall submit to the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives an annual report on the United States-Poland 
Parliamentary Youth Exchange Program established under this Act. Each 
annual report shall include--
            (1) information on the implementation of the Program during 
        the preceding year;
            (2) the number of participants in the Program during such 
        year;
            (3) the names and locations of the secondary schools in the 
        United States and Poland attended by such participants;
            (4) a description of the areas of study of such participants 
        during their participation in the Program;
            (5) a description of any internships taken by such 
        participants during their participation in the Program; and
            (6) a description of any other activities such participants 
        carried out during their participation in the Program.

[[Page 121 STAT. 783]]

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of State for fiscal year 2008 such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out the youth exchange program authorized by this Act.
    (b) Availability.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.

    Approved September 20, 2007.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 377:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 110-33 (Comm. on Foreign Relations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 153 (2007):
            Mar. 15, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 5, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>