[116th Congress Public Law 135]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 277]]

   TAIWAN ALLIES INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT INITIATIVE 
                          (TAIPEI) ACT OF 2019

[[Page 134 STAT. 278]]

Public Law 116-135
116th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To express United States support for Taiwan's diplomatic alliances 
         around the world. <<NOTE: Mar. 26, 2020 -  [S. 1678]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Taiwan Allies 
International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 
2019.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Taiwan Allies International 
Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019''.
SEC. 2. DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH TAIWAN.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 (Public Law 96-8) 
        states that it is the policy of the United States ``to preserve 
        and promote extensive, close, and friendly commercial, cultural, 
        and other relations between the people of the United States and 
        the people on Taiwan''.
            (2) The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 states that it is the 
        policy of the United States ``to maintain the capacity of the 
        United States to resist any resort to force or other forms of 
        coercion that would jeopardize the security, or the social or 
        economic system, of the people on Taiwan''.
            (3) Taiwan is a free, democratic, and prosperous nation of 
        23,000,000 people and an important contributor to peace and 
        stability around the world.
            (4) Since the election of President Tsai Ing-wen as 
        President of Taiwan in 2016, the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China has intensified its efforts to pressure 
        Taiwan.
            (5) Since 2016, the Gambia, Sao Tome and Principe, Panama, 
        the Dominican Republic, Burkina Faso, El Salvador, the Solomon 
        Islands, and Kiribati have severed diplomatic relations with 
        Taiwan in favor of diplomatic relations with China.
            (6) Taiwan currently maintains full diplomatic relations 
        with 15 nations around the world.
            (7) Taiwan's unique relationship with the United States, 
        Australia, India, Japan, and other countries are of significant 
        benefit in strengthening Taiwan's economy and preserving its 
        international space.
            (8) According to President Tsai Ing-wen, the severance of 
        diplomatic ties with Taiwan in favor of diplomatic relations 
        with China is ``part of a series of diplomatic and military acts 
        of coercion'' by China.
            (9) The Asia Reassurance Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 
        115-409) states that--

[[Page 134 STAT. 279]]

                    (A) it is United States policy ``to support the 
                close economic, political, and security relationship 
                between Taiwan and the United States''; and
                    (B) the President should--
                          (i) ``conduct regular transfers of defense 
                      articles to Taiwan that are tailored to meet the 
                      existing and likely future threats from the 
                      People's Republic of China, including supporting 
                      the efforts of Taiwan to develop and integrate 
                      asymmetric capabilities, as appropriate, including 
                      mobile, survivable, and cost-effective 
                      capabilities, into its military forces''; and
                          (ii) ``encourage the travel of high-level 
                      United States officials to Taiwan, in accordance 
                      with the Taiwan Travel Act''.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TRADE AND ECONOMIC RELATIONS WITH 
                    TAIWAN.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States and Taiwan have built a strong 
        economic partnership, with the United States now Taiwan's second 
        largest trading partner and with Taiwan the 11th largest trading 
        partner of the United States and a key destination for United 
        States agricultural exports;
            (2) strong United States-Taiwan economic relations have been 
        a positive factor in stimulating economic growth and job 
        creation for the people of both the United States and Taiwan; 
        and
            (3) the United States Trade Representative should consult 
        with Congress on opportunities for further strengthening 
        bilateral trade and economic relations between the United States 
        and Taiwan.
SEC. 4. POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES WITH REGARD TO TAIWAN'S 
                    PARTICIPATION IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.

    It should be the policy of the United States--
            (1) to advocate, as appropriate--
                    (A) for Taiwan's membership in all international 
                organizations in which statehood is not a requirement 
                and in which the United States is also a participant; 
                and
                    (B) for Taiwan to be granted observer status in 
                other appropriate international organizations;
            (2) to instruct, as appropriate, representatives of the 
        United States Government in all organizations described in 
        paragraph (1) to use the voice, vote, and influence of the 
        United States to advocate for Taiwan's membership or observer 
        status in such organizations; and
            (3) for the President or the President's designees to 
        advocate, as appropriate, for Taiwan's membership or observer 
        status in all organizations described in paragraph (1) as part 
        of any relevant bilateral engagements between the United States 
        and the People's Republic of China, including leader summits and 
        the U.S.-China Comprehensive Economic Dialogue.
SEC. 5. STRENGTHENING OF TIES WITH TAIWAN.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States Government should--

[[Page 134 STAT. 280]]

            (1) support Taiwan in strengthening its official diplomatic 
        relationships as well as other partnerships with countries in 
        the Indo-Pacific region and around the world;
            (2) consider, in certain cases as appropriate and in 
        alignment with United States interests, increasing its economic, 
        security, and diplomatic engagement with nations that have 
        demonstrably strengthened, enhanced, or upgraded relations with 
        Taiwan; and
            (3) consider, in certain cases as appropriate, in alignment 
        with United States foreign policy interests and in consultation 
        with Congress, altering its economic, security, and diplomatic 
        engagement with nations that take serious or significant actions 
        to undermine the security or prosperity of Taiwan.

    (b) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  Report.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for five 
years, the Secretary of State shall report to the appropriate 
congressional committees on the steps taken in accordance with 
subsection (a).

    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
        of Representatives.

    Approved March 26, 2020.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1678:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 165 (2019):
                                    Oct. 29, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 166 (2020):
                                    Mar. 3, 4, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    Mar. 11, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>