[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 401 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.J.Res. 401

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  Designating the months of March 1995 and March 1996 as ``Irish-
American Heritage Month''.

Whereas 150 years ago, the blight that struck Ireland's potato crop 
  (``the single root that changed the history of the world''), known as 
  the Great Famine, caused 2,000,000 of Ireland's population to 
  emigrate, mostly to America's shores;
Whereas in 1847 alone, 25,000 Irish immigrants arrived in Boston;
Whereas by 1851, the end of the famine exodus, 1,712 emigrant ships had 
  sailed up the Narrows into New York harbor;
Whereas during the ``Great Hunger'' (1845-1851) more people left 
  Ireland than had emigrated in the previous 250 years;
Whereas within a few years of their arrival in the United States, these 
  Irish immigrants took jobs as laborers, built railroads, canals, and 
  schools, dedicated themselves to help build this Nation, and this 
  same legacy remains a part of today's American mainstream;
Whereas James Smith, George Taylor, Matthew Thornton, and Charles 
  Thomson, 4 of the individuals who signed the Declaration of 
  Independence, were Irish born and 9 other signers were of Irish 
  ancestry;
Whereas Irish-born James Hoban designed and supervised the building of 
  the White House and its restoration after it was burned in 1814;
Whereas more than 200 Irish-Americans have been awarded the 
  Congressional Medal of Honor;
Whereas 19 Presidents of the United States proudly claim Irish 
  heritage, included among them, the first President, George 
  Washington;
Whereas John W. O'Beirne, Founder of the American Foundation for Irish 
  Heritage, first requested in 1990 that Congress designate March as 
  ``Irish-American Heritage Month''; and
Whereas the 44,000,000 Americans of Irish ancestry, like their 
  forebears, continue to enrich all aspects of life in the United 
  States, in science, education, art, agriculture, business, industry, 
  literature, music, athletics, military and governmental service: Now, 
  therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the months of March 1995 
and March 1996 are designated as ``Irish-American Heritage Month''. The 
President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation calling 
upon the people of the United States to observe these months with 
appropriate ceremonies and activities.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.