[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.J. Res. 267 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.J.Res. 267
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1994, and for 
other purposes.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are 
hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, 
receipts, and funds, for the several departments, agencies, 
corporations, and other organizational units of Government for the 
fiscal year 1994, and for other purposes, namely:
    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority 
and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal 
year 1993 for continuing projects or activities including the costs of 
direct loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically provided 
for in this joint resolution) which were conducted in the fiscal year 
1993 and for which appropriations, funds, or other authority would be 
available in the following appropriations Acts:
        The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug 
    Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, 
    and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994, notwithstanding 
    section 15 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 and 
    section 701 of the United States Information and Educational 
    Exchange Act of 1948;
        The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1994, 
    notwithstanding section 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 
    1947;
        The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and 
    Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies 
    Appropriations Act, 1994;
        The Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government 
    Appropriations Act, 1994; and
        The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban 
    Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994:
Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted in these Acts is greater than that 
which would be available or granted under current operations, the 
pertinent project or activity shall be continued at a rate for 
operations not exceeding the current rate.
    (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted under an Act listed in this section as 
passed by the House as of October 1, 1993, is different from that which 
would be available or granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as 
of October 1, 1993, the pertinent project or activity shall be continued 
at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate 
permitted by the action of the House or the Senate, whichever is lower, 
and under the authority and conditions provided in applicable 
appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1993: Provided, That where an 
item is included in only one version of an Act as passed by both Houses 
as of October 1, 1993, the pertinent project or activity shall be 
continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the one 
House, but at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or 
the rate permitted by the action of the one House, whichever is lower, 
and under the authority and conditions provided in applicable 
appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1993.
    (c) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only 
the House as of October 1, 1993, the pertinent project or activity shall 
be continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the 
House, at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the 
rate permitted by the action of the House, whichever is lower, and under 
the authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts 
for the fiscal year 1993: Provided, That where an item is funded in 
applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1993 and not included 
in the version passed by the House as of October 1, 1993, the pertinent 
project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation, fund, or 
authority granted by applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 
1993 at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate and under 
the authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts 
for the fiscal year 1993.
    (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the amount 
which would otherwise be made available or the authority which would 
otherwise be granted under subsection (a), (b), or (c) for civilian 
personnel compensation and benefits in each department and agency shall 
be no higher than the amount or authority necessary to support the 
personnel level resulting from an overall fiscal year 1993 personnel 
reduction of 1 percent from each department or agency's base level of 
full-time equivalent employment consistent with 1993 enacted 
appropriations, pursuant to Executive Order 12839, issued February 10, 
1993.
    Sec. 102. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be 
used for new production of items not funded for production in fiscal 
year 1993 or prior years, for the increase in production rates above 
those sustained with fiscal year 1993 funds, or to initiate, resume, or 
continue any project, activity, operation, or organization which are 
defined as any project, subproject, activity, budget activity, program 
element, and subprogram within a program element and for investment 
items are further defined as a P-1 line item in a budget activity within 
an appropriation account and an R-1 line item which includes a program 
element and subprogram element within an appropriation account, for 
which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available 
during the fiscal year 1993: Provided, That no appropriation or funds 
made available or authority granted pursuant to section 101 for the 
Department of Defense shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements 
utilizing advance procurement funding for economic order quantity 
procurement unless specifically appropriated later.
    Sec. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.
    Sec. 104. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during the fiscal year 1993.
    Sec. 105. No provision which is included in an appropriations Act 
enumerated in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 1993 and which by its terms is 
applicable to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority shall be 
applicable to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this 
joint resolution.
    Sec. 106. Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or 
in the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made 
available and authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be available until (a) enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
project or activity provided for in this joint resolution, or (b) the 
enactment of the applicable appropriations Act by both Houses without 
any provision for such project or activity, or (c) October 21, 1993, 
whichever first occurs.
    Sec. 107. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
joint resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred 
for any program, project, or activity during the period for which funds 
or authority for such project or activity are available under this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 108. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall 
be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization 
whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 109. No provision in any appropriations Act for the fiscal year 
1994 referred to in section 101 of this joint resolution that makes the 
availability of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the 
enactment of additional authorizing or other legislation shall be 
effective before the date set forth in section 106(c) of this joint 
resolution.
    Sec. 110. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority 
granted pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to 
the time limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set 
forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing 
herein shall be construed to waive any other provision of law governing 
the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, activities funded in the Council on 
Environmental Quality and Office of Environmental Quality account shall 
be maintained at the current rate of operations.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint 
resolution, except section 106, activities funded in the Selective 
Service System, Salaries and expenses account shall be maintained at the 
current rate of operations.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.