[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4455 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4455

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States to provide 
financing for the export of nonlethal defense articles and defense 
services the primary end use of which will be for civilian purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FINANCING FOR THE EXPORT OF NONLETHAL 
DEFENSE ARTICLES OR SERVICES THE PRIMARY END USE OF WHICH WILL BE FOR 
CIVILIAN PURPOSES.
    (a) In General.--Section 2(b)(6) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 
1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(I)(i) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a transaction 
involving defense articles or services if--
        ``(I) the Bank determines that--
            ``(aa) the defense articles or services are nonlethal; and
            ``(bb) the primary end use of the defense articles or 
        services will be for civilian purposes; and
        ``(II) at least 15 calendar days before the date on which the 
    Board of Directors of the Bank gives final approval to Bank 
    participation in the transaction, the Bank provides notice of the 
    transaction to the Committees on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs 
    and on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
    Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and on 
    Appropriations of the Senate.
    ``(ii) Not more than 10 percent of the loan, guarantee, and 
insurance authority available to the Bank for a fiscal year may be used 
by the Bank to support the sale of defense articles or services to 
which subparagraph (A) does not apply by reason of clause (i) of this 
subparagraph.
    ``(iii) Not later than September 1 of each fiscal year, the 
Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the 
Bank, shall submit to the Committees on Banking, Finance and Urban 
Affairs and on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committees on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and on Appropriations 
of the Senate a report on the end uses of any defense articles or 
services described in clause (i) with respect to which the Bank 
provided support during the second preceding fiscal year.''.
    (b) Report to the Congress.--Section 2(b)(6)(H) of the Export-
Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)(H)) is amended by 
inserting ``or described in subparagraph (I)(i)'' before the period at 
the end of the first sentence.
    (c) Period of Effectiveness.--The amendments made by this section 
shall remain in effect during the period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 1997.
SEC. 2. PROMOTION OF EXPORTS OF ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL GOODS AND 
SERVICES.
    (a) In General.--The first section 11(b) of the Export-Import Bank 
Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635i-5(b)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting before ``The Bank shall'' the following:
        ``(1) In general.--'';
        (2) in the first sentence, by inserting before the period 
    ``(such as exports of products and services used to aid in the 
    monitoring, abatement, control, or prevention of air, water, and 
    ground contaminants or pollution, or which provide protection in 
    the handling of toxic substances, subject to a final determination 
    by the Bank, and products and services for foreign environmental 
    projects dedicated entirely to the prevention, control, or cleanup 
    of air, water, or ground pollution, including facilities to provide 
    for control or cleanup, and used in the retrofitting of facility 
    equipment for the sole purpose of mitigating, controlling, or 
    preventing adverse environmental effects, subject to a final 
    determination by the Bank)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Limitations on authorization of appropriations.--In 
    addition to other funds available to support the export of goods 
    and services described in paragraph (1), there are authorized to be 
    appropriated to the Bank not more than $35,000,000 for the cost (as 
    defined in section 502(5) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990) 
    of supporting such exports. If, in any fiscal year, the funds 
    appropriated in accordance with this paragraph are not fully 
    utilized due to insufficient qualified transactions for the export 
    of such goods and services, such funds may be expended for other 
    purposes eligible for support by the Bank.''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 
U.S.C. 635 et seq.) is amended by redesignating the second section 11 
(12 U.S.C. 635i-8) as section 14.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.