[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4361 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4361

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, to provide that an 
employee of the Federal Government may use sick leave to attend to the 
medical needs of a family member, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Employees Family Friendly 
Leave Act''.
SEC. 2. USE OF SICK LEAVE FOR PURPOSES RELATING TO A FAMILY MEMBER.
    Section 6307 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(d)(1) For the purpose of this subsection, the term `family 
member' shall have such meaning as the Office of Personnel Management 
shall by regulation prescribe, except that such term shall include any 
individual who meets the definition given that term, for purposes of 
the leave transfer program under subchapter III, under regulations 
prescribed by the Office (as in effect on January 1, 1993).
    ``(2) Subject to paragraph (3) and in addition to any other 
allowable purpose, sick leave may be used by an employee--
        ``(A) to give care or otherwise attend to a family member 
    having an illness, injury, or other condition which, if an employee 
    had such condition, would justify the use of sick leave by such an 
    employee; or
        ``(B) for purposes relating to the death of a family member, 
    including to make arrangements for or attend the funeral of such 
    family member.
    ``(3)(A) Sick leave may be used by an employee for the purposes 
provided under paragraph (2) only to the extent the amount used for 
such purposes does not exceed--
        ``(i) 40 hours in any year, plus
        ``(ii) up to an additional 64 hours in any year, but only to 
    the extent the use of such additional hours does not cause the 
    amount of sick leave to the employee's credit to fall below 80 
    hours.
    ``(B) In the case of a part-time employee or an employee on an 
uncommon tour of duty, the Office of Personnel Management shall 
establish limitations that are proportional to those prescribed under 
subparagraph (A).
    ``(4)(A) This subsection shall be effective during the 3-year 
period that begins upon the expiration of the 2-month period that 
begins on the date of the enactment of this subsection.
    ``(B) Not later than 6 months before the date on which this 
subsection is scheduled to cease to be effective, the Office shall 
submit a report to Congress in which it shall evaluate the operation of 
this subsection and make recommendations as to whether or not this 
subsection should be continued beyond such date.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.