[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 490 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.490
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for the conveyance of certain lands and improvements in 
Washington, District of Columbia, to the Columbia Hospital for Women to 
provide a site for the construction of a facility to house the National 
Women's Health Resource Center.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND.

    (a) Administrator of General Services.--Subject to sections 2 and 4, 
the Administrator of General Services (hereinafter in this Act referred 
to as the ``Administrator'') shall convey, for $12,800,000 to be paid in 
accordance with the terms set forth in subsection (d)(2) and other 
consideration required by this Act, to the Columbia Hospital for Women 
(formerly Columbia Hospital for Women and Lying-in Asylum; hereinafter 
in this Act referred to as ``Columbia Hospital''), located in 
Washington, District of Columbia, all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to those pieces or parcels of land in the District 
of Columbia, described in subsection (b), together with all improvements 
thereon and appurtenances thereto. The purpose of the conveyance is to 
provide a site for the construction by Columbia Hospital of a facility 
to house the National Women's Health Resource Center (hereinafter in 
this Act referred to as the ``Resource Center''), as described in the 
Certificate of Need issued for the Resource Center in conformance with 
District of Columbia law and in effect on the date of conveyance.
    (b) Property Description.--The land referred to in subsection (a) 
was conveyed to the United States of America by deed dated May 2, 1888, 
from David Fergusson, widower, recorded in liber 1314, folio 102, of the 
land records of the District of Columbia, and is that portion of square 
numbered 25 in the city of Washington in the District of Columbia which 
was not previously conveyed to such hospital by the Act of June 28, 1952 
(Public Law 82-423). Such property is more particularly described as 
square 25, lot 803, or as follows: all that piece or parcel of land 
situated and lying in the city of Washington in the District of Columbia 
and known as part of square numbered 25, as laid down and distinguished 
on the plat or plan of said city as follows: beginning for the same at 
the northeast corner of the square being the corner formed by the 
intersection of the west line of Twenty-fourth Street Northwest, with 
the south line of north M Street Northwest and running thence south with 
the line of said Twenty-fourth Street Northwest for the distance of two 
hundred and thirty-one feet ten inches, thence running west and parallel 
with said M Street Northwest for the distance of two hundred and thirty 
feet six inches and running thence north and parallel with the line of 
said Twenty-fourth Street Northwest for the distance of two hundred and 
thirty-one feet ten inches to the line of said M Street Northwest and 
running thence east with the line of said M Street Northwest to the 
place of beginning two hundred and thirty feet and six inches together 
with all the improvements, ways, easements, rights, privileges, and 
appurtenances to the same belonging or in anywise appertaining.
    (c) Date of Conveyance.--
        (1) Date.--The date of the conveyance of property required under 
    subsection (a) shall be the date which is 1 year after the date of 
    receipt by the Administrator of written notification from Columbia 
    Hospital that the hospital needs such property for use as a site to 
    provide housing for the Resource Center.
        (2) Deadline for submission of notification.--A written 
    notification of need from Columbia Hospital shall not be effective 
    for purposes of subsection (a) and paragraph (1) unless the 
    notification is received by the Administrator before the date which 
    is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Conveyance Terms.--
        (1) In general.--The conveyance of property required under 
    subsection (a) shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may 
    be determined by the Administrator to be necessary to safeguard the 
    interests of the United States. Such terms and conditions shall be 
    consistent with the terms and conditions set forth in this Act.
        (2) Payment of purchase price.--Columbia Hospital shall pay the 
    $12,800,000 purchase price in full by not later than the date of 
    conveyance under subsection (c).
        (3) Quitclaim deed.--Any conveyance of property to Columbia 
    Hospital under this Act shall be by quitclaim deed.
    (e) Treatment of Amounts Received.--Amounts received by the United 
States as payment under this Act shall be paid into, administered, and 
expended as part of the fund established by section 210(f) of the 
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 
490(f)).

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON CONVEYANCE.

    No part of any land conveyed under section 1 may be used, during the 
30-year period beginning on the date of conveyance under section 
1(c)(1), for any purpose other than to provide a site for a facility to 
house the Resource Center and any necessary related appurtenances to 
that facility.

SEC. 3. SATELLITE HEALTH CENTERS.

    (a) Requirement.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 4 years after the date of the 
    conveyance under section 1, Columbia Hospital, after consultation 
    with the District of Columbia Commission of Public Health and the 
    District of Columbia State Health Planning and Development Agency, 
    shall establish, maintain, and operate 3 satellite health centers.
        (2) Persons to be served.--One of the satellite health centers 
    shall provide comprehensive health and counseling services 
    exclusively for teenage women and their children. The other 2 
    satellite health centers shall provide comprehensive health and 
    counseling services for women (including teenage women) and their 
    children.
        (3) Location.--The satellite health centers shall be located in 
    areas of the District of Columbia in which the District of Columbia 
    Department of Public Health has determined that the need for 
    comprehensive health and counseling services provided by the centers 
    is the greatest. In locating such centers, special consideration 
    shall be given to the areas of the District with the highest rates 
    of infant death and births by teenagers.
    (b) Comprehensive Health and Counseling Services.--In subsection 
(a), comprehensive health and counseling services include--
        (1) examination of women;
        (2) medical treatment and counseling of women, including 
    prenatal and postnatal services;
        (3) treatment and counseling of substance abusers and those who 
    are at risk of substance abuse;
        (4) health promotion and disease prevention services;
        (5) physician and hospital referral services; and
        (6) extended and flexible hours of service.
    (c) Required Consideration.--The establishment, operation, and 
maintenance of satellite health centers by Columbia Hospital in 
accordance with this section shall be part of the consideration required 
by this Act for the conveyance under section 1.

SEC. 4. REVERSIONARY INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--The property conveyed under section 1 shall revert 
to the United States--
        (1) on the date which is 4 years after the date of such 
    conveyance if Columbia Hospital is not operating the Resource Center 
    on such property; and
        (2) on any date in the 30-year period beginning on the date of 
    such conveyance, on which the property is used for a purpose other 
    than that referred to in section 2.
    (b) Repayment.--If property reverts to the United States under 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall pay to Columbia Hospital, from 
amounts otherwise appropriated from the fund established by section 
210(f) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 
(40 U.S.C. 490(f)), an amount equal to all sums received by the United 
States as payments for the conveyance under section 1, without interest 
on such amount.
    (c) Enforcing Reversion.--The Administrator shall perform all acts 
necessary to enforce any reversion of property to the United States 
under this section.
    (d) Inventory of Public Buildings Service.--Property that reverts to 
the United States under this section--
        (1) shall be under the control of the General Services 
    Administration; and
        (2) shall be assigned by the Administrator to the inventory of 
    the Public Buildings Service.

SEC. 5. DAMAGES.

    (a) Damages.--Subject to subsection (b), for each year in the 26-
year period beginning on the date which is 4 years after the date of 
conveyance under section 1(c)(1), in which Columbia Hospital does not 
operate 3 satellite health centers in accordance with section 3 for a 
period of more than 60 days, the Columbia Hospital shall be liable to 
the United States for damages in an amount equal to $200,000, except 
that this subsection shall not apply after the date of any reversion of 
property under section 4.
    (b) Limitation in Damages.--The maximum amount of damages for which 
Columbia Hospital may be liable under this section shall be $3,000,000.
    (c) Adjustments for Inflation.--The amount of damages specified in 
subsection (a) and the maximum amount of damages specified in subsection 
(b) shall be adjusted biennially to reflect changes in the consumer 
price index that have occurred since the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Assessment and Waiver.--For any failure by Columbia Hospital to 
operate a satellite health center in accordance with section 3, the 
Administrator may--
        (1) seek to recover damages under this section; or
        (2) waive all or any part of damages recoverable under this 
    section for that failure, if the Administrator--
            (A) determines the failure is caused by exceptional 
        circumstances; and
            (B) submits a statement to the District of Columbia 
        Commission of Public Health and the Congress, that sets forth 
        the reasons for the determination.
    (e) Conveyance Documents.--The Administrator shall include in the 
documents for any conveyance under this Act appropriate provisions to--
        (1) ensure that payment of damages under this section is a 
    contractual obligation of Columbia Hospital; and
        (2) require the Administrator to provide to Columbia Hospital 
    notice and an opportunity to respond before the Administrator seeks 
    to recover such damages.

SEC. 6. REPORTS.

    During the 5-year period beginning one year after the date of the 
conveyance under section 1, Columbia Hospital shall submit to the 
Administrator, the appropriate committees of the Congress, and the 
Comptroller General of the United States annual reports on the 
establishment, maintenance, and operation of the Resource Center and the 
satellite health centers.

SEC. 7. MEMBER INSTITUTES.

    The Resource Center should--
        (1) include among its outreach activities the establishment of 
    formal linkages with no less than 6 universities or health centers 
    throughout the Nation, to be known as ``member institutes'' in 
    furtherance of the purposes of the Resource Center; and
        (2) provide national notice of the opportunity such entities 
    have to participate in programs and activities of the Resource 
    Center.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.