[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2135 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2135

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for a National Native American Veterans' Memorial.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Native American Veterans' Memorial 
Establishment Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
        (1) Native Americans across the Nation--Indians, Native 
    Alaskans, and Native Hawaiians--have a long, proud and 
    distinguished tradition of service in the Armed Forces of the 
    United States.
        (2) Native Americans have historically served in the Armed 
    Forces of the United States in numbers which far exceed their 
    representation in the population of the United States.
        (3) Native American veterans count among themselves a number of 
    Medal of Honor recipients. Their numbers are also conspicuous in 
    the ranks of those who have received other decorations for valor 
    and distinguished service.
        (4) Native Americans have lost their lives in the service of 
    their Nation and in the cause of peace.
        (5) The National Museum of the American Indian was established 
    as a living memorial to Native Americans. Its mission is to advance 
    knowledge and understanding of Native American cultures, including 
    art, history, language, and the contributions Native Americans have 
    made to our society.
        (6) The National Museum of the American Indian is an 
    extraordinary site and an ideal location to establish a National 
    Native American Veterans' Memorial.
        (7) A National Native American Veterans' Memorial would further 
    the purposes of the National Museum of the American Indian by 
    giving all Americans the opportunity to learn of the proud and 
    courageous tradition of service of Native Americans in the Armed 
    Forces of the United States.

SEC. 3. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.

    (a) In General.--The National Museum of the American Indian 
(established by the National Museum of the American Indian Act (20 
U.S.C. 80q et seq.)), in close consultation with the National Congress 
of American Indians and other Native American groups, is authorized to 
construct and maintain a National Native American Veterans' Memorial 
(hereafter in this Act referred to as the ``memorial'').
    (b) Location.--The memorial shall be located at a site determined 
to be suitable by the Museum within the interior structure of the 
facility provided for by section 7(a) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 80q-5(a)) 
(relating to housing the portion of the Museum to be located in the 
District of Columbia).
    (c) Design and Plans.--(1) The National Congress of American 
Indians, in consultation with the Museum, is authorized to hold a 
competition to select the design of the Memorial. Any design so 
selected shall be compatible with both the purpose of the Museum, as 
set forth in section 3(b) of the National Museum of the American Indian 
Act (20 U.S.C. 80q-1), and with any existing design plans for the 
Museum's structure and its surroundings.
    (2) Any design so selected shall be subject to the approval of the 
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.

SEC. 4. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES AND USE OF NAME.

    (a) Responsibility of National Congress of American Indians.--The 
National Congress of American Indians shall be solely responsible for 
acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
establishment of the memorial. No Federal funds may be used to pay any 
expense of the establishment of the memorial.
    (b) Use of Name.--Use of the name of the Smithsonian Institution or 
the National Museum of the American Indian in any material regarding 
the memorial produced by the National Congress of American Indians, 
other than in a manner simply describing the location of the memorial, 
shall be subject to consultation with, and the approval of, the Board 
of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.