[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2010 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2010
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the National and Community Service Act of 1990 to establish a 
Corporation for National Service, enhance opportunities for national 
service, and provide national service educational awards to persons 
participating in such service, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National and 
Community Service Trust Act of 1993''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purpose.

                TITLE I--PROGRAMS AND RELATED PROVISIONS

                          Subtitle A--Programs

Sec. 101. Federal investment in support of national service.
Sec. 102. National Service Trust and provision of national service 
          educational awards.
Sec. 103. School-based and community-based service-learning programs.
Sec. 104. Quality and innovation activities.
Sec. 105. Public Lands Corps.
Sec. 106. Urban Youth Corps.

                     Subtitle B--Related Provisions

Sec. 111. Definitions.
Sec. 112. Authority to make State grants.
Sec. 113. Family and medical leave.
Sec. 114. Reports.
Sec. 115. Nondiscrimination.
Sec. 116. Notice, hearing, and grievance procedures.
Sec. 117. Nondisplacement.
Sec. 118. Evaluation.
Sec. 119. Engagement of participants.
Sec. 120. Contingent extension.
Sec. 121. Audits.
Sec. 122. Repeals.
Sec. 123. Effective date.

                         TITLE II--ORGANIZATION

Sec. 201. State Commissions on National and Community Service.
Sec. 202. Interim authorities of the Corporation for National and 
          Community Service and ACTION Agency.
Sec. 203. Final authorities of the Corporation for National and 
          Community Service.
Sec. 204. Business plan.
Sec. 205. Actions under the national service laws to be subject to the 
          availability of appropriations.

                       TITLE III--REAUTHORIZATION

         Subtitle A--National and Community Service Act of 1990

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

           Subtitle B--Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973

Sec. 311. Short title; references.

            Chapter 1--VISTA and Other Anti-poverty Programs

Sec. 321. Purpose of the VISTA program.
Sec. 322. Assistant director for VISTA program.
Sec. 323. Selection and assignment of VISTA volunteers.
Sec. 324. Terms and periods of service.
Sec. 325. Support for VISTA volunteers.
Sec. 326. Participation of younger and older persons.
Sec. 327. Literacy activities.
Sec. 328. Applications for assistance.
Sec. 329. Repeal of authority for student community service programs.
Sec. 330. University Year for VISTA.
Sec. 331. Authority to establish and operate special volunteer and 
          demonstration programs.
Sec. 332. Technical and financial assistance.
Sec. 333. Elimination of separate authority for drug abuse programs.

               Chapter 2--National Senior Volunteer Corps

Sec. 341. National Senior Volunteer Corps.
Sec. 342. The Retired and Senior Volunteer Program.
Sec. 343. Operation of the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program.
Sec. 344. Services under the Foster Grandparent Program.
Sec. 345. Stipends for low-income volunteers.
Sec. 346. Conditions of grants and contracts.
Sec. 347. Evaluation of the Senior Companion Program.
Sec. 348. Agreements with other Federal agencies.
Sec. 349. Programs of national significance.
Sec. 350. Adjustments to Federal financial assistance.
Sec. 351. Demonstration programs.

                        Chapter 3--Administration

Sec. 361. Purpose of agency.
Sec. 362. Authority of the Director.
Sec. 363. Political activities.
Sec. 364. Compensation for volunteers.
Sec. 365. Repeal of report.
Sec. 366. Application of Federal law.
Sec. 367. Nondiscrimination provisions.
Sec. 368. Elimination of separate requirements for setting regulations.
Sec. 369. Clarification of role of Inspector General.
Sec. 370. Copyright protection.
Sec. 371. Deposit requirement credit for service as a volunteer.

     Chapter 4--Authorization of Appropriations and Other Amendments

Sec. 381. Authorization of appropriations for title I.
Sec. 382. Authorization of appropriations for title II.
Sec. 383. Authorization of appropriations for title IV.
Sec. 384. Conforming amendments; compensation for VISTA FECA claimants.
Sec. 385. Repeal of authority.

                      Chapter 5--General Provisions

Sec. 391. Technical and conforming amendments.
Sec. 392. Effective date.

              TITLE IV--TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

Sec. 401. Definitions.
Sec. 402. References to the Commission on National and Community 
          Service.
Sec. 403. References to Directors of the Commission on National and 
          Community Service.
Sec. 404. Definition of Director.
Sec. 405. References to ACTION and the ACTION Agency.
Sec. 406. Effective date.

                    TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 501. Compliance with Buy American Act.
Sec. 502. Sense of Congress; requirement regarding notice.
Sec. 503. Prohibition of contracts with persons falsely labeling 
          products as made in America.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) In General.--Section 2 of the National and Community Service Act 
of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    ``(a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
        ``(1) Throughout the United States, there are pressing unmet 
    human, educational, environmental, and public safety needs.
        ``(2) Americans desire to affirm common responsibilities and 
    shared values, and join together in positive experiences, that 
    transcend race, religion, gender, age, disability, region, income, 
    and education.
        ``(3) The rising costs of postsecondary education are putting 
    higher education out of reach for an increasing number of citizens.
        ``(4) Americans of all ages can improve their communities and 
    become better citizens through service to the United States.
        ``(5) Nonprofit organizations, local governments, States, and 
    the Federal Government are already supporting a wide variety of 
    national service programs that deliver needed services in a cost-
    effective manner.
        ``(6) Residents of low-income communities, especially youth and 
    young adults, can be empowered through their service, and can help 
    provide future community leadership.
    ``(b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this Act to--
        ``(1) meet the unmet human, educational, environmental, and 
    public safety needs of the United States, without displacing 
    existing workers;
        ``(2) renew the ethic of civic responsibility and the spirit of 
    community throughout the United States;
        ``(3) expand educational opportunity by rewarding individuals 
    who participate in national service with an increased ability to 
    pursue higher education or job training;
        ``(4) encourage citizens of the United States, regardless of 
    age, income, or disability, to engage in full-time or part-time 
    national service;
        ``(5) reinvent government to eliminate duplication, support 
    locally established initiatives, require measurable goals for 
    performance, and offer flexibility in meeting those goals;
        ``(6) expand and strengthen existing service programs with 
    demonstrated experience in providing structured service 
    opportunities with visible benefits to the participants and 
    community;
        ``(7) build on the existing organizational service 
    infrastructure of Federal, State, and local programs and agencies to 
    expand full-time and part-time service opportunities for all 
    citizens; and
        ``(8) provide tangible benefits to the communities in which 
    national service is performed.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 2 and inserting the following new 
item:
``Sec. 2. Findings and purpose.''.
                TITLE I--PROGRAMS AND RELATED PROVISIONS
                          Subtitle A--Programs

SEC. 101. FEDERAL INVESTMENT IN SUPPORT OF NATIONAL SERVICE.

    (a) Transfer of Existing Subtitle.--Title I of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subtitle C (42 U.S.C. 12541 et seq.) as 
    subtitle I;
        (2) by inserting subtitle I (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of 
    this subsection) after subtitle H; and
        (3) by redesignating sections 120 through 136 as sections 199 
    through 199O, respectively.
    (b) Assistance Program Authorized.--Title I of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after subtitle B the following new subtitle:
              ``Subtitle C--National Service Trust Program

                ``PART I--INVESTMENT IN NATIONAL SERVICE

``SEC. 121. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE AND APPROVED NATIONAL 
SERVICE POSITIONS.
    ``(a) Provision of Assistance.--Subject to the availability of 
appropriations for this purpose, the Corporation for National and 
Community Service may make grants to States, subdivisions of States, 
Indian tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations, and 
institutions of higher education for the purpose of assisting the 
recipients of the grants--
        ``(1) to carry out full- or part-time national service programs, 
    including summer programs, described in section 122(a); and
        ``(2) to make grants in support of other national service 
    programs described in section 122(a) that are carried out by other 
    entities.
    ``(b) Agreements With Federal Agencies.--
        ``(1) Agreements authorized.--The Corporation may enter into a 
    contract or cooperative agreement with another Federal agency to 
    support a national service program carried out by the agency. The 
    support provided by the Corporation pursuant to the contract or 
    cooperative agreement may include the transfer to the Federal agency 
    of funds available to the Corporation under this subtitle.
        ``(2) Matching funds requirements.--A Federal agency receiving 
    assistance under this subsection shall not be required to satisfy 
    the matching funds requirements specified in subsection (e). 
    However, the supplementation requirements specified in section 173 
    shall apply with respect to the Federal national service programs 
    supported with such assistance.
        ``(3) Consultation with state commissions.--A Federal agency 
    receiving assistance under this subsection shall consult with the 
    State Commissions for those States in which projects will be 
    conducted using such assistance in order to ensure that the projects 
    do not duplicate projects conducted by State or local national 
    service programs.
        ``(4) Support for other national service programs.--A Federal 
    agency that enters into a contract or cooperative agreement under 
    paragraph (1) shall, in an appropriate case, enter into a contract 
    or cooperative agreement with an entity that is carrying out a 
    national service program in a State that is in existence in the 
    State as of the date of the contract or cooperative agreement and is 
    of high quality, in order to support the national service program.
    ``(c) Provision of Approved National Service Positions.--As part of 
the provision of assistance under subsections (a) and (b), the 
Corporation shall--
        ``(1) approve the provision of national service educational 
    awards described in subtitle D for the participants who serve in 
    national service programs carried out using such assistance; and
        ``(2) deposit in the National Service Trust established in 
    section 145(a) an amount equal to the product of--
            ``(A) the value of a national service educational award 
        under section 147; and
            ``(B) the total number of approved national service 
        positions to be provided.
    ``(d) Five Percent Limitation on Administrative Costs.--
        ``(1) Limitation.--Not more than 5 percent of the amount of 
    assistance provided to the original recipient of a grant or transfer 
    of assistance under subsection (a) or (b) for a fiscal year may be 
    used to pay for administrative costs incurred by--
            ``(A) the recipient of the assistance; and
            ``(B) national service programs carried out or supported 
        with the assistance.
        ``(2) Rules on use.--The Corporation may by rule prescribe the 
    manner and extent to which--
            ``(A) assistance provided under subsection (a) or (b) may be 
        used to cover administrative costs; and
            ``(B) that portion of the assistance available to cover 
        administrative costs should be distributed between--
                ``(i) the original recipient of the grant or transfer of 
            assistance under such subsection; and
                ``(ii) national service programs carried out or 
            supported with the assistance.
    ``(e) Matching Funds Requirements.--
        ``(1) Requirements.--Except as provided in section 140, the 
    Federal share of the cost of carrying out a national service program 
    that receives the assistance under subsection (a), whether the 
    assistance is provided directly or as a subgrant from the original 
    recipient of the assistance, may not exceed 75 percent of such cost.
        ``(2) Calculation.--In providing for the remaining share of the 
    cost of carrying out a national service program, the program--
            ``(A) shall provide for such share through a payment in cash 
        or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, 
        or services; and
            ``(B) may provide for such share through State sources, 
        local sources, or other Federal sources (other than the use of 
        funds made available under the national service laws).
        ``(3) Cost of health care.--In providing a payment in cash under 
    paragraph (2)(A) as part of providing for the remaining share of the 
    cost of carrying out a national service program, the program may 
    count not more than 85 percent of the cost of providing a health 
    care policy described in section 140(d)(2) toward such share.
        ``(4) Waiver.--The Corporation may waive in whole or in part the 
    requirements of paragraph (1) with respect to a national service 
    program in any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that such a 
    waiver would be equitable due to a lack of available financial 
    resources at the local level.
``SEC. 122. TYPES OF NATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAMS ELIGIBLE FOR PROGRAM 
ASSISTANCE.
    ``(a) Eligible National Service Programs.--The recipient of a grant 
under section 121(a) and each Federal agency receiving assistance under 
section 121(b) shall use the assistance, directly or through subgrants 
to other entities, to carry out full- or part-time national service 
programs, including summer programs, that address unmet human, 
educational, environmental, or public safety needs. Subject to 
subsection (b)(1), these national service programs may include the 
following types of national service programs:
        ``(1) A community corps program that meets unmet human, 
    educational, environmental, or public safety needs and promotes 
    greater community unity through the use of organized teams of 
    participants of varied social and economic backgrounds, skill 
    levels, physical and developmental capabilities, ages, ethnic 
    backgrounds, or genders.
        ``(2) A full-time, year-round youth corps program or full-time 
    summer youth corps program, such as a conservation corps or youth 
    service corps (including youth corps programs under subtitle I, the 
    Public Lands Corps established under the Public Lands Corps Act of 
    1993, the Urban Youth Corps established under section 106 of the 
    National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, and other 
    conservation corps or youth service corps that performs service on 
    Federal or other public lands or on Indian lands or Hawaiian home 
    lands), that--
            ``(A) undertakes meaningful service projects with visible 
        public benefits, including natural resource, urban renovation, 
        or human services projects;
            ``(B) includes as participants youths and young adults 
        between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, including out-of-
        school youths and other disadvantaged youths (such as youths 
        with limited basic skills, youths in foster care who are 
        becoming too old for foster care, youths of limited-English 
        proficiency, homeless youths, and youths who are individuals 
        with disabilities) who are between those ages; and
            ``(C) provides those participants who are youths and young 
        adults with--
                ``(i) crew-based, highly structured, and adult-
            supervised work experience, life skills, education, career 
            guidance and counseling, employment training, and support 
            services; and
                ``(ii) the opportunity to develop citizenship values and 
            skills through service to their community and the United 
            States.
        ``(3) A program that provides specialized training to 
    individuals in service-learning and places the individuals after 
    such training in positions, including positions as service-learning 
    coordinators, to facilitate service-learning in programs eligible 
    for funding under part I of subtitle B.
        ``(4) A service program that is targeted at specific unmet 
    human, educational, environmental, or public safety needs and that--
            ``(A) recruits individuals with special skills or provides 
        specialized preservice training to enable participants to be 
        placed individually or in teams in positions in which the 
        participants can meet such unmet needs; and
            ``(B) if consistent with the purposes of the program, brings 
        participants together for additional training and other 
        activities designed to foster civic responsibility, increase the 
        skills of participants, and improve the quality of the service 
        provided.
        ``(5) An individualized placement program that includes regular 
    group activities, such as leadership training and special service 
    projects.
        ``(6) A campus-based program that is designed to provide 
    substantial service in a community during the school term and during 
    summer or other vacation periods through the use of--
            ``(A) students who are attending an institution of higher 
        education, including students participating in a work-study 
        program assisted under part C of title IV of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.);
            ``(B) teams composed of such students; or
            ``(C) teams composed of a combination of such students and 
        community residents.
        ``(7) A preprofessional training program in which students 
    enrolled in an institution of higher education--
            ``(A) receive training in specified fields, which may 
        include classes containing service-learning;
            ``(B) perform service related to such training outside the 
        classroom during the school term and during summer or other 
        vacation periods; and
            ``(C) agree to provide service upon graduation to meet unmet 
        human, educational, environmental, or public safety needs 
        related to such training.
        ``(8) A professional corps program that recruits and places 
    qualified participants in positions--
            ``(A) as teachers, nurses and other health care providers, 
        police officers, early childhood development staff, engineers, 
        or other professionals providing service to meet educational, 
        human, environmental, or public safety needs in communities with 
        an inadequate number of such professionals;
            ``(B) that may include a salary in excess of the maximum 
        living allowance authorized in subsection (a)(3) of section 140, 
        as provided in subsection (c) of such section; and
            ``(C) that are sponsored by public or private nonprofit 
        employers who agree to pay 100 percent of the salaries and 
        benefits (other than any national service educational award 
        under subtitle D) of the participants.
        ``(9) A program in which economically disadvantaged individuals 
    who are between the ages of 16 and 24 years of age, inclusive, are 
    provided with opportunities to perform service that, while enabling 
    such individuals to obtain the education and employment skills 
    necessary to achieve economic self-sufficiency, will help their 
    communities meet--
            ``(A) the housing needs of low-income families and the 
        homeless; and
            ``(B) the need for community facilities in low-income areas.
        ``(10) A national service entrepreneur program that identifies, 
    recruits, and trains gifted young adults of all backgrounds and 
    assists them in designing solutions to community problems.
        ``(11) An intergenerational program that combines students, out-
    of-school youths, and older adults as participants to provide needed 
    community services, including an intergenerational component for 
    other national service programs described in this subsection.
        ``(12) A program that is administered by a combination of 
    nonprofit organizations located in a low-income area, provides a 
    broad range of services to residents of such area, is governed by a 
    board composed in significant part of low-income individuals, and is 
    intended to provide opportunities for individuals or teams of 
    individuals to engage in community projects in such area that meet 
    unaddressed community and individual needs, including projects that 
    would--
            ``(A) meet the needs of low-income children and youth aged 
        18 and younger, such as providing after-school `safe-places', 
        including schools, with opportunities for learning and 
        recreation; or
            ``(B) be directed to other important unaddressed needs in 
        such area.
        ``(13) A community service program designed to meet the needs of 
    rural communities, using teams or individual placements to address 
    the development needs of rural communities and to combat rural 
    poverty, including health care, education, and job training.
        ``(14) A program that seeks to eliminate hunger in communities 
    and rural areas through service in projects--
            ``(A) involving food banks, food pantries, and nonprofit 
        organizations that provide food during emergencies;
            ``(B) involving the gleaning of prepared and unprepared food 
        that would otherwise be discarded as unusable so that the usable 
        portion of such food may be donated to food banks, food 
        pantries, and other nonprofit organizations;
            ``(C) seeking to address the long-term causes of hunger 
        through education and the delivery of appropriate services; or
            ``(D) providing training in basic health, nutrition, and 
        life skills necessary to alleviate hunger in communities and 
        rural areas.
        ``(15) Such other national service programs addressing unmet 
    human, educational, environmental, or public safety needs as the 
    Corporation may designate.
    ``(b) Qualification Criteria To Determine Eligibility.--
        ``(1) Establishment by corporation.--The Corporation shall 
    establish qualification criteria for different types of national 
    service programs for the purpose of determining whether a particular 
    national service program should be considered to be a national 
    service program eligible to receive assistance or approved national 
    service positions under this subtitle.
        ``(2) Consultation.--In establishing qualification criteria 
    under paragraph (1), the Corporation shall consult with 
    organizations and individuals with extensive experience in 
    developing and administering effective national service programs or 
    regarding the delivery of human, educational, environmental, or 
    public safety services to communities or persons.
        ``(3) Application to subgrants.--The qualification criteria 
    established by the Corporation under paragraph (1) shall also be 
    used by each recipient of assistance under section 121(a) that uses 
    any portion of the assistance to conduct a grant program to support 
    other national service programs.
        ``(4) Encouragement of intergenerational components of 
    programs.--The Corporation shall encourage national service programs 
    eligible to receive assistance or approved national service 
    positions under this subtitle to establish, if consistent with the 
    purposes of the program, an intergenerational component of the 
    program that combines students, out-of-school youths, and older 
    adults as participants to provide services to address unmet human, 
    educational, environmental, or public safety needs.
    ``(c) National Service Priorities.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--
            ``(A) By corporation.--In order to concentrate national 
        efforts on meeting certain unmet human, educational, 
        environmental, or public safety needs and to achieve the other 
        purposes of this Act, the Corporation shall establish, and after 
        reviewing the strategic plan approved under section 192A(g)(1), 
        periodically alter priorities as appropriate regarding the types 
        of national service programs to be assisted under subsection (b) 
        or (d) of section 129 and the purposes for which such assistance 
        may be used.
            ``(B) By states.--Consistent with paragraph (4), States 
        shall establish, and through the national service plan process 
        described in section 178(e)(1), periodically alter priorities as 
        appropriate regarding the national service programs to be 
        assisted under section 129(a)(1). The State priorities shall be 
        subject to Corporation review as part of the application process 
        under section 130.
        ``(2) Notice to applicants.--The Corporation shall provide 
    advance notice to potential applicants of any national service 
    priorities to be in effect under this subsection for a fiscal year. 
    The notice shall specifically include--
            ``(A) a description of any alteration made in the priorities 
        since the previous notice; and
            ``(B) a description of the national service programs that 
        are designated by the Corporation under section 133(d)(2) as 
        eligible for priority consideration in the next competitive 
        distribution of assistance under section 121(a).
        ``(3) Regulations.--The Corporation shall by regulation 
    establish procedures to ensure the equitable treatment of national 
    service programs that--
            ``(A) receive funding under this subtitle for multiple 
        years; and
            ``(B) would be adversely affected by annual revisions in 
        such national service priorities.
        ``(4) Application to subgrants.--Any national service priorities 
    established by the Corporation under this subsection shall also be 
    used by each recipient of funds under section 121(a) that uses any 
    portion of the assistance to conduct a grant program to support 
    other national service programs.
``SEC. 123. TYPES OF NATIONAL SERVICE POSITIONS ELIGIBLE FOR APPROVAL 
FOR NATIONAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL AWARDS.
    ``The Corporation may approve of any of the following service 
positions as an approved national service position that includes the 
national service educational award described in subtitle D as one of the 
benefits to be provided for successful service in the position:
        ``(1) A position for a participant in a national service program 
    described in section 122(a) that receives assistance under 
    subsection (a) or (b) of section 121.
        ``(2) A position for a participant in a program that--
            ``(A) is carried out by a State, a subdivision of a State, 
        an Indian tribe, a public or private nonprofit organization, an 
        institution of higher education, or a Federal agency; and
            ``(B) would be eligible to receive assistance under section 
        121(a), based on criteria established by the Corporation, but 
        has not applied for such assistance.
        ``(3) A position involving service as a VISTA volunteer under 
    title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 
    4951 et seq.).
        ``(4) A position facilitating service-learning in a program 
    described in section 122(a)(3) that is eligible for assistance under 
    part I of subtitle B.
        ``(5) A position for a participant in the Civilian Community 
    Corps under subtitle E.
        ``(6) A position involving service as a crew leader in a youth 
    corps program or a similar position supporting a national service 
    program that receives an approved national service position.
        ``(7) Such other national service positions as the Corporation 
    considers to be appropriate.

``SEC. 124. TYPES OF PROGRAM ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Planning Assistance.--The Corporation may provide assistance 
under section 121 to a qualified applicant that submits an application 
under section 130 for the planning of a national service program. 
Assistance provided in accordance with this subsection may cover a 
period of not more than 1 year.
    ``(b) Operational Assistance.--The Corporation may provide 
assistance under section 121 to a qualified applicant that submits an 
application under section 130 for the establishment, operation, or 
expansion of a national service program. Assistance provided in 
accordance with this subsection may cover a period of not more than 3 
years, but may be renewed by the Corporation upon consideration of a new 
application under section 130.
    ``(c) Replication Assistance.--The Corporation may provide 
assistance under section 121 to a qualified applicant that submits an 
application under section 130 for the expansion of a proven national 
service program to another geographical location. Assistance provided in 
accordance with this subsection may cover a period of not more than 3 
years, but may be renewed by the Corporation upon consideration of a new 
application under section 130.
    ``(d) Application to Subgrants.--The requirements of this section 
shall apply to any State or other applicant receiving assistance under 
section 121 that proposes to conduct a grant program using the 
assistance to support other national service programs.

``SEC. 125. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Training Programs.--The Corporation may conduct, directly or 
by grant or contract, appropriate training programs regarding national 
service in order to--
        ``(1) improve the ability of national service programs assisted 
    under section 121 to meet human, educational, environmental, or 
    public safety needs in communities--
            ``(A) where services are needed most; and
            ``(B) where programs do not exist, or are too limited to 
        meet community needs, as of the date on which the Corporation 
        makes the grant or enters into the contract;
        ``(2) promote leadership development in such programs;
        ``(3) improve the instructional and programmatic quality of such 
    programs to build an ethic of civic responsibility;
        ``(4) develop the management and budgetary skills of program 
    operators;
        ``(5) provide for or improve the training provided to the 
    participants in such programs; and
        ``(6) encourage national service programs to adhere to risk 
    management procedures, including the training of participants in 
    appropriate risk management practices.
    ``(b) Technical Assistance.--To the extent appropriate and 
necessary, the Corporation shall make technical assistance available to 
States, Indian tribes, labor organizations, organizations operated by 
young adults, organizations serving economically disadvantaged 
individuals, and other entities described in section 121 that desire--
        ``(1) to develop national service programs; or
        ``(2) to apply for assistance under such section or under a 
    grant program conducted using assistance provided under such 
    section.

``SEC. 126. OTHER SPECIAL ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Support for State Commissions.--
        ``(1) Grants authorized.--From amounts appropriated for a fiscal 
    year pursuant to the authorization of appropriation in section 
    501(a)(4), the Corporation may make a grant in an amount between 
    $125,000 and $750,000 to a State to assist the State to establish or 
    operate the State Commission on National and Community Service 
    required to be established by the State under section 178.
        ``(2) Limitation on amount of grants.--Notwithstanding the 
    amounts specified in paragraph (1), the amount of a grant that may 
    be provided to a State Commission under this subsection, together 
    with other Federal funds available to establish or operate the State 
    Commission, may not exceed--
            ``(A) 85 percent of the total cost to establish or operate 
        the State Commission for the first year for which the State 
        Commission receives assistance under this subsection; and
            ``(B) such smaller percentage of such cost as the 
        Corporation may establish for the second, third, and fourth 
        years of such assistance in order to ensure that the Federal 
        share does not exceed 50 percent of such costs for the fifth 
        year, and any subsequent year, for which the State Commission 
        receives assistance under this subsection.
    ``(b) Disaster Service.--The Corporation may undertake activities, 
including activities carried out through part A of title I of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.), to 
involve in disaster relief efforts youth corps programs described in 
section 122(a)(2) and other programs that receive assistance under the 
national service laws.
    ``(c) Challenge Grants for National Service Programs.--
        ``(1) Assistance authorized.--The Corporation may make challenge 
    grants under this subsection to national service programs that 
    receive assistance under section 121.
        ``(2) Selection criteria.--The Corporation shall develop 
    criteria for the selection of recipients of challenge grants under 
    this subsection, so as to make the grants widely available to a 
    variety of programs that--
            ``(A) are high-quality national service programs; and
            ``(B) are carried out by entities with demonstrated 
        experience in establishing and implementing projects that 
        provide benefits to participants and communities.
        ``(3) Amount of assistance.--A challenge grant under this 
    subsection may provide not more than $1 of assistance under this 
    subsection for each $1 in cash raised by the national service 
    program from private sources in excess of amounts required to be 
    provided by the program to satisfy matching funds requirements under 
    section 121(e). The Corporation shall establish a ceiling on the 
    amount of assistance that may be provided to a national service 
    program under this subsection.

               ``PART II--APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS

``SEC. 129. PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE AND APPROVED NATIONAL SERVICE 
POSITIONS BY COMPETITIVE AND OTHER MEANS.
    ``(a) Allotments of Assistance and Approved Positions to States and 
Indian Tribes.--
        ``(1) 33\1/3\ percent allotment of assistance to certain 
    states.--Of the funds allocated by the Corporation for provision of 
    assistance under subsections (a) and (b) of section 121 for a fiscal 
    year, the Corporation shall make a grant under section 121(a) (and a 
    corresponding allotment of approved national service positions) to 
    each of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the 
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico that has an application approved by the 
    Corporation under section 133. The amount allotted as a grant to 
    each such State under this paragraph for a fiscal year shall be 
    equal to the amount that bears the same ratio to 33\1/3\ percent of 
    the allocated funds for that fiscal year as the population of the 
    State bears to the total population of the several States, the 
    District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
        ``(2) One percent allotment for certain territories and 
    possessions.--Of the funds allocated by the Corporation for 
    provision of assistance under subsections (a) and (b) of section 121 
    for a fiscal year, the Corporation shall reserve 1 percent of the 
    allocated funds for grants under section 121(a) to the United States 
    Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the 
    Northern Mariana Islands upon approval of an application by the 
    Corporation under section 133. Palau shall also be eligible for a 
    grant under this paragraph from the allotment until such time as the 
    Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified. The amount 
    allotted as a grant to each such territory or possession under this 
    paragraph for a fiscal year shall be equal to the amount that bears 
    the same ratio to 1 percent of the allocated funds for that fiscal 
    year as the population of the territory or possession bears to the 
    total population of such territories and possessions.
        ``(3) One percent allotment for indian tribes.--Of the funds 
    allocated by the Corporation for provision of assistance under 
    subsections (a) and (b) of section 121 for a fiscal year, the 
    Corporation shall reserve 1 percent of the allocated funds for 
    grants under section 121(a) to Indian tribes, to be allotted by the 
    Corporation on a competitive basis in accordance with their 
    respective needs.
        ``(4) Effect of failure to apply.--If a State or Indian tribe 
    fails to apply for, or fails to give notice to the Corporation of 
    its intent to apply for, an allotment under this subsection, the 
    Corporation shall use the amount that would have been allotted under 
    this subsection to the State or Indian tribe--
            ``(A) to make grants (and provide approved national service 
        positions in connection with such grants) to other eligible 
        entities under section 121 that propose to carry out national 
        service programs in the State or on behalf of the Indian tribe; 
        and
            ``(B) after making grants under subparagraph (A), to make a 
        reallotment to other States and Indian tribes with approved 
        applications under section 130.
    ``(b) Reservation of Approved Positions.--The Corporation shall 
ensure that each individual selected during a fiscal year for assignment 
as a VISTA volunteer under title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act 
of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.) or as a participant in the Civilian 
Community Corps Demonstration Program under subtitle E shall receive the 
national service educational award described in subtitle D if the 
individual satisfies the eligibility requirements for the award. Funds 
for approved national service positions required by this paragraph for a 
fiscal year shall be deducted from the total funding for approved 
national service positions to be available for distribution under 
subsections (a) and (d) for that fiscal year.
    ``(c) Reservation for Special Assistance.--From amounts appropriated 
for a fiscal year pursuant to the authorization of appropriation in 
section 501(a)(2), and subject to the limitation in such section, the 
Corporation may reserve such amount as the Corporation considers to be 
appropriate for the purpose of making assistance available under 
sections 125 and 126. The Corporation may not reserve more than 
$10,000,000 for a fiscal year for disaster service under subsection (b) 
of section 126 or challenge grants under subsection (c) of such section.
    ``(d) Competitive Distribution of Remaining Funds.--
        ``(1) State competition.--Of the funds allocated by the 
    Corporation for provision of assistance under subsections (a) and 
    (b) of section 121 for a fiscal year, the Corporation shall use not 
    less than 33\1/3\ percent of the allocated funds to make grants to 
    States on a competitive basis under section 121(a).
        ``(2) Federal agencies and other applicants.--The Corporation 
    shall distribute on a competitive basis to subdivisions of States, 
    Indian tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations (including 
    labor organizations), institutions of higher education, and Federal 
    agencies the remainder of the funds allocated by the Corporation for 
    provision of assistance under section 121 for a fiscal year, after 
    operation of paragraph (1) and subsections (a) and (c).
        ``(3) Limitation on distribution to federal agencies.--The 
    Corporation may not provide more than \1/3\ of the funds available 
    for competitive distribution under paragraph (2) for a fiscal year 
    to Federal agencies under section 121(b).
        ``(4) Priority limitations.--The Corporation may limit the 
    categories of eligible applicants for assistance under paragraph (2) 
    consistent with the priorities established by the Corporation under 
    section 133(d)(2).
        ``(5) Reservation of funds for supplemental and outreach 
    grants.--
            ``(A) Reservation.--From amounts appropriated for a fiscal 
        year pursuant to the authorization of appropriation in section 
        501(a)(2), and subject to the limitation in such section, the 
        Chief Executive Officer shall reserve an amount that is not less 
        than 1 percent of such amounts (except that the amount reserved 
        may not exceed $5,000,000), in order to make supplemental grants 
        as provided in subparagraph (B) and outreach grants as provided 
        in subparagraph (C). The amount reserved pursuant to this 
        paragraph shall be available until expended.
            ``(B) Grants to assist entities in placing applicants who 
        are individuals with a disability.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Chief Executive Officer shall 
            make grants from a portion of the funds reserved under 
            subparagraph (A) to entities that--

                    ``(I) receive a grant to carry out a national 
                service program under paragraph (1) or (2);
                    ``(II) demonstrate that the entity has received a 
                substantial number of applications for placement in the 
                national service program of persons who are individuals 
                with a disability and who require a reasonable 
                accommodation (as defined in section 101(9) of the 
                Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
                12111(9))), or auxiliary aids and services (as defined 
                in section 3(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12102(1))), in 
                order to perform national service; and
                    ``(III) demonstrate that additional funding would 
                assist the national service program in placing a 
                substantial number of such individuals with a disability 
                as participants in projects carried out through the 
                program.

                ``(ii) Requirements.--Funds made available through such 
            a supplemental grant under clause (i) shall be made 
            available for the same purposes, and subject to the same 
            requirements, as funds made available through a grant made 
            under paragraph (1) or (2).
            ``(C) Grants for outreach to individuals with a 
        disability.--
                ``(i) In general.--From the portion of the funds 
            reserved under subparagraph (A) that is not used to make 
            grants under subparagraph (B), the Chief Executive Officer 
            shall make grants to public or private nonprofit 
            organizations to pay for the Federal share described in 
            section 121(e) of--

                    ``(I) providing information about the programs 
                specified in section 193A(d)(10) to such individuals 
                with a disability who desire to perform national 
                service; and
                    ``(II) enabling the individuals to participate in 
                activities carried out through such programs, which may 
                include assisting the placement of the individuals in 
                approved national service positions.

                ``(ii) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
            under this subparagraph, an organization described in clause 
            (i) shall submit an application to the Chief Executive 
            Officer at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
            information as the Chief Executive Officer may require.
    ``(e) Application Required.--The allotment of assistance and 
approved national service positions to a State or Indian tribe under 
subsection (a), and the competitive distribution of assistance under 
subsection (d), shall be made by the Corporation only pursuant to an 
application submitted by a State or other applicant under section 130 
and approved by the Corporation under section 133.
    ``(f) Approval of Positions Subject to Available Funds.--The 
Corporation may not approve positions as approved national service 
positions under this subtitle for a fiscal year in excess of the number 
of such positions for which the Corporation has sufficient available 
funds in the National Service Trust for that fiscal year, taking into 
consideration funding needs for national service educational awards 
under subtitle D based on completed service. If appropriations are 
insufficient to provide the maximum allowable national service 
educational awards under subtitle D for all eligible participants, the 
Corporation is authorized to make necessary and reasonable adjustments 
to program rules.
    ``(g) Sponsorship of Approved National Service Positions.--
        ``(1) Sponsorship authorized.--The Corporation may enter into 
    agreements with persons or entities who offer to sponsor national 
    service positions for which the person or entity will be responsible 
    for supplying the funds necessary to provide a national service 
    educational award. The distribution of these approved national 
    service positions shall be made pursuant to the agreement, and the 
    creation of these positions shall not be taken into consideration in 
    determining the number of approved national service positions to be 
    available for distribution under this section.
        ``(2) Deposit of contribution.--Funds provided pursuant to an 
    agreement under paragraph (1) and any other funds contributed to the 
    Corporation to support the activities of the Corporation under the 
    national service laws shall be deposited in the National Service 
    Trust established in section 145 until such time as the funds are 
    needed.
``SEC. 130. APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE AND APPROVED NATIONAL SERVICE 
POSITIONS.
    ``(a) Time, Manner, and Content of Application.--To be eligible to 
receive assistance under section 121 or approved national service 
positions for participants who serve in the national service programs to 
be carried out using the assistance, a State, subdivision of a State, 
Indian tribe, public or private nonprofit organization, institution of 
higher education, or Federal agency shall prepare and submit to the 
Corporation an application at such time, in such manner, and containing 
such information as the Corporation may reasonably require.
    ``(b) Types of Permissible Application Information.--In order to 
have adequate information upon which to consider an application under 
section 133, the Corporation may require the following information to be 
provided in an application submitted under subsection (a):
        ``(1) A description of the national service programs proposed to 
    be carried out directly by the applicant using assistance provided 
    under section 121.
        ``(2) A description of the national service programs that are 
    selected by the applicant to receive a grant using assistance 
    requested under section 121 and a description of the process and 
    criteria by which the programs were selected.
        ``(3) A description of other funding sources to be used, or 
    sought to be used, for the national service programs referred to in 
    paragraphs (1) and (2), and, if the application is submitted for the 
    purpose of seeking a renewal of assistance, a description of the 
    success of the programs in reducing their reliance on Federal funds.
        ``(4) A description of the extent to which the projects to be 
    conducted using the assistance will address unmet human, 
    educational, environmental, or public safety needs and produce a 
    direct benefit for the community in which the projects are 
    performed.
        ``(5) A description of the plan to be used to recruit 
    participants, including youth who are individuals with disabilities 
    and economically disadvantaged young men and women, for the national 
    service programs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2).
        ``(6) A description of the manner in which the national service 
    programs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) build on existing 
    programs, including Federal programs.
        ``(7) A description of the manner in which the national service 
    programs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) will involve 
    participants--
            ``(A) in projects that build an ethic of civic 
        responsibility and produce a positive change in the lives of 
        participants through training and participation in meaningful 
        service experiences and opportunities for reflection on such 
        experiences; and
            ``(B) in leadership positions in implementing and evaluating 
        the program.
        ``(8) Measurable goals for the national service programs 
    referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2), and a strategy to achieve 
    such goals, in terms of--
            ``(A) the impact to be made in meeting unmet human, 
        educational, environmental, or public safety needs; and
            ``(B) the service experience to be provided to participants 
        in the programs.
        ``(9) A description of the manner and extent to which the 
    national service programs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
    conform to the national service priorities established by the 
    Corporation under section 122(c).
        ``(10) A description of the past experience of the applicant in 
    operating a comparable program or in conducting a grant program in 
    support of other comparable service programs.
        ``(11) A description of the type and number of proposed service 
    positions in which participants will receive the national service 
    educational award described in subtitle D and a description of the 
    manner in which approved national service positions will be 
    apportioned by the applicant.
        ``(12) A description of the manner and extent to which 
    participants, representatives of the community served, community-
    based agencies with a demonstrated record of experience in providing 
    services, and labor organizations contributed to the development of 
    the national service programs referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2), 
    including the identity of the individual representing each 
    appropriate labor organization (if any) who was consulted and the 
    nature of the consultation.
        ``(13) Such other information as the Corporation may reasonably 
    require.
    ``(c) Required Application Information.--An application submitted 
under subsection (a) shall contain the following information:
        ``(1) A description of the jobs or positions into which 
    participants will be placed using the assistance provided under 
    section 121, including descriptions of specific tasks to be 
    performed by such participants.
        ``(2) A description of the minimum qualifications that 
    individuals shall meet to become participants in such programs.
    ``(d) Application To Receive Only Approved National Service 
Positions.--
        ``(1) Applicability of subsection.--This subsection shall apply 
    in the case of an application in which--
            ``(A) the applicant is not seeking assistance under 
        subsection (a) or (b) of section 121, but requests national 
        service educational awards for individuals serving in service 
        positions described in section 123; or
            ``(B) the applicant requests national service educational 
        awards for service positions described in section 123, but the 
        positions are not positions in a national service program 
        described in section 122(a) for which assistance may be provided 
        under subsection (a) or (b) of section 121.
        ``(2) Special application requirements.--For the applications 
    described in paragraph (1), the Corporation shall establish special 
    application requirements in order to determine--
            ``(A) whether the service positions meet unmet human, 
        educational, environmental, or public safety needs and meet the 
        criteria for assistance under this subtitle; and
            ``(B) whether the Corporation should approve the positions 
        as approved national service positions.
    ``(e) Special Rule for State Applicants.--
        ``(1) Submission by state commission.--The application of a 
    State for approved national service positions or for a grant under 
    section 121(a) shall be submitted by the State Commission.
        ``(2) Competitive selection.--The application of a State shall 
    contain an assurance that all assistance provided under section 
    121(a) to the State will be used to support national service 
    programs that were selected by the State on a competitive basis. In 
    making such competitive selections, the State shall seek to ensure 
    the equitable allocation within the State of assistance and approved 
    national service positions provided under this subtitle to the State 
    taking into consideration such factors as the location of the 
    programs applying to the State, population density, and economic 
    distress.
        ``(3) Assistance to nonstate entities.--The application of a 
    State shall also contain an assurance that not less than 60 percent 
    of the assistance will be used to make grants in support of national 
    service programs other than national service programs carried out by 
    a State agency. The Corporation may permit a State to deviate from 
    the percentage specified by this subsection if the State has not 
    received a sufficient number of acceptable applications to comply 
    with the percentage.
    ``(f) Special Rule for Certain Applicants.--
        ``(1) Written concurrence.--In the case of a program applicant 
    that proposes to also serve as the service sponsor, the application 
    shall include the written concurrence of any local labor 
    organization representing employees of the service sponsor who are 
    engaged in the same or substantially similar work as that proposed 
    to be carried out.
        ``(2) Program applicant defined.--For purposes of this 
    subsection, the term `program applicant' means--
            ``(A) a State, subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, public 
        or private nonprofit organization, institution of higher 
        education, or Federal agency submitting an application under 
        this section; or
            ``(B) an entity applying for assistance or approved national 
        service positions through a grant program conducted using 
        assistance provided to a State, subdivision of a State, Indian 
        tribe, public or private nonprofit organization, institution of 
        higher education, or Federal agency under section 121.
    ``(g) Limitation on Same Project in Multiple Applications.--The 
Corporation shall reject an application submitted under this section if 
a project proposed to be conducted using assistance requested by the 
applicant is already described in another application pending before the 
Corporation.
``SEC. 131. NATIONAL SERVICE PROGRAM ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS.
    ``(a) Impact on Communities.--An application submitted under section 
130 shall include an assurance by the applicant that any national 
service program carried out by the applicant using assistance provided 
under section 121 and any national service program supported by a grant 
made by the applicant using such assistance will--
        ``(1) address unmet human, educational, environmental, or public 
    safety needs through services that provide a direct benefit to the 
    community in which the service is performed; and
        ``(2) comply with the nonduplication and nondisplacement 
    requirements of section 177 and the grievance procedure requirements 
    of section 176(f).
    ``(b) Impact on Participants.--An application submitted under 
section 130 shall also include an assurance by the applicant that any 
national service program carried out by the applicant using assistance 
provided under section 121 and any national service program supported by 
a grant made by the applicant using such assistance will--
        ``(1) provide participants in the national service program with 
    the training, skills, and knowledge necessary for the projects that 
    participants are called upon to perform;
        ``(2) provide support services to participants, such as the 
    provision of appropriate information and support--
            ``(A) to those participants who are completing a term of 
        service and making the transition to other educational and 
        career opportunities; and
            ``(B) to those participants who are school dropouts in order 
        to assist those participants in earning the equivalent of a high 
        school diploma; and
        ``(3) provide, if appropriate, structured opportunities for 
    participants to reflect on their service experiences.
    ``(c) Consultation.--An application submitted under section 130 
shall also include an assurance by the applicant that any national 
service program carried out by the applicant using assistance provided 
under section 121 and any national service program supported by a grant 
made by the applicant using such assistance will--
        ``(1) provide in the design, recruitment, and operation of the 
    program for broad-based input from--
            ``(A) the community served and potential participants in the 
        program; and
            ``(B) community-based agencies with a demonstrated record of 
        experience in providing services and local labor organizations 
        representing employees of service sponsors, if these entities 
        exist in the area to be served by the program;
        ``(2) prior to the placement of participants, consult with the 
    appropriate local labor organization, if any, representing employees 
    in the area who are engaged in the same or similar work as that 
    proposed to be carried out by such program to ensure compliance with 
    the nondisplacement requirements specified in section 177; and
        ``(3) in the case of a program that is not funded through a 
    State, consult with and coordinate activities with the State 
    Commission for the State in which the program operates.
    ``(d) Evaluation and Performance Goals.--
        ``(1) In general.--An application submitted under section 130 
    shall also include an assurance by the applicant that the applicant 
    will--
            ``(A) arrange for an independent evaluation of any national 
        service program carried out using assistance provided to the 
        applicant under section 121 or, with the approval of the 
        Corporation, conduct an internal evaluation of the program;
            ``(B) apply measurable performance goals and evaluation 
        methods (such as the use of surveys of participants and persons 
        served), which are to be used as part of such evaluation to 
        determine the impact of the program--
                ``(i) on communities and persons served by the projects 
            performed by the program;
                ``(ii) on participants who take part in the projects; 
            and
                ``(iii) in such other areas as the Corporation may 
            require; and
            ``(C) cooperate with any evaluation activities undertaken by 
        the Corporation.
        ``(2) Evaluation.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Corporation 
    shall develop evaluation criteria and performance goals applicable 
    to all national service programs carried out with assistance 
    provided under section 121.
        ``(3) Alternative evaluation requirements.--The Corporation may 
    establish alternative evaluation requirements for national service 
    programs based upon the amount of assistance received under section 
    121 or received by a grant made by a recipient of assistance under 
    such section. The determination of whether a national service 
    program is covered by this paragraph shall be made in such manner as 
    the Corporation may prescribe.
    ``(e) Living Allowances and Other Inservice Benefits.--Except as 
provided in section 140(c), an application submitted under section 130 
shall also include an assurance by the applicant that the applicant 
will--
        ``(1) ensure the provision of a living allowance and other 
    benefits specified in section 140 to participants in any national 
    service program carried out by the applicant using assistance 
    provided under section 121; and
        ``(2) require that each national service program that receives a 
    grant from the applicant using such assistance will also provide a 
    living allowance and other benefits specified in section 140 to 
    participants in the program.
    ``(f) Selection of Participants From Individuals Recruited by 
Corporation or State Commissions.--The Corporation may also require an 
assurance by the applicant that any national service program carried out 
by the applicant using assistance provided under section 121 and any 
national service program supported by a grant made by the applicant 
using such assistance will select a portion of the participants for the 
program from among prospective participants recruited by the Corporation 
or State Commissions under section 138(d). The Corporation may specify a 
minimum percentage of participants to be selected from the national 
leadership pool established under section 138(e) and may vary the 
percentage for different types of national service programs.

``SEC. 132. INELIGIBLE SERVICE CATEGORIES.

    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), an 
application submitted to the Corporation under section 130 shall include 
an assurance by the applicant that any national service program carried 
out using assistance provided under section 121 and any approved 
national service position provided to an applicant will not be used to 
perform service that provides a direct benefit to any--
        ``(1) business organized for profit;
        ``(2) labor union;
        ``(3) partisan political organization;
        ``(4) organization engaged in religious activities, unless such 
    service does not involve the use of assistance provided under 
    section 121 or participants--
            ``(A) to give religious instruction;
            ``(B) to conduct worship services;
            ``(C) to provide instruction as part of a program that 
        includes mandatory religious education or worship;
            ``(D) to construct or operate facilities devoted to 
        religious instruction or worship or to maintain facilities 
        primarily or inherently devoted to religious instruction or 
        worship; or
            ``(E) to engage in any form of proselytization; or
        ``(5) nonprofit organization that fails to comply with the 
    restrictions contained in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue 
    Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)), except that nothing in this section 
    shall be construed to prevent participants from engaging in advocacy 
    activities undertaken at their own initiative.
    ``(b) Regional Corporation.--The requirement of subsection (a) 
relating to an assurance regarding direct benefits to businesses 
organized for profit shall not apply with respect to a Regional 
Corporation, as defined in section 3(g) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(g)), that is established in accordance 
with such Act as a for-profit corporation but that is engaging in 
nonprofit activities.

``SEC. 133. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Corporation Consideration of Certain Criteria.--The 
Corporation shall apply the criteria described in subsections (c) and 
(d) in determining whether--
        ``(1) to approve an application submitted under section 130 and 
    provide assistance under section 121 to the applicant; and
        ``(2) to approve service positions described in the application 
    as national service positions that include the national service 
    educational award described in subtitle D and provide such approved 
    national service positions to the applicant.
    ``(b) Application to Subgrants.--
        ``(1) In general.--A State or other entity that uses assistance 
    provided under section 121(a) to support national service programs 
    selected on a competitive basis to receive a share of the assistance 
    shall use the criteria described in subsections (c) and (d) when 
    considering an application submitted by a national service program 
    to receive a portion of such assistance or an approved national 
    service position.
        ``(2) Contents.--The application of the State or other entity 
    under section 130 shall contain--
            ``(A) a certification that the State or other entity used 
        these criteria in the selection of national service programs to 
        receive assistance;
            ``(B) a description of the jobs or positions into which 
        participants will be placed using such assistance, including 
        descriptions of specific tasks to be performed by such 
        participants; and
            ``(C) a description of the minimum qualifications that 
        individuals shall meet to become participants in such programs.
    ``(c) Assistance Criteria.--The criteria required to be applied in 
evaluating applications submitted under section 130 are as follows:
        ``(1) The quality of the national service program proposed to be 
    carried out directly by the applicant or supported by a grant from 
    the applicant.
        ``(2) The innovative aspects of the national service program, 
    and the feasibility of replicating the program.
        ``(3) The sustainability of the national service program, based 
    on evidence such as the existence--
            ``(A) of strong and broad-based community support for the 
        program; and
            ``(B) of multiple funding sources or private funding for the 
        program.
        ``(4) The quality of the leadership of the national service 
    program, the past performance of the program, and the extent to 
    which the program builds on existing programs.
        ``(5) The extent to which participants of the national service 
    program are recruited from among residents of the communities in 
    which projects are to be conducted, and the extent to which 
    participants and community residents are involved in the design, 
    leadership, and operation of the program.
        ``(6) The extent to which projects would be conducted in the 
    following areas where they are needed most:
            ``(A) Communities designated as empowerment zones or 
        redevelopment areas, targeted for special economic incentives, 
        or otherwise identifiable as having high concentrations of low-
        income people.
            ``(B) Areas that are environmentally distressed.
            ``(C) Areas adversely affected by Federal actions related to 
        the management of Federal lands that result in significant 
        regional job losses and economic dislocation.
            ``(D) Areas adversely affected by reductions in defense 
        spending or the closure or realignment of military 
        installations.
            ``(E) Areas that have an unemployment rate greater than the 
        national average unemployment for the most recent 12 months for 
        which satisfactory data are available.
        ``(7) In the case of applicants other than States, the extent to 
    which the application is consistent with the application under 
    section 130 of the State in which the projects would be conducted.
        ``(8) Such other criteria as the Corporation considers to be 
    appropriate.
    ``(d) Other Considerations.--
        ``(1) Geographic diversity.--The Corporation shall ensure that 
    recipients of assistance provided under section 121 are 
    geographically diverse and include projects to be conducted in those 
    urban and rural areas in a State with the highest rates of poverty.
        ``(2) Priorities.--The Corporation may designate, under such 
    criteria as may be established by the Corporation, certain national 
    service programs or types of national service programs described in 
    section 122(a) for priority consideration in the competitive 
    distribution of funds under section 129(d)(2). In designating 
    national service programs to receive priority, the Corporation may 
    include--
            ``(A) national service programs carried out by another 
        Federal agency;
            ``(B) national service programs that conform to the national 
        service priorities in effect under section 122(c);
            ``(C) innovative national service programs;
            ``(D) national service programs that are well established in 
        one or more States at the time of the application and are 
        proposed to be expanded to additional States using assistance 
        provided under section 121;
            ``(E) grant programs in support of other national service 
        programs if the grant programs are to be conducted by nonprofit 
        organizations with a demonstrated and extensive expertise in the 
        provision of services to meet human, educational, environmental, 
        or public safety needs;
            ``(F) professional corps programs described in section 
        122(a)(8); and
            ``(G) programs that--
                ``(i) received funding under subtitle D of this Act, as 
            in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
            subtitle;
                ``(ii) the Corporation determines to meet the 
            requirements of sections 142 (other than subsection (g)), 
            143, and 148 through 150 of this Act, as in effect on such 
            day, in addition to the requirements of this subtitle; and
                ``(iii) include an evaluation component.
        ``(3) Additional priority.--In making a competitive distribution 
    of funds under section 129(d)(2), the Corporation may give priority 
    consideration to a national service program that is--
            ``(A) proposed in an application submitted by a State 
        Commission; and
            ``(B) not one of the types of programs described in 
        paragraph (2),
    if the State Commission provides an adequate explanation of the 
    reasons why it should not be a priority of such State to carry out 
    any of such types of programs in the State.
        ``(4) Review panel.--The Corporation shall--
            ``(A) establish panels of experts for the purpose of 
        securing recommendations on applications submitted under section 
        130 for more than $250,000 in assistance, or for national 
        service positions that would require more than $250,000 in 
        national service educational awards; and
            ``(B) consider the opinions of such panels prior to making 
        such determinations.
    ``(e) Emphasis on Areas Most in Need.--In making assistance 
available under section 121 and in providing approved national service 
positions under section 123, the Corporation shall ensure that not less 
than 50 percent of the total amount of assistance to be distributed to 
States under subsections (a) and (d)(1) of section 129 for a fiscal year 
is provided to carry out or support national service programs and 
projects that--
        ``(1) are conducted in any of the areas described in subsection 
    (c)(6) or on Federal or other public lands, to address unmet human, 
    educational, environmental, or public safety needs in such areas or 
    on such lands; and
        ``(2) place a priority on the recruitment of participants who 
    are residents of any of such areas or Federal or other public lands.
    ``(f) Rejection of State Applications.--
        ``(1) Notification of state applicants.--If the Corporation 
    rejects an application submitted by a State Commission under section 
    130 for funds described in section 129(a)(1), the Corporation shall 
    promptly notify the State Commission of the reasons for the 
    rejection of the application.
        ``(2) Resubmission and reconsideration.--The Corporation shall 
    provide a State Commission notified under paragraph (1) with a 
    reasonable opportunity to revise and resubmit the application. At 
    the request of the State Commission, the Corporation shall provide 
    technical assistance to the State Commission as part of the 
    resubmission process. The Corporation shall promptly reconsider an 
    application resubmitted under this paragraph.
        ``(3) Reallotment.--The amount of any State's allotment under 
    section 129(a) for a fiscal year that the Corporation determines 
    will not be provided for that fiscal year shall be available for 
    distribution by the Corporation as provided in paragraph (3) of such 
    subsection.

                ``PART III--NATIONAL SERVICE PARTICIPANTS

``SEC. 137. DESCRIPTION OF PARTICIPANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of this subtitle, an individual 
shall be considered to be a participant in a national service program 
carried out using assistance provided under section 121 if the 
individual--
        ``(1) meets such eligibility requirements, directly related to 
    the tasks to be accomplished, as may be established by the program;
        ``(2) is selected by the program to serve in a position with the 
    program;
        ``(3) will serve in the program for a term of service specified 
    in section 139 to be performed before, during, or after attendance 
    at an institution of higher education;
        ``(4) is 17 years of age or older at the time the individual 
    begins the term of service;
        ``(5) has received a high school diploma or its equivalent, 
    agrees to obtain a high school diploma or its equivalent (unless 
    this requirement is waived based on an individual education 
    assessment conducted by the program) and the individual did not drop 
    out of an elementary or secondary school to enroll in the program, 
    or is enrolled in an institution of higher education on an ability 
    to benefit basis and is considered eligible for funds under section 
    484 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091); and
        ``(6) is a citizen or national of the United States or lawful 
    permanent resident alien of the United States.
    ``(b) Special Rules for Certain Youth Programs.--An individual shall 
be considered to be a participant in a youth corps program described in 
section 122(a)(2) or a program described in section 122(a)(9) that is 
carried out with assistance provided under section 121(a) if the 
individual--
        ``(1) satisfies the requirements specified in subsection (a), 
    except paragraph (4) of such subsection; and
        ``(2) is between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, at the time 
    the individual begins the term of service.
    ``(c) Waiver.--The Corporation may waive the requirements of 
subsection (a)(5)(A) with respect to an individual if the program in 
which the individual seeks to become a participant conducts an 
independent evaluation demonstrating that the individual is incapable of 
obtaining a high school diploma or its equivalent.
``SEC. 138. SELECTION OF NATIONAL SERVICE PARTICIPANTS.
    ``(a) Selection Process.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c) and 
section 131(f), the actual recruitment and selection of an individual to 
serve in a national service program receiving assistance under section 
121 or to fill an approved national service position shall be conducted 
by the State, subdivision of a State, Indian tribe, public or private 
nonprofit organization, institution of higher education, Federal agency, 
or other entity to which the assistance and approved national service 
positions are provided.
    ``(b) Nondiscrimination and Nonpolitical Selection of 
Participants.--The recruitment and selection of individuals to serve in 
national service programs receiving assistance under section 121 or to 
fill approved national service positions shall be consistent with the 
requirements of section 175.
    ``(c) Second Term.--Acceptance into a national service program to 
serve a second term of service under section 139 shall only be available 
to individuals who perform satisfactorily in their first term of 
service.
    ``(d) Recruitment and Placement.--The Corporation and each State 
Commission shall establish a system to recruit individuals who desire to 
perform national service and to assist the placement of these 
individuals in approved national service positions, which may include 
positions available under titles I and II of the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.). The Corporation and State 
Commissions shall disseminate information regarding available approved 
national service positions through Pcooperation with secondary schools, 
institutions of higher education, employment service offices, State 
vocational rehabilitation agencies within the meaning of the 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and other State 
agencies that primarily serve individuals with disabilities, and other 
appropriate entities, particularly those organizations that provide 
outreach to disadvantaged youths and youths who are individuals with 
disabilities.
    ``(e) National Leadership Pool.--
        ``(1) Selection and training.--From among individuals recruited 
    under subsection (d), the Corporation may select individuals with 
    significant leadership potential, as determined by the Corporation, 
    to receive special training to enhance their leadership ability. The 
    leadership training shall be provided by the Corporation directly or 
    through a grant or contract.
        ``(2) Emphasis on certain individuals.--In selecting individuals 
    to receive leadership training under this subsection, the 
    Corporation shall make special efforts to select individuals who 
    have served--
            ``(A) in the Peace Corps;
            ``(B) as VISTA volunteers;
            ``(C) as participants in national service programs receiving 
        assistance under section 121;
            ``(D) as participants in programs receiving assistance under 
        subtitle D of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as 
        in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
        subtitle; or
            ``(E) as members of the Armed Forces of the United States 
        and who were honorably discharged from such service.
        ``(3) Assignment.--At the request of a program that receives 
    assistance under the national service laws, the Corporation may 
    assign an individual who receives leadership training under 
    paragraph (1) to work with the program in a leadership position and 
    carry out assignments not otherwise performed by regular 
    participants. An individual assigned to a program shall be 
    considered to be a participant of the program.
    ``(f) Evaluation of Service.--The Corporation shall issue 
regulations regarding the manner and criteria by which the service of a 
participant shall be evaluated to determine whether the service is 
satisfactory and successful for purposes of eligibility for a second 
term of service or a national service educational award.

``SEC. 139. TERMS OF SERVICE.

    ``(a) In General.--As a condition of receiving a national service 
education award under subtitle D, a participant in an approved national 
service position shall be required to perform full- or part-time 
national service for at least one term of service specified in 
subsection (b).
    ``(b) Term of Service.--
        ``(1) Full-time service.--An individual performing full-time 
    national service in an approved national service position shall 
    agree to participate in the program sponsoring the position for not 
    less than 1,700 hours during a period of not less than 9 months and 
    not more than 1 year.
        ``(2) Part-time service.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), 
    an individual performing part-time national service in an approved 
    national service position shall agree to participate in the program 
    sponsoring the position for not less than 900 hours during a period 
    of--
            ``(A) not more than 2 years; or
            ``(B) not more than 3 years if the individual is enrolled in 
        an institute of higher education while preforming all or a 
        portion of the service.
        ``(3) Reduction in hours of part-time service.--The Corporation 
    may reduce the number of hours required to be served to successfully 
    complete part-time national service to a level determined by the 
    Corporation, except that any reduction in the required term of 
    service shall include a corresponding reduction in the amount of any 
    national service educational award that may be available under 
    subtitle D with regard to that service.
    ``(c) Release From Completing Term of Service.--
        ``(1) Release authorized.--A recipient of assistance under 
    section 121 or a program sponsoring an approved national service 
    position may release a participant from completing a term of service 
    in the position--
            ``(A) for compelling personal circumstances as demonstrated 
        by the participant; or
            ``(B) for cause.
        ``(2) Effect of release for compelling circumstances.--If a 
    participant eligible for release under paragraph (1)(A) is serving 
    in an approved national service position, the recipient of 
    assistance under section 121 or a program sponsoring an approved 
    national service position may elect--
            ``(A) to grant such release and provide to the participant 
        that portion of the national service educational award 
        corresponding to the portion of the term of service actually 
        completed, as provided in section 147(c); or
            ``(B) to permit the participant to temporarily suspend 
        performance of the term of service for a period of up to 2 years 
        (and such additional period as the Corporation may allow for 
        extenuating circumstances) and, upon completion of such period, 
        to allow return to the program with which the individual was 
        serving in order to complete the remainder of the term of 
        service and obtain the entire national service educational 
        award.
        ``(3) Effect of release for cause.--A participant released for 
    cause may not receive any portion of the national service 
    educational award.
``SEC. 140. LIVING ALLOWANCES FOR NATIONAL SERVICE PARTICIPANTS.
    ``(a) Provision of Living Allowance.--
        ``(1) Living allowance required.--Subject to paragraph (3), a 
    national service program carried out using assistance provided under 
    section 121 shall provide to each participant who participates on a 
    full-time basis in the program a living allowance in an amount equal 
    to or greater than the average annual subsistence allowance provided 
    to VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the Domestic Volunteer 
    Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955).
        ``(2) Limitation on federal share.--The amount of the annual 
    living allowance provided under paragraph (1) that may be paid using 
    assistance provided under section 121 and using any other Federal 
    funds shall not exceed 85 percent of the total average annual 
    provided to VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the Domestic 
    Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955).
        ``(3) Maximum living allowance.--Except as provided in 
    subsection (c), the total amount of an annual living allowance that 
    may be provided to a participant in a national service program shall 
    not exceed 200 percent of the average annual subsistence allowance 
    provided to VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the Domestic 
    Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955).
        ``(4) Proration of living allowance.--The amount provided as a 
    living allowance under this subsection shall be prorated in the case 
    of a participant who is authorized to serve a reduced term of 
    service under section 139(b)(3).
        ``(5) Waiver or reduction of living allowance.--The Corporation 
    may waive or reduce the requirement of paragraph (1) with respect to 
    such national service program if such program demonstrates that--
            ``(A) such requirement is inconsistent with the objectives 
        of the program; and
            ``(B) the amount of the living allowance that will be 
        provided to each full-time participant is sufficient to meet the 
        necessary costs of living (including food, housing, and 
        transportation) in the area in which the program is located.
        ``(6) Exemption.--The requirement of paragraph (1) shall not 
    apply to any program that was in existence on the date of the 
    enactment of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993.
    ``(b) Coverage of Certain Employment-Related Taxes.--To the extent a 
national service program that receives assistance under section 121 is 
subject, with respect to the participants in the program, to the taxes 
imposed on an employer under sections 3111 and 3301 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 3111, 3301) and taxes imposed on an 
employer under a workmen's compensation act, the assistance provided to 
the program under section 121 shall include an amount sufficient to 
cover 85 percent of such taxes based upon the lesser of--
        ``(1) the total average annual subsistence allowance provided to 
    VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the Domestic Volunteer Service 
    Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955); and
        ``(2) the annual living allowance established by the program.
    ``(c) Exception From Maximum Living Allowance for Certain 
Assistance.--A professional corps program described in section 122(a)(8) 
that desires to provide a living allowance in excess of the maximum 
allowance authorized in subsection (a)(3) may still apply for such 
assistance, except that--
        ``(1) any assistance provided to the applicant under section 121 
    may not be used to pay for any portion of the allowance;
        ``(2) the applicant shall apply for such assistance only by 
    submitting an application to the Corporation for assistance on a 
    competitive basis; and
        ``(3) the national service program shall be operated directly by 
    the applicant and shall meet urgent, unmet human, educational, 
    environmental, or public safety needs, as determined by the 
    Corporation.
    ``(d) Health Insurance.--
        ``(1) In general.--A State or other recipient of assistance 
    under section 121 shall provide a basic health care policy for each 
    full-time participant in a national service program carried out or 
    supported using the assistance, if the participant is not otherwise 
    covered by a health care policy. Not more than 85 percent of the 
    cost of a premium shall be provided by the Corporation, with the 
    remaining cost paid by the entity receiving assistance under section 
    121. The Corporation shall establish minimum standards that all 
    plans must meet in order to qualify for payment under this part, any 
    circumstances in which an alternative health care policy may be 
    substituted for the basic health care policy, and mechanisms to 
    prohibit participants from dropping existing coverage.
        ``(2) Option.--A State or other recipient of assistance under 
    section 121 may elect to provide from its own funds a health care 
    policy for participants that does not meet all of the standards 
    established by the Corporation if the fair market value of such 
    policy is equal to or greater than the fair market value of a plan 
    that meets the minimum standards established by the Corporation, and 
    is consistent with other applicable laws.
    ``(e) Child Care.--
        ``(1) Availability.--A State or other recipient of assistance 
    under section 121 shall--
            ``(A) make child care available for children of each full-
        time participant who needs child care in order to participate in 
        a national service program carried out or supported by the 
        recipient using the assistance; or
            ``(B) provide a child care allowance to each full-time 
        participant in a national service program who needs such 
        assistance in order to participate in the program.
        ``(2) Guidelines.--The Corporation shall establish guidelines 
    regarding the circumstances under which child care shall be made 
    available under this subsection and the value of any allowance to be 
    provided.
    ``(f) Individualized Support Services.--A State or other recipient 
of assistance under section 121 shall provide reasonable accommodation, 
including auxiliary aids and services (as defined in section 3(1) of the 
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102(1))), based on 
the individualized need of a participant who is a qualified individual 
with a disability (as defined in section 101(8) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
12111(8))).
    ``(g) Waiver of Limitation on Federal Share.--The Corporation may 
waive in whole or in part the limitation on the Federal share specified 
in this section with respect to a particular national service program in 
any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that such a waiver would 
be equitable due to a lack of available financial resources at the local 
level.
    ``(h) Limitation on Number of Terms of Service for Federally 
Subsidized Living Allowance.--No national service program may use 
assistance provided under section 121, or any other Federal funds, to 
provide a living allowance under subsection (a), a health care policy 
under subsection (d), or child care or a child care allowance under 
subsection (e), to an individual for a third, or subsequent, term of 
service described in section 139(b) by the individual in a national 
service program carried out under this subtitle.

``SEC. 141. NATIONAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL AWARDS.

    ``(a) Eligibility Generally.--A participant in a national service 
program carried out using assistance provided to an applicant under 
section 121 shall be eligible for the national service educational award 
described in subtitle D if the participant--
        ``(1) serves in an approved national service position; and
        ``(2) satisfies the eligibility requirements specified in 
    section 146 with respect to service in that approved national 
    service position.
    ``(b) Special Rule for VISTA Volunteers.--A VISTA volunteer who 
serves in an approved national service position shall be ineligible for 
a national service educational award if the VISTA volunteer accepts the 
stipend authorized under section 105(a)(1) of the Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955(a)(1)).''.
    (c) Table of Contents Related to Subtitle C.--Section 1(b) of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 
Stat. 3127) is amended by striking the items relating to subtitle C of 
title I of such Act and inserting the following new items:

              ``Subtitle C--National Service Trust Program

                ``Part I--Investment in National Service

``Sec. 121. Authority to provide assistance and approved national 
service positions.
``Sec. 122. Types of national service programs eligible for program 
assistance.
``Sec. 123. Types of national service positions eligible for approval 
for national service educational awards.
``Sec. 124. Types of program assistance.
``Sec. 125. Training and technical assistance.
``Sec. 126. Other special assistance.

               ``Part II--Application and Approval Process

``Sec. 129. Provision of assistance and approved national service 
positions by competitive and other means.
``Sec. 130. Application for assistance and approved national service 
positions.
``Sec. 131. National service program assistance requirements.
``Sec. 132. Ineligible service categories.
``Sec. 133. Consideration of applications.

                ``Part III--National Service Participants

``Sec. 137. Description of participants.
``Sec. 138. Selection of national service participants.
``Sec. 139. Terms of service.
``Sec. 140. Living allowances for national service participants.
``Sec. 141. National service educational awards.''.

    (d) Living Allowance Under Subtitle I.--Section 199M(a) of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990 (former section 133(a) of 
such Act as redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 
U.S.C. 12553(a)) is amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and 
inserting the following new paragraphs:
        ``(1) Living allowance required.--Subject to paragraph (3), each 
    participant in a full-time youth corps program that receives 
    assistance under this subtitle shall receive a living allowance in 
    an amount equal to or greater than the average annual subsistence 
    allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the 
    Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955).
        ``(2) Limitation on federal share.--The amount of the annual 
    living allowance provided under paragraph (1) that may be paid using 
    assistance provided under this subtitle, section 121, and any other 
    Federal funds shall not exceed 85 percent of the total average 
    annual subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under 
    section 105 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 
    4955).
        ``(3) Maximum living allowance.--The total amount of an annual 
    living allowance that may be provided to a participant in a full-
    time youth corps program that receives assistance under this 
    subtitle shall not exceed 200 percent of the average annual 
    subsistence allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 105 
    of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955).
        ``(4) Waiver or reduction of living allowance.--The Corporation 
    may waive or reduce the requirement of paragraph (1) with respect to 
    such national service program if such program demonstrates that--
            ``(A) such requirement is inconsistent with the objectives 
        of the program; and
            ``(B) the amount of the living allowance that will be 
        provided to each full-time participant is sufficient to meet the 
        necessary costs of living (including food, housing, and 
        transportation) in the area in which the program is located.
        ``(5) Exemption.--The requirement of paragraph (1) shall not 
    apply to any program that was in existence on the date of the 
    enactment of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 
    1993.''.
    (e) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) References.--Subtitle I of title I of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (as so redesignated by subsection 
    (a)(1) of this section) is amended by striking ``Commission'' each 
    place it appears in sections 199A, 199C, 199D, 199F, 199I, 199M, and 
    199N (as redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) and 
    inserting ``Corporation''.
        (2) General authority.--Section 199A of such Act (as 
    redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12541) 
    is amended--
            (A) by striking ``under section 102'';
            (B) by striking ``, to the Secretary of the Interior, or to 
        the Director of ACTION'' and inserting ``or to the Secretary of 
        the Interior''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``To 
        the extent practicable, the Corporation shall apply the 
        provisions of subtitle C in making grants under this section.''.
        (3) Purchase of capital equipment.--Section 199B of such Act (as 
    redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12542) 
    is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 199B. LIMITATION ON PURCHASE OF CAPITAL EQUIPMENT.
    ``Not to exceed 10 percent of the amount of assistance made 
available to a program agency under this subtitle shall be used for the 
purchase of major capital equipment.''.
        (4) State application.--Section 199C of such Act (as 
    redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12543) 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)--
                (i) by striking ``section 122(b)'' and inserting 
            ``section 199A''; and
                (ii) by striking ``, including the information required 
            under subsection (b)'' before the period at the end thereof; 
            and
            (B) by striking subsections (c) and (d).
        (5) Focus of programs.--Section 199D of such Act (as 
    redesignated in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12544) 
    is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (b); and
            (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
        (6) Public lands.--Section 199F(b) of such Act (as redesignated 
    in subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12546(b)) is 
    amended by striking ``section 123'' and inserting ``section 199C''.
        (7) Preference.--Section 199I(a) of such Act (as redesignated in 
    subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12549) is amended by 
    striking ``section 123'' and inserting ``section 199C''.
        (8) Obsolete provisions.--Such subtitle is further amended--
            (A) by striking sections 199H and 199L (as redesignated in 
        subsection (a)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12548, 12552); and
            (B) by redesignating sections 199I, 199J, 199K, 199M, 199N, 
        and 199O (as previosly redesignated) as sections 199H, 199I, 
        199J, 199K, 199L, and 199M, respectively.
    (f) Table of Contents Related to Subtitle I.--Section 1(b) of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 
Stat. 3127) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
195O the following new items:

           ``Subtitle I--American Conservation and Youth Corps

``Sec. 199. Short title.
``Sec. 199A. General authority.
``Sec. 199B. Limitation on purchase of capital equipment.
``Sec. 199C. State application.
``Sec. 199D. Focus of programs.
``Sec. 199E. Related programs.
``Sec. 199F. Public lands or Indian lands.
``Sec. 199G. Training and education services.
``Sec. 199H. Preference for certain projects.
``Sec. 199I. Age and citizenship criteria for enrollment.
``Sec. 199J. Use of volunteers.
``Sec. 199K. Living allowance.
``Sec. 199L. Joint programs.
``Sec. 199M. Federal and State employee status.''.
    SEC. 102. NATIONAL SERVICE TRUST AND PROVISION OF NATIONAL SERVICE 
      EDUCATIONAL AWARDS.
    (a) Establishment of Trust; Provision of Awards.--Subtitle D of 
title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
12571 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:
 ``Subtitle D--National Service Trust and Provision of National Service 
                           Educational Awards
``SEC. 145. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL SERVICE TRUST.
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States an account to be known as the National Service Trust. The 
Trust shall consist of--
        ``(1) from the amounts appropriated to the Corporation and made 
    available to carry out this subtitle pursuant to section 501(a)(2), 
    such amounts as the Corporation may designate to be available for 
    the payment of--
            ``(A) national service educational awards; and
            ``(B) interest expenses pursuant to section 148(e);
        ``(2) any amounts received by the Corporation as gifts, 
    bequests, devises, or otherwise pursuant to section 196(a)(2); and
        ``(3) the interest on, and proceeds from the sale or redemption 
    of, any obligations held by the Trust.
    ``(b) Investment of Trust.--It shall be the duty of the Secretary of 
the Treasury to invest in full the amounts appropriated to the Trust. 
Except as otherwise expressly provided in instruments concerning a gift, 
bequest, devise, or other donation and agreed to by the Corporation, 
such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations of the 
United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and 
interest by the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be 
acquired on original issue at the issue price or by purchase of 
outstanding obligations at the market price. Any obligation acquired by 
the Trust may be sold by the Secretary at the market price.
    ``(c) Expenditures From Trust.--Amounts in the Trust shall be 
available, to the extent provided for in advance by appropriation, for 
payments of national service educational awards in accordance with 
section 148.
    ``(d) Reports to Congress on Receipts and Expenditures.--Not later 
than March 1 of each year, the Corporation shall submit a report to the 
Congress on the financial status of the Trust during the preceding 
fiscal year. Such report shall--
        ``(1) specify the amount deposited to the Trust from the most 
    recent appropriation to the Corporation, the amount received by the 
    Corporation as gifts, bequests, devises, or otherwise pursuant to 
    section 196(a)(2) during the period covered by the report, and any 
    amounts obtained by the Trust pursuant to subsection (a)(3);
        ``(2) identify the number of individuals who are currently 
    performing service to qualify, or have qualified, for national 
    service educational awards;
        ``(3) identify the number of individuals whose expectation to 
    receive national service educational awards during the period 
    covered by the report--
            ``(A) has been reduced pursuant to section 147(c); or
            ``(B) has lapsed pursuant to section 146(d); and
        ``(4) estimate the number of additional approved national 
    service positions that the Corporation will be able to make 
    available under subtitle C on the basis of any accumulated surplus 
    in the Trust above the amount required to provide national service 
    educational awards to individuals identified under paragraph (2), 
    including any amounts available as a result of the circumstances 
    referred to in paragraph (3).
``SEC. 146. INDIVIDUALS ELIGIBLE TO RECEIVE A NATIONAL SERVICE 
EDUCATIONAL AWARD FROM THE TRUST.
    ``(a) Eligible Individuals.--An individual shall receive a national 
service educational award from the National Service Trust if the 
individual--
        ``(1) successfully completes the required term of service 
    described in subsection (b) in an approved national service 
    position;
        ``(2) was 17 years of age or older at the time the individual 
    began serving in the approved national service position or was an 
    out-of-school youth serving in an approved national service position 
    with a youth corps program described in section 122(a)(2) or a 
    program described in section 122(a)(9);
        ``(3) at the time the individual uses the national service 
    educational award--
            ``(A) has received a high school diploma, or the equivalent 
        of such diploma;
            ``(B) is enrolled at an institution of higher education on 
        the basis of meeting the standard described in paragraph (1) or 
        (2) of subsection (a) of section 484 of the Higher Education Act 
        of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091) and meets the requirements of 
        subsection (a) of such section; or
            ``(C) has received a waiver described in section 137(c); and
        ``(3) has received a high school diploma, or the equivalent of 
    such diploma, at the time the individual uses the national service 
    educational award, unless this requirement has been waived based on 
    an individual education assessment conducted by the program; and
        ``(4) is a citizen or national of the United States or lawful 
    permanent resident alien of the United States.
    ``(b) Term of Service.--The term of service for an approved national 
service position shall not be less than the full- or part-time term of 
service specified in section 139(b).
    ``(c) Limitation on Number of Terms of Service for Awards.--Although 
an individual may serve more than 2 terms of service described in 
subsection (b) in an approved national service position, the individual 
shall receive a national service educational award from the National 
Service Trust only on the basis of the first and second of such terms of 
service.
    ``(d) Time for Use of Educational Award.--
        ``(1) Seven-year requirement.--An individual eligible to receive 
    a national service educational award under this section may not use 
    such award after the end of the 7-year period beginning on the date 
    the individual completes the term of service in an approved national 
    service position that is the basis of the award.
        ``(2) Exception.--The Corporation may extend the period within 
    which an individual may use a national service educational award if 
    the Corporation determines that the individual--
            ``(A) was unavoidably prevented from using the national 
        service educational award during the original 7-year period; or
            ``(B) performed another term of service in an approved 
        national service position during that period.
    ``(e) Suspension of Eligibility for Drug-Related Offenses.--
        ``(1) In general.--An individual who, after qualifying under 
    this section as an eligible individual, has been convicted under any 
    Federal or State law of the possession or sale of a controlled 
    substance shall not be eligible to receive a national service 
    educational award during the period beginning on the date of such 
    conviction and ending after the interval specified in the following 
    table:


                                                 ``If convicted of:                                                   
                                             The possession of a controlled substance:  Ineligibility period is:      
                                                 1st conviction.......................      1 year                    
                                                 2nd conviction.......................      2 years                   
                                                 3rd conviction.......................      indefinite                
                                                                                                                      
                                             The sale of a controlled substance:                                      
                                                 1st conviction.......................      2 years                   
                                                 2nd conviction.......................      indefinite                
                                                                                                                      

  
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
        ``(2) Rehabilitation.--An individual whose eligibility has been 
    suspended under paragraph (1) shall resume eligibility before the 
    end of the period determined under such paragraph if the individual 
    satisfactorily completes a drug rehabilitation program that complies 
    with such criteria as the Corporation shall prescribe for purposes 
    of this paragraph.
        ``(3) First convictions.--An individual whose eligibility has 
    been suspended under paragraph (1) and is convicted of a first 
    offense may resume eligibility before the end of the period 
    determined under such paragraph if the individual demonstrates that 
    he or she has enrolled or been accepted for enrollment in a drug 
    rehabilitation program described in paragraph (2).
        ``(4) Definitions.--As used in this subsection, the term 
    `controlled substance' has the meaning given in section 102(6) of 
    the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(6)).
        ``(5) Effective date.--This subsection shall be effective upon 
    publication by the Corporation in the Federal Register of criteria 
    prescribed under paragraph (2).
    ``(f) Authority To Establish Demonstration Programs.--The 
Corporation may establish by regulation demonstration programs for the 
creation and evaluation of innovative volunteer and community service 
programs.
``SEC. 147. DETERMINATION OF THE AMOUNT OF THE NATIONAL SERVICE 
EDUCATIONAL AWARD.
    ``(a) Amount for Full-Time National Service.--Except as provided in 
subsection (c), an individual described in section 146(a) who 
successfully completes a required term of full-time national service in 
an approved national service position shall receive a national service 
educational award having a value, for each of not more than 2 of such 
terms of service, equal to 90 percent of--
        ``(1) one-half of an amount equal to the aggregate basic 
    educational assistance allowance provided in section 3015(b)(1) of 
    title 38, United States Code (as in effect on July 28, 1993), for 
    the period referred to in section 3013(a)(1) of such title (as in 
    effect on July 28, 1993), for a member of the Armed Forces who is 
    entitled to such an allowance under section 3011 of such title and 
    whose initial obligated period of active duty is 2 years; less
        ``(2) one-half of the aggregate basic contribution required to 
    be made by the member in section 3011(b) of such title (as in effect 
    on July 28, 1993).
    ``(b) Amount for Part-Time National Service.--Except as provided in 
subsection (c), an individual described in section 146(a) who 
successfully completes a required term of part-time national service in 
an approved national service position shall receive a national service 
educational award having a value, for each of not more than 2 of such 
terms of service, equal to 50 percent of value of the national service 
educational award determined under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Award for Partial Completion of Service.--If an individual 
serving in an approved national service position is released in 
accordance with section 139(c)(1)(A) from completing the full-time or 
part-time term of service agreed to by the individual, the Corporation 
may provide the individual with that portion of the national service 
educational award approved for the individual that corresponds to the 
quantity of the term of service actually completed by the individual.
``SEC. 148. DISBURSEMENT OF NATIONAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL AWARDS.
    ``(a) In General.--Amounts in the Trust shall be available--
        ``(1) to repay student loans in accordance with subsection (b);
        ``(2) to pay all or part of the cost of attendance at an 
    institution of higher education in accordance with subsection (c);
        ``(3) to pay expenses incurred in participating in an approved 
    school-to-work program in accordance with subsection (d); and
        ``(4) to pay interest expenses in accordance with regulations 
    prescribed pursuant to subsection (e).
    ``(b) Use of Educational Award To Repay Outstanding Student Loans.--
        ``(1) Application by eligible individuals.--An eligible 
    individual under section 146 who desires to apply the national 
    service educational award of the individual to the repayment of 
    qualified student loans shall submit, in a manner prescribed by the 
    Corporation, an application to the Corporation that--
            ``(A) identifies, or permits the Corporation to identify 
        readily, the holder or holders of such loans;
            ``(B) indicates, or permits the Corporation to determine 
        readily, the amounts of principal and interest outstanding on 
        the loans;
            ``(C) specifies, if the outstanding balance is greater than 
        the amount disbursed under paragraph (2), which of the loans the 
        individual prefers to be paid by the Corporation; and
            ``(D) contains or is accompanied by such other information 
        as the Corporation may require.
        ``(2) Disbursement of repayments.--Upon receipt of an 
    application from an eligible individual of an application that 
    complies with paragraph (1), the Corporation shall, as promptly as 
    practicable consistent with paragraph (5), disburse the amount of 
    the national service educational award that the eligible individual 
    has earned. Such disbursement shall be made by check or other means 
    that is payable to the holder of the loan and requires the 
    endorsement or other certification by the eligible individual.
        ``(3) Application of disbursed amounts.--If the amount disbursed 
    under paragraph (2) is less than the principal and accrued interest 
    on any qualified student loan, such amount shall be applied 
    according to the specified priorities of the individual.
        ``(4) Reports by holders.--Any holder receiving a loan payment 
    pursuant to this subsection shall submit to the Corporation such 
    information as the Corporation may require to verify that such 
    payment was applied in accordance with this subsection and any 
    regulations prescribed to carry out this subsection.
        ``(5) Notification of individual.--The Corporation upon 
    disbursing the national service educational award, shall notify the 
    individual of the amount paid for each outstanding loan and the date 
    of payment.
        ``(6) Authority to aggregate payments.--The Corporation may, by 
    regulation, provide for the aggregation of payments to holders under 
    this subsection.
        ``(7) Definition of qualified student loans.--As used in this 
    subsection, the term `qualified student loans' means--
            ``(A) any loan made, insured, or guaranteed pursuant to 
        title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et 
        seq.), other than a loan to a parent of a student pursuant to 
        section 428B of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1078-2); and
            ``(B) any loan made pursuant to title VII or VIII of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 292a et seq.).
        ``(8) Definition of holder.--As used in this subsection, the 
    term `holder' with respect to any eligible loan means the original 
    lender or, if the loan is subsequently sold, transferred, or 
    assigned to some other person, and such other person acquires a 
    legally enforceable right to receive payments from the borrower, 
    such other person.
    ``(c) Use of Educational Awards To Pay Current Educational 
Expenses.--
        ``(1) Application by eligible individual.--An eligible 
    individual under section 146 who desires to apply the individual's 
    national service educational award to the payment of current full-
    time or part-time educational expenses shall, on a form prescribed 
    by the Corporation, submit an application to the institution of 
    higher education in which the student will be enrolled that contains 
    such information as the Corporation may require to verify the 
    individual's eligibility.
        ``(2) Submission of requests for payment by institutions.--An 
    institution of higher education that receives one or more 
    applications that comply with paragraph (1) shall submit to the 
    Corporation a statement, in a manner prescribed by the Corporation, 
    that--
            ``(A) identifies each eligible individual filing an 
        application under paragraph (1) for a disbursement of the 
        Pindividual's national service educational award under this 
        subsection;
            ``(B) specifies the amounts for which such eligible 
        individuals are, consistent with paragraph (6), qualified for 
        disbursement under this subsection;
            ``(C) certifies that--
                ``(i) the institution of higher education has in effect 
            a program participation agreement under section 487 of the 
            Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094);
                ``(ii) the institution's eligibility to participate in 
            any of the programs under title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 
            1070 et seq.) has not been limited, suspended, or 
            terminated; and
                ``(iii) individuals using national service educational 
            awards received under this subtitle to pay for educational 
            costs do not comprise more than 15 percent of the total 
            student population of the institution; and
            ``(D) contains such provisions concerning financial 
        compliance as the Corporation may require.
        ``(3) Disbursement of payments.--Upon receipt of a statement 
    from an institution of higher education that complies with paragraph 
    (2), the Corporation shall, subject to paragraph (4), disburse the 
    total amount of the national service educational awards for which 
    eligible individuals who have submitted applications to that 
    institution under paragraph (1) are scheduled to receive. Such 
    disbursement shall be made by check or other means that is payable 
    to the institution and requires the endorsement or other 
    certification by the eligible individual.
        ``(4) Multiple disbursements required.--The total amount 
    required to be disbursed to an institution of higher education under 
    paragraph (3) for any period of enrollment shall be disbursed by the 
    Corporation in 2 or more installments, none of which exceeds \1/2\ 
    of such total amount. The interval between the first and second such 
    installment shall not be less than \1/2\ of such period of 
    enrollment, except as necessary to permit the second installment to 
    be paid at the beginning of the second semester, quarter, or similar 
    division of such period of enrollment.
        ``(5) Refund rules.--The Corporation shall, by regulation, 
    provide for the refund to the Corporation (and the crediting to the 
    national service educational award of an eligible individual) of 
    amounts disbursed to institutions for the benefit of eligible 
    individuals who withdraw or otherwise fail to complete the period of 
    enrollment for which the assistance was provided. Such regulations 
    shall be consistent with the fair and equitable refund policies 
    required of institutions pursuant to section 484B of the Higher 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091b). Amounts refunded to the 
    Trust pursuant to this paragraph may be used by the Corporation to 
    fund additional approved national service positions under subtitle 
    C.
        ``(6) Maximum award.--The portion of an eligible individual's 
    total available national service educational award thatP
    may be disbursed under this subsection for any period of enrollment 
    shall not exceed the difference between--
            ``(A) the eligible individual's cost of attendance for such 
        period of enrollment, determined in accordance with section 472 
        of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll); and
            ``(B) the sum of--
                ``(i) the student's estimated financial assistance for 
            such period under part A of title IV of such Act (20 U.S.C. 
            1070 et seq.); and
                ``(ii) the student's veterans' education benefits, 
            determined in accordance with section 480(c) of such Act (20 
            U.S.C. 1087vv(c)).
    ``(d) Use of Educational Award To Participate in Approved School-to-
Work Programs.--The Corporation shall by regulation provide for the 
payment of national service educational awards to permit eligible 
individuals to participate in school-to-work programs approved by the 
Secretaries of Labor and Education.
    ``(e) Interest Payments During Forbearance on Loan Repayment.--The 
Corporation shall provide by regulation for the payment on behalf of an 
eligible individual of interest that accrues during a period for which 
such individual has obtained forbearance in the repayment of a qualified 
student loan (as defined in subsection (b)(6)), if the eligible 
individual successfully completes the individual's required term of 
service (as determined under section 146(b)). Such regulations shall be 
prescribed after consultation with the Secretary of Education.
    ``(f) Exception.--With the approval of the Director, an approved 
national service program funded under section 121, may offer 
participants the option of waiving their right to receive a national 
service educational award in order to receive an alternative post-
service benefit funded by the program entirely with non-Federal funds.
    ``(g) Definition of Institution of Higher Education.--
Notwithstanding section 101 of this Act, for purposes of this section 
the term `institution of higher education' has the meaning provided by 
section 481(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1088(a)).''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the items relating to subtitle D of title I of such Act and 
inserting the following new items:

 ``Subtitle D--National Service Trust and Provision of National Service 
                           Educational Awards

``Sec. 145. Establishment of the National Service Trust.
``Sec. 146. Individuals eligible to receive a national service 
educational award from the Trust.
``Sec. 147. Determination of the amount of the national service 
educational award.
``Sec. 148. Disbursement of national service educational awards.''.

    (c) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Forbearance in the collection of stafford loans.--Section 
    428 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078) is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(1)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (W), (X), and (Y) as 
            subparagraphs (X), (Y), and (Z), respectively; and
                (ii) by inserting immediately after subparagraph (V) the 
            following new subparagraph:
            ``(W)(i) provides that, upon written request, a lender shall 
        grant a borrower forbearance on such terms as are otherwise 
        consistent with the regulations of the Secretary, during periods 
        in which the borrower is serving in a national service position, 
        for which the borrower receives a national service educational 
        award under the National and Community Service Trust Act of 
        1993;
            ``(ii) provides that clauses (iii) and (iv) of subparagraph 
        (V) shall also apply to a forbearance granted under this 
        subparagraph; and
            ``(iii) provides that interest shall continue to accrue on a 
        loan for which a borrower receives forbearance under this 
        subparagraph and shall be capitalized or paid by the 
        borrower;''; and
            (B) in subsection (c)(3)(A), by striking ``subsection 
        (b)(1)(V)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (V) and (W) of 
        subsection (b)(1)''.
        (2) Eligibility for stafford loan forgiveness.--Section 428J of 
    the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1078-10) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``October 1, 1992'' 
        and inserting ``October 1, 1989''; and
            (B) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
        ``(5) Ineligibility of national service educational award 
    recipients.--No student borrower may, for the same volunteer 
    service, receive a benefit under both this section and subtitle D of 
    title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
    12571 et seq.).''.
        (3) Eligibility for perkins loan forgiveness.--Section 465(a) of 
    the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ee(a)) is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) No borrower may, for the same volunteer service, receive a 
    benefit under both this section and subtitle D of title I of the 
    National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et 
    seq.).''.
        (4) Definition of income.--Section 480(a)(2) of the Higher 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(a)(2)) is amended by 
    inserting after ``by an individual'' the following: ``, and no 
    portion of a national service educational award or post-service 
    benefit received by an individual under title I of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.),''.
        (5) Impact on general needs analysis.--Section 480(j) of the 
    Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(j)) is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a national service 
    educational award or post-service benefit under title I of the 
    National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12571 et seq.) 
    shall not be treated as financial assistance for purposes of section 
    471(3).''.
    SEC. 103. SCHOOL-BASED AND COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICE-LEARNING 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) Amendments to Serve-America Programs.--
        (1) Purpose.--The purpose of this subsection is to improve the 
    Serve-America programs established under part I of subtitle B of the 
    National and Community Service Act of 1990, and to enable the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service, and the entities 
    receiving financial assistance under such part, to--
            (A) work with teachers in elementary schools and secondary 
        schools within a community, and with community-based agencies, 
        to create and offer service-learning opportunities for all 
        school-age youth;
            (B) educate teachers, and faculty providing teacher training 
        and retraining, about service-learning, and incorporate service-
        learning opportunities into classroom teaching to strengthen 
        academic learning;
            (C) coordinate the work of adult volunteers who work with 
        elementary and secondary schools as part of their community 
        service activities; and
            (D) work with employers in the communities to ensure that 
        projects introduce the students to various careers and expose 
        the students to needed further education and training.
        (2) Programs.--Subtitle B of title I of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.) is amended 
    by striking the subtitle heading and all that follows through the 
    end of part I and inserting the following:
``Subtitle B--School-Based and Community-Based Service-Learning Programs

                    ``PART I--SERVE-AMERICA PROGRAMS

             ``Subpart A--School-Based Programs for Students

``SEC. 111. AUTHORITY TO ASSIST STATES AND INDIAN TRIBES.
    ``(a) Use of Funds.--The Corporation, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Education, may make grants under section 112(b)(1), and 
allotments under subsections (a) and (b)(2) of section 112, to States 
(through State educational agencies), and to Indian tribes, to pay for 
the Federal share of--
        ``(1) planning and building the capacity of the States or Indian 
    tribes (which may be accomplished through grants or contracts with 
    qualified organizations) to implement school-based service-learning 
    programs, including--
            ``(A) providing training for teachers, supervisors, 
        personnel from community-based agencies (particularly with 
        regard to the utilization of participants), and trainers, to be 
        conducted by qualified individuals or organizations that have 
        experience with service-learning;
            ``(B) developing service-learning curricula to be integrated 
        into academic programs, including the age-appropriate learning 
        component described in section 114(d)(2);
            ``(C) forming local partnerships described in paragraph (2) 
        or (4) to develop school-based service-learning programs in 
        accordance with this subpart;
            ``(D) devising appropriate methods for research and 
        evaluation of the educational value of service-learning and the 
        effect of service-learning activities on communities; and
            ``(E) establishing effective outreach and dissemination of 
        information to ensure the broadest possible involvement of 
        community-based agencies with demonstrated effectiveness in 
        working with school-age youth in their communities;
        ``(2) implementing, operating, or expanding school-based 
    service-learning programs, which may include paying for the cost of 
    the recruitment, training, supervision, placement, salaries, and 
    benefits of service-learning coordinators, through State 
    distribution of Federal funds made available under this subpart to 
    projects operated by local partnerships among--
            ``(A) local educational agencies; and
            ``(B) one or more community partners that--
                ``(i) shall include a public or private nonprofit 
            organization that--

                    ``(I) has a demonstrated expertise in the provision 
                of services to meet unmet human, educational, 
                environmental, or public safety needs;
                    ``(II) was in existence at least 1 year before the 
                date on which the organization submitted an application 
                under section 114; and
                    ``(III) will make projects available for 
                participants, who shall be students; and

                ``(ii) may include a private for-profit business or 
            private elementary or secondary school;
        ``(3) planning of school-based service-learning programs, 
    through State distribution of Federal funds made available under 
    this subpart to local educational agencies, which planning may 
    include paying for the cost of--
            ``(A) the salaries and benefits of service-learning 
        coordinators; or
            ``(B) the recruitment, training, supervision, and placement 
        of service-learning coordinators who are participants in a 
        program under subtitle C or receive a national service 
        educational award under subtitle D,
    who will identify the community partners described in paragraph 
    (2)(B) and assist in the design and implementation of a program 
    described in paragraph (2); and
        ``(4) implementing, operating, or expanding school-based 
    service-learning programs involving adult volunteers to utilize 
    service-learning to improve the education of students, through State 
    distribution of Federal funds made available under this part to 
    local partnerships among--
            ``(A) local educational agencies; and
            ``(B) one or more--
                ``(i) public or private nonprofit organizations;
                ``(ii) other educational agencies; or
                ``(iii) private for-profit businesses,
    that coordinate and operate projects for participants, who shall be 
    students.
    ``(b) Duties of Service-Learning Coordinator.--A service-learning 
coordinator referred to in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) shall 
provide services to a local educational agency by--
        ``(1) providing technical assistance and information to, and 
    facilitating the training of, teachers who want to use service-
    learning in their classrooms;
        ``(2) assisting local partnerships described in subsection (a) 
    in the planning, development, and execution of service-learning 
    projects; and
        ``(3) carrying out such other duties as the local educational 
    agency may determine to be appropriate.
    ``(c) Related Expenses.--A partnership, local educational agency, or 
other qualified organization that receives financial assistance under 
this subpart may, in carrying out the activities described in subsection 
(a), use such assistance to pay for the Federal share of reasonable 
costs related to the supervision of participants, program 
administration, transportation, insurance, and evaluations, and for 
other reasonable expenses related to the activities.
``SEC. 111A. AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL APPLICANTS IN NONPARTICIPATING 
STATES.
    ``In any fiscal year in which a State does not submit an application 
under section 113, for an allotment under subsection (a) or (b)(2) of 
section 112, that meets the requirements of section 113 and such other 
requirements as the Chief Executive Officer may determine to be 
appropriate, the Corporation may use the allotment of that State to make 
direct grants to pay for the Federal share of the cost of--
        ``(1) carrying out the activities described in paragraph (2) or 
    (4) of section 111(a), to a local partnership described in such 
    paragraph; or
        ``(2) carrying out the activities described in paragraph (3) of 
    such section, to an agency described in such paragraph,
that is located in the State.
``SEC. 111B. AUTHORITY TO ASSIST PUBLIC OR PRIVATE NONPROFIT 
ORGANIZATIONS.
    ``(a) In General.--The Corporation may make grants under section 
112(b)(1) to public or private nonprofit organizations that--
        ``(1) have experience with service-learning;
        ``(2) were in existence at least 1 year before the date on which 
    the organization submitted an application under section 114(a); and
        ``(3) meet such other criteria as the Chief Executive Officer 
    may establish.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Such organizations may use grants made under 
subsection (a) to make grants to partnerships described in paragraph (2) 
or (4) of section 111(a) to implement, operate, or expand school-based 
service-learning programs as described in such section and provide 
technical assistance and training to appropriate persons.

``SEC. 112. GRANTS AND ALLOTMENTS.

    ``(a) Indian Tribes and Territories.--Of the amounts appropriated to 
carry out this subpart for any fiscal year, the Corporation shall 
reserve an amount of not more than 3 percent for payments to Indian 
tribes, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, to be allotted in 
accordance with their respective needs. The Corporation may also make 
payments from such amount to Palau, in accordance with its needs, until 
such time as the Compact of Free Association with Palau is ratified.
    ``(b) Grants and Allotments Through States.--The Corporation shall 
use the remainder of the funds appropriated to carry out this subpart 
for any fiscal year as follows:
        ``(1) Grants.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), from 25 
    percent of such remainder, the Corporation may make grants, on a 
    competitive basis, to--
            ``(A) States and Indian tribes; or
            ``(B) as described in section 111B, to grantmaking entities.
        ``(2) Allotments.--
            ``(A) School-age youth.--Except as provided in paragraph 
        (3), from 37.5 percent of such remainder, the Corporation shall 
        allot to each State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 
        percent of such remainder as the number of school-age youth in 
        the State bears to the total number of school-age youth of all 
        States.
            ``(B) Allocation under elementary and secondary education 
        act of 1965.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), from 37.5 
        percent of such remainder, the Corporation shall allot to each 
        State an amount that bears the same ratio to 37.5 percent of 
        such remainder as the allocation to the State for the previous 
        fiscal year under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2711 et seq.) bears 
        to such allocations to all States.
        ``(3) Minimum amount.--No State shall receive, under paragraph 
    (2), an allotment that is less than the allotment such State 
    received for fiscal year 1993 under section 112(b) of this Act, as 
    in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this part. If 
    the amount of funds made available in a fiscal year to carry out 
    paragraph (2) is insufficient to make such allotments, the 
    Corporation shall make available sums from the 25 percent described 
    in paragraph (1) for such fiscal year to make such allotments.
        ``(4) Definition.--Notwithstanding section 101(26), for purposes 
    of this subsection, the term `State' means each of the several 
    States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto 
    Rico.
    ``(c) Reallotment.--If the Corporation determines that the allotment 
of a State or Indian tribe under this section will not be required for a 
fiscal year because the State or Indian tribe does not submit an 
application for the allotment under section 113 that meets the 
requirements of such section and such other requirements as the Chief 
Executive Officer may determine to be appropriate, the Corporation 
shall, after making any grants under section 111A to a partnership or 
agency described in such section, make any remainder of such allotment 
available for reallotment to such other States, and Indian tribes, with 
approved applications submitted under section 113, as the Corporation 
may determine to be appropriate.
    ``(d) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), if less 
than $20,000,000 is appropriated for any fiscal year to carry out this 
subpart, the Corporation shall award grants to States and Indian tribes, 
from the amount so appropriated, on a competitive basis to pay for the 
Federal share of the activities described in section 111.

``SEC. 113. STATE OR TRIBAL APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Submission.--To be eligible to receive a grant under section 
112(b)(1), an allotment under subsection (a) or (b)(2) of section 112, a 
reallotment under section 112(c), or a grant under section 112(d), a 
State, acting through the State educational agency, or an Indian tribe, 
shall prepare, submit to the Corporation, and obtain approval of, an 
application at such time and in such manner as the Chief Executive 
Officer may reasonably require.
    ``(b) Contents.--An application that is submitted under subsection 
(a) with respect to service-learning programs described in section 111 
shall include--
        ``(1) a 3-year strategic plan, or a revision of a previously 
    approved 3-year strategic plan, for promoting service-learning 
    through the programs, which plan shall contain such information as 
    the Chief Executive Officer may reasonably require, including 
    information demonstrating that the programs will be carried out in a 
    manner consistent with the approved strategic plan;
        ``(2) assurances that--
            ``(A) the applicant will keep such records and provide such 
        information to the Corporation with respect to the programs as 
        may be required for fiscal audits and program evaluation; and
            ``(B) the applicant will comply with the nonduplication and 
        nondisplacement requirements of section 177 and the grievance 
        procedure requirements of section 176(f); and
        ``(3) such additional information as the Chief Executive Officer 
    may reasonably require.

``SEC. 114. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Application to Corporation To Make Grants for School-Based 
Service-Learning Programs.--
        ``(1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant in 
    accordance with section 111B(a) to make grants relating to school-
    based service-learning programs described in section 111(a), a 
    grantmaking entity shall prepare, submit to the Corporation, and 
    obtain approval of, an application.
        ``(2) Submission.--Such application shall be submitted at such 
    time and in such manner, and shall contain such information, as the 
    Chief Executive Officer may reasonably require. Such application 
    shall include a proposal to assist such programs in more than 1 
    State.
    ``(b) Direct Application to Corporation To Carry Out School-Based 
Service-Learning Programs in Nonparticipating States.--To be eligible to 
receive a grant from the Corporation in the circumstances described in 
section 111A to carry out an activity as described in such section, a 
partnership or agency described in such section shall prepare, submit to 
the Corporation, and obtain approval of, an application. Such 
application shall be submitted at such time and in such manner, and 
shall contain such information, as the Chief Executive Officer may 
reasonably require.
    ``(c) Application to State or Indian Tribe To Receive Assistance To 
Carry Out School-Based Service-Learning Programs.--
        ``(1) In general.--Any--
            ``(A) qualified organization that desires to receive 
        financial assistance under this subpart from a State or Indian 
        tribe for an activity described in section 111(a)(1);
            ``(B) partnership described in section 111(a)(2) that 
        desires to receive such assistance from a State, Indian tribe, 
        or grantmaking entity for an activity described in section 
        111(a)(2);
            ``(C) agency described in section 111(a)(3) that desires to 
        receive such assistance from a State or Indian tribe for an 
        activity described in such section; or
            ``(D) partnership described in section 111(a)(4) that 
        desires to receive such assistance from a State or Indian tribe 
        for an activity described in such section,
    to be carried out through a service-learning program described in 
    section 111, shall prepare, submit to the State educational agency, 
    Indian tribe, or grantmaking entity, and obtain approval of, an 
    application for the program.
        ``(2) Submission.--Such application shall be submitted at such 
    time and in such manner, and shall contain such information, as the 
    agency, tribe, or entity may reasonably require.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Corporation shall by regulation establish 
standards for the information and assurances required to be contained in 
an application submitted under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a 
service-learning program described in section 111, including, at a 
minimum, assurances that--
        ``(1) prior to the placement of a participant, the entity 
    carrying out the program will consult with the appropriate local 
    labor organization, if any, representing employees in the area who 
    are engaged in the same or similar work as that proposed to be 
    carried out by such program, to prevent the displacement and protect 
    the rights of such employees;
        ``(2) the entity carrying out the program will develop an age-
    appropriate learning component for participants in the program that 
    shall include a chance for participants to analyze and apply their 
    service experiences; and
        ``(3) the entity carrying out the program will comply with the 
    nonduplication and nondisplacement requirements of section 177 and 
    the grievance procedure requirements of section 176(f).
    ``(e) Limitation on Same Project in Multiple Applications.--No 
applicant shall submit an application under section 113 or this section, 
and the Corporation shall reject an application that is submitted under 
section 113 or this section, if the application describes a project 
proposed to be conducted using assistance requested by the applicant and 
the project is already described in another application pending before 
the Corporation.

``SEC. 115. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Criteria for Applications.--In approving applications for 
financial assistance under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of section 
112, the Corporation shall consider such criteria with respect to 
sustainability, replicability, innovation, and quality of programs under 
this subpart as the Chief Executive Officer may by regulation specify. 
In providing assistance under this subpart, a State educational agency, 
Indian tribe, or grantmaking entity shall consider such criteria.
    ``(b) Priority for Local Applications.--In providing assistance 
under this subpart, a State educational agency or Indian tribe, or the 
Corporation if section 111A or 111B applies, shall give priority to 
entities that submit applications under section 114 with respect to 
service-learning programs described in section 111 that--
        ``(1) involve participants in the design and operation of the 
    program;
        ``(2) are in the greatest need of assistance, such as programs 
    targeting low-income areas;
        ``(3) involve--
            ``(A) students from public elementary or secondary schools, 
        and students from private elementary or secondary schools, 
        serving together; or
            ``(B) students of different ages, races, sexes, ethnic 
        groups, disabilities, or economic backgrounds, serving together; 
        or
        ``(4) are integrated into the academic program of the 
    participants.
    ``(c) Rejection of Applications.--If the Corporation rejects an 
application submitted by a State under section 113 for an allotment 
under section 112(b)(2), the Corporation shall promptly notify the State 
of the reasons for the rejection of the application. The Corporation 
shall provide the State with a reasonable opportunity to revise and 
resubmit the application and shall provide technical assistance, if 
needed, to the State as part of the resubmission process. The 
Corporation shall promptly reconsider such resubmitted application.
``SEC. 115A. PARTICIPATION OF STUDENTS AND TEACHERS FROM PRIVATE 
SCHOOLS.
    ``(a) In General.--To the extent consistent with the number of 
students in the State or Indian tribe or in the school district of the 
local educational agency involved who are enrolled in private nonprofit 
elementary and secondary schools, such State, Indian tribe, or agency 
shall (after consultation with appropriate private school 
representatives) make provision--
        ``(1) for the inclusion of services and arrangements for the 
    benefit of such students so as to allow for the equitable 
    participation of such students in the programs implemented to carry 
    out the objectives and provide the benefits described in this 
    subpart; and
        ``(2) for the training of the teachers of such students so as to 
    allow for the equitable participation of such teachers in the 
    programs implemented to carry out the objectives and provide the 
    benefits described in this subpart.
    ``(b) Waiver.--If a State, Indian tribe, or local educational agency 
is prohibited by law from providing for the participation of students or 
teachers from private nonprofit schools as required by subsection (a), 
or if the Corporation determines that a State, Indian tribe, or local 
educational agency substantially fails or is unwilling to provide for 
such participation on an equitable basis, the Chief Executive Officer 
shall waive such requirements and shall arrange for the provision of 
services to such students and teachers. Such waivers shall be subject to 
consultation, withholding, notice, and judicial review requirements in 
accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 1017(b) of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2727(b)).

``SEC. 116. FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

    ``(a) Share.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Federal share attributable to this 
    subpart of the cost of carrying out a program for which a grant or 
    allotment is made under this subpart may not exceed--
            ``(A) 90 percent of the total cost of the program for the 
        first year for which the program receives assistance under this 
        subpart;
            ``(B) 80 percent of the total cost of the program for the 
        second year for which the program receives assistance under this 
        subpart;
            ``(C) 70 percent of the total cost of the program for the 
        third year for which the program receives assistance under this 
        subpart; and
            ``(D) 50 percent of the total cost of the program for the 
        fourth year, and for any subsequent year, for which the program 
        receives assistance under this subpart.
        ``(2) Calculation.--In providing for the remaining share of the 
    cost of carrying out such a program, each recipient of assistance 
    under this subpart--
            ``(A) shall provide for such share through a payment in cash 
        or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, 
        or services; and
            ``(B) may provide for such share through State sources, 
        local sources, or Federal sources (other than funds made 
        available under the national service laws).
    ``(b) Waiver.--The Chief Executive Officer may waive the 
requirements of subsection (a) in whole or in part with respect to any 
such program in any fiscal year if the Corporation determines that such 
a waiver would be equitable due to a lack of available financial 
resources at the local level.

``SEC. 116A. LIMITATIONS ON USES OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) Administrative Costs.--
        ``(1) Limitation.--Not more than 5 percent of the amount of 
    assistance provided to a State educational agency, Indian tribe, or 
    grantmaking entity that is the original recipient of a grant or 
    allotment under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of section 112 for 
    a fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative costs incurred 
    by--
            ``(A) the original recipient; or
            ``(B) the entity carrying out the service-learning programs 
        supported with the assistance.
        ``(2) Rules on use.--The Chief Executive Officer may by rule 
    prescribe the manner and extent to which--
            ``(A) such assistance may be used to cover administrative 
        costs; and
            ``(B) that portion of the assistance available to cover 
        administrative costs should be distributed between--
                ``(i) the original recipient; and
                ``(ii) the entity carrying out the service-learning 
            programs supported with the assistance.
    ``(b) Capacity-Building Activities.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), not less 
    than 10 percent and not more than 15 percent of the amount of 
    assistance provided to a State educational agency or Indian tribe 
    that is the original recipient of a grant or allotment under 
    subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of section 112 for a fiscal year 
    may be used to build capacity through training, technical 
    assistance, curriculum development, and coordination activities, 
    described in section 111(a)(1).
        ``(2) Waiver.--The Chief Executive Officer may waive the 
    requirements of paragraph (1) in order to permit an agency or a 
    tribe to use not less than 10 percent and not more than 20 percent 
    of such amount to build capacity as provided in paragraph (1). To be 
    eligible to receive such a waiver such an agency or tribe shall 
    submit an application to the Chief Executive Officer at such time, 
    in such manner, and containing such information as the Chief 
    Executive Officer may require.
    ``(c) Local Uses of Funds.--Funds made available under this subpart 
may not be used to pay any stipend, allowance, or other financial 
support to any student who is a participant under this subtitle, except 
reimbursement for transportation, meals, and other reasonable out-of-
pocket expenses directly related to participation in a program assisted 
under this subpart.

``SEC. 116B. DEFINITIONS.

    ``As used in this subpart:
        ``(1) Grantmaking entity.--The term `grantmaking entity' means 
    an organization described in section 111B(a).
        ``(2) School-based.--The term `school-based' means based in an 
    elementary school or a secondary school.
        ``(3) Student.--Notwithstanding section 101(29), the term 
    `student' means an individual who is enrolled in an elementary or 
    secondary school on a full- or part-time basis.

   ``Subpart B--Community-Based Service Programs for School-Age Youth

``SEC. 117. DEFINITIONS.

    ``As used in this subpart:
        ``(1) Community-based service program.--The term `community-
    based service program' means a program described in section 
    117A(b)(1)(A).
        ``(2) Grantmaking entity.--The term `grantmaking entity' means a 
    qualified organization that--
            ``(A) submits an application under section 117C(a) to make 
        grants to qualified organizations;
            ``(B) was in existence at least 1 year before the date on 
        which the organization submitted the application; and
            ``(C) meets such other criteria as the Chief Executive 
        Officer shall establish.
        ``(3) Qualified organization.--The term `qualified organization' 
    means a public or private nonprofit organization with experience 
    working with school-age youth that meets such criteria as the Chief 
    Executive Officer may establish.

``SEC. 117A. GENERAL AUTHORITY.

    ``(a) Grants.--From the funds appropriated to carry out this subpart 
for a fiscal year, the Corporation may make grants to State Commissions, 
grantmaking entities, and qualified organizations to pay for the Federal 
share of the implementation, operation, expansion, or replication of 
community-based service programs.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--
        ``(1) State commissions and grantmaking entities.--A State 
    Commission or grantmaking entity may use a grant made under 
    subsection (a)--
            ``(A) to make a grant to a qualified organization to 
        implement, operate, expand, or replicate a community-based 
        service program that provides for meaningful human, educational, 
        environmental, or public safety service by participants, who 
        shall be school-age youth; or
            ``(B) to provide training and technical assistance to such 
        an organization.
        ``(2) Qualified organizations.--A qualified organization, other 
    than a grantmaking entity, may use a grant made under subsection (a) 
    to implement, operate, expand, or replicate a program described in 
    paragraph (1)(A).

``SEC. 117B. STATE APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--To be eligible to receive a grant under section 
117A(a), a State Commission shall prepare, submit to the Corporation, 
and obtain approval of, an application.
    ``(b) Submission.--Such application shall be submitted to the 
Corporation at such time and in such manner, and shall contain such 
information, as the Chief Executive Officer may reasonably require.
    ``(c) Contents.--Such an application shall include, at a minimum, a 
State plan that contains the information and assurances described in 
section 117C(d) with respect to each community-based service program 
proposed to be carried out through funding distributed by the State 
Commission under this subpart.

``SEC. 117C. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Application to Corporation To Make Grants for Community-Based 
Service Programs.--To be eligible to receive a grant from the 
Corporation under section 117A(a) to make grants under section 
117A(b)(1), a grantmaking entity shall prepare, submit to the 
Corporation, and obtain approval of, an application that proposes a 
community-based service program to be carried out through grants made to 
qualified organizations. Such application shall be submitted at such 
time and in such manner, and shall contain such information, as the 
Chief Executive Officer may reasonably require.
    ``(b) Direct Application to Corporation To Carry Out Community-Based 
Service Programs.--To be eligible to receive a grant from the 
Corporation under section 117A(a) to implement, operate, expand, or 
replicate a community service program, a qualified organization shall 
prepare, submit to the Corporation, and obtain approval of, an 
application that proposes a community-based service program to be 
carried out at multiple sites, or that proposes an innovative community-
based service program. Such application shall be submitted at such time 
and in such manner, and shall contain such information, as the Chief 
Executive Officer may reasonably require.
    ``(c) Application to State Commission or Grantmaking Entity To 
Receive Grants To Carry Out Community-Based Service Programs.--To be 
eligible to receive a grant from a State Commission or grantmaking 
entity under section 117A(b)(1), a qualified organization shall prepare, 
submit to the Commission or entity, and obtain approval of, an 
application. Such application shall be submitted at such time and in 
such manner, and shall contain such information, as the Commission or 
entity may reasonably require.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Corporation shall by regulation establish 
standards for the information and assurances required to be contained in 
an application submitted under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a 
community-based service program, including, at a minimum--
        ``(1) an assurance that the entity carrying out the program 
    proposed by the applicant will comply with the nonduplication and 
    nondisplacement provisions of section 177 and the grievance 
    procedure requirements of section 176(f);
        ``(2) an assurance that the entity carrying out the program 
    will, prior to placing a participant in the program, consult with 
    the appropriate local labor organization, if any, representing 
    employees in the area in which the program will be carried out that 
    are engaged in the same or similar work as the work proposed to be 
    carried out by the program, to prevent the displacement of such 
    employees; and
        ``(3) in the case of an application submitted by a grantmaking 
    entity, information demonstrating that the entity will make grants 
    for a program to--
            ``(A) carry out activities described in section 117A(b)(1) 
        in two or more States, under circumstances in which the 
        activities carried out under such program can be carried out 
        more efficiently through one program than through two or more 
        programs; and
            ``(B) carry out the same activities, such as training 
        activities or activities related to exchanging information on 
        service experiences, through each of the projects assisted 
        through the program.
    ``(e) Limitation on Same Project in Multiple Applications.--No 
applicant shall submit an application under section 117B or this 
section, and the Corporation shall reject an application that is 
submitted under section 117B or this section, if the application 
describes a project proposed to be conducted using assistance requested 
by the applicant and the project is already described in another 
application pending before the Corporation.

``SEC. 117D. CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS.

    ``(a) Application of Criteria.--The Corporation shall apply the 
criteria described in subsection (b) in determining whether to approve 
an application submitted under section 117B or under subsection (a) or 
(b) of section 117C and to provide assistance under section 117A to the 
applicant on the basis of the application.
    ``(b) Assistance Criteria.--In evaluating such an application with 
respect to a program under this subpart, the Corporation shall consider 
the criteria established for national service programs under section 
133(c).
    ``(c) Application to Subgrants.--A State Commission or grantmaking 
entity shall apply the criteria described in subsection (b) in 
determining whether to approve an application under section 117C(c) and 
to make a grant under section 117A(b)(1) to the applicant on the basis 
of the application.

``SEC. 117E. FEDERAL, STATE, AND LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS.

    ``(a) Federal Share.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Federal share attributable to this 
    subpart of the cost of carrying out a program for which a grant is 
    made under this subpart may not exceed the percentage specified in 
    subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (D) of section 116(a)(1), as 
    appropriate.
        ``(2) Calculation.--Each recipient of assistance under this 
    subpart shall comply with section 116(a)(2).
    ``(b) Waiver.--The Chief Executive Officer may waive the 
requirements of subsection (a), in whole or in part, as provided in 
section 116(b).

``SEC. 117F. LIMITATIONS ON USES OF FUNDS.

    ``(a) Administrative Costs.--Not more than 5 percent of the amount 
of assistance provided to a State Commission, grantmaking entity, or 
qualified organization that is the original recipient of a grant under 
section 117A(a) for a fiscal year may be used to pay for administrative 
costs incurred by--
        ``(1) the original recipient; or
        ``(2) the entity carrying out the community-based service 
    programs supported with the assistance.
    ``(b) Rules on Use.--The Chief Executive Officer may by rule 
prescribe the manner and extent to which--
        ``(1) such assistance may be used to cover administrative costs; 
    and
        ``(2) that portion of the assistance available to cover 
    administrative costs should be distributed between--
            ``(A) the original recipient; and
            ``(B) the entity carrying out the community-based service 
        programs supported with the assistance.

                       ``Subpart C--Clearinghouse

``SEC. 118. SERVICE-LEARNING CLEARINGHOUSE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Corporation shall provide financial 
assistance, from funds appropriated to carry out subtitle H, to 
organizations described in subsection (b) to establish a clearinghouse, 
which shall carry out activities, either directly or by arrangement with 
another such organization, with respect to information about service-
learning.
    ``(b) Public or Private Nonprofit Organizations.--Public or private 
nonprofit organizations that have extensive experience with service-
learning, including use of adult volunteers to foster service-learning, 
shall be eligible to receive assistance under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Function of Clearinghouse.--An organization that receives 
assistance under subsection (a) may--
        ``(1) assist entities carrying out State or local service-
    learning programs with needs assessments and planning;
        ``(2) conduct research and evaluations concerning service-
    learning;
        ``(3)(A) provide leadership development and training to State 
    and local service-learning program administrators, supervisors, 
    service sponsors, and participants; and
        ``(B) provide training to persons who can provide the leadership 
    development and training described in subparagraph (A);
        ``(4) facilitate communication among entities carrying out 
    service-learning programs and participants in such programs;
        ``(5) provide information, curriculum materials, and technical 
    assistance relating to planning and operation of service-learning 
    programs, to States and local entities eligible to receive financial 
    assistance under this title;
        ``(6) provide information regarding methods to make service-
    learning programs accessible to individuals with disabilities;
        ``(7)(A) gather and disseminate information on successful 
    service-learning programs, components of such successful programs, 
    innovative youth skills curricula related to service-learning, and 
    service-learning projects; and
        ``(B) coordinate the activities of the Clearinghouse with 
    appropriate entities to avoid duplication of effort;
        ``(8) make recommendations to State and local entities on 
    quality controls to improve the quality of service-learning 
    programs;
        ``(9) assist organizations in recruiting, screening, and placing 
    service-learning coordinators; and
        ``(10) carry out such other activities as the Chief Executive 
    Officer determines to be appropriate.''.
    (b) Higher Education Innovative Projects.--Subtitle B of title I of 
the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12531 et seq.) 
is amended by striking part II and inserting the following:

  ``PART II--HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE

``SEC. 119. HIGHER EDUCATION INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS FOR COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    ``(a) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this part to expand 
participation in community service by supporting innovative community 
service programs carried out through institutions of higher education, 
acting as civic institutions to meet the human, educational, 
environmental, or public safety needs of neighboring communities.
    ``(b) General Authority.--The Corporation, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Education, is authorized to make grants to, and enter into 
contracts with, institutions of higher education (including a 
combination of such institutions), and partnerships comprised of such 
institutions and of other public or private nonprofit organizations, to 
pay for the Federal share of the cost of--
        ``(1) enabling such an institution or partnership to create or 
    expand an organized community service program that--
            ``(A) engenders a sense of social responsibility and 
        commitment to the community in which the institution is located; 
        and
            ``(B) provides projects for participants, who shall be 
        students, faculty, administration, or staff of the institution, 
        or residents of the community;
        ``(2) supporting student-initiated and student-designed 
    community service projects through the program;
        ``(3) strengthening the leadership and instructional capacity of 
    teachers at the elementary, secondary, and postsecondary levels, 
    with respect to service-learning, by--
            ``(A) including service-learning as a key component of the 
        preservice teacher education of the institution; and
            ``(B) encouraging the faculty of the institution to use 
        service-learning methods throughout their curriculum;
        ``(4) facilitating the integration of community service carried 
    out under the program into academic curricula, including integration 
    of clinical programs into the curriculum for students in 
    professional schools, so that students can obtain credit for their 
    community service projects;
        ``(5) supplementing the funds available to carry out work-study 
    programs under part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
    1965 (42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.) to support service-learning and 
    community service through the community service program;
        ``(6) strengthening the service infrastructure within 
    institutions of higher education in the United States through the 
    program; and
        ``(7) providing for the training of teachers, prospective 
    teachers, related education personnel, and community leaders in the 
    skills necessary to develop, supervise, and organize service-
    learning.
    ``(c) Federal Share.--
        ``(1) Share.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Federal share of the cost of carrying 
        out a community service project for which a grant or contract is 
        awarded under this part may not exceed 50 percent.
            ``(B) Calculation.--Each recipient of assistance under this 
        part shall comply with section 116(a)(2).
        ``(2) Waiver.--The Chief Executive Officer may waive the 
    requirements of paragraph (1), in whole or in part, as provided in 
    section 116(b).
    ``(d) Application for Grant.--
        ``(1) Submission.--To receive a grant or enter into a contract 
    under this part, an institution or partnership described in 
    subsection (b) shall prepare, submit to the Corporation, and obtain 
    approval of, an application at such time, in such manner, and 
    containing such information and assurances as the Corporation may 
    reasonably require. In requesting applications for assistance under 
    this part, the Corporation shall specify such required information 
    and assurances.
        ``(2) Contents.--An application submitted under paragraph (1) 
    shall contain, at a minimum--
            ``(A) assurances that--
                ``(i) prior to the placement of a participant, the 
            applicant will consult with the appropriate local labor 
            organization, if any, representing employees in the area who 
            are engaged in the same or similar work as that proposed to 
            be carried out by such program, to prevent the displacement 
            and protect the rights of such employees; and
                ``(ii) the applicant will comply with the nonduplication 
            and nondisplacement provisions of section 177 and grievance 
            procedure requirements of section 176(f); and
            ``(B) such other assurances as the Chief Executive Officer 
        may reasonably require.
    ``(e) Priority.--
        ``(1) In general.--In making grants and entering into contracts 
    under subsection (b), the Corporation shall give priority to 
    applicants that submit applications containing proposals that--
            ``(A) demonstrate the commitment of the institution of 
        higher education, other than by demonstrating the commitment of 
        the students, to supporting the community service projects 
        carried out under the program;
            ``(B) specify the manner in which the institution will 
        promote faculty, administration, and staff participation in the 
        community service projects;
            ``(C) specify the manner in which the institution will 
        provide service to the community through organized programs, 
        including, where appropriate, clinical programs for students in 
        professional schools;
            ``(D) describe any partnership that will participate in the 
        community service projects, such as a partnership comprised of--
                ``(i) the institution;
                ``(ii)(I) a community-based agency;
                ``(II) a local government agency; or
                ``(III) a nonprofit entity that serves or involves 
            school-age youth or older adults; and
                ``(iii) a student organization;
            ``(E) demonstrate community involvement in the development 
        of the proposal;
            ``(F) specify that the institution will use such assistance 
        to strengthen the service infrastructure in institutions of 
        higher education; or
            ``(G) with respect to projects involving delivery of 
        service, specify projects that involve leadership development of 
        school-age youth.
        ``(2) Determination.--In giving priority to applicants under 
    paragraph (1), the Corporation shall give increased priority to such 
    an applicant for each characteristic described in subparagraphs (A) 
    through (G) of paragraph (1) that is reflected in the application 
    submitted by the applicant.
    ``(f) National Service Educational Award.--A participant in a 
program funded under this part shall be eligible for the national 
service educational award described in subtitle D, if the participant 
served in an approved national service position.
    ``(g) Definition.--Notwithstanding section 101(29), as used in this 
part, the term `student' means an individual who is enrolled in an 
institution of higher education on a full- or part-time basis.''.
    (c) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the items relating to subtitle B of title I of such Act and 
inserting the following:

``Subtitle B--School-Based and Community-Based Service-Learning Programs

                    ``Part I--Serve-America Programs


              ``SUBPART A--SCHOOL-BASED PROGRAMS FOR STUDENTS

``Sec. 111. Authority to assist States and Indian tribes.
``Sec. 111A. Authority to assist local applicants in nonparticipating 
          States.
``Sec. 111B. Authority to assist public or private nonprofit 
          organizations.
``Sec. 112. Grants and allotments.
``Sec. 113. State or tribal applications.
``Sec. 114. Local applications.
``Sec. 115. Consideration of applications.
``Sec. 115A. Participation of students and teachers from private 
          schools.
``Sec. 116. Federal, State, and local contributions.
``Sec. 116A. Limitations on uses of funds.
``Sec. 116B. Definitions.


    ``SUBPART B--COMMUNITY-BASED SERVICE PROGRAMS FOR SCHOOL-AGE YOUTH

``Sec. 117. Definitions.
``Sec. 117A. General authority.
``Sec. 117B. State applications.
``Sec. 117C. Local applications.
``Sec. 117D. Consideration of applications.
``Sec. 117E. Federal, State, and local contributions.
``Sec. 117F. Limitations on uses of funds.


                        ``SUBPART C--CLEARINGHOUSE

``Sec. 118. Service-learning clearinghouse.

  ``Part II--Higher Education Innovative Programs for Community Service

``Sec. 119. Higher education innovative programs for community 
          service.''.

SEC. 104. QUALITY AND INNOVATION ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Repeal.--Subtitle E of title I of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12591 et seq.) is repealed.
    (b) Transfer.--Title I of the National and Community Service Act of 
1990 is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subtitle H (42 U.S.C. 12653 et seq.) as 
    subtitle E;
        (2) by inserting subtitle E (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of 
    this subsection) after subtitle D; and
        (3) by redesignating sections 195 through 195O as sections 151 
    through 166, respectively.
    (c) Investment for Quality and Innovation.--Title I of the National 
and Community Service Act of 1990 (as amended by subsection (b) of this 
section) is amended by inserting after subtitle G the following new 
subtitle:
           ``Subtitle H--Investment for Quality and Innovation
``SEC. 198. ADDITIONAL CORPORATION ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT NATIONAL 
SERVICE.
    ``(a) Methods of Conducting Activities.--The Corporation may carry 
out this section directly (except as provided in subsection (r)) or 
through grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements with other 
entities.
    ``(b) Innovation and Quality Improvement.--The Corporation may 
undertake activities to improve the quality of national service 
programs, including service-learning programs, and to support innovative 
and model programs, including--
        ``(1) programs, including programs for rural youth, under 
    subtitle B or C;
        ``(2) employer-based retiree programs;
        ``(3) intergenerational programs;
        ``(4) programs involving individuals with disabilities as 
    participants providing service; and
        ``(5) programs sponsored by Governors.
    ``(c) Summer Programs.--The Corporation may support service programs 
intended to be carried out between May 1 and October 1, except that such 
a program may also include a year-round component.
    ``(d) Community-Based Agencies.--The Corporation may provide 
training and technical assistance and other assistance to service 
sponsors and other community-based agencies that provide volunteer 
placements in order to improve the ability of such agencies to use 
participants and other volunteers in a manner that results in high-
quality service and a positive service experience for the participants 
and volunteers.
    ``(e) Improve Ability To Apply for Assistance.--The Corporation 
shall provide training and technical assistance, where necessary, to 
individuals, programs, local labor organizations, State educational 
agencies, State Commissions, local educational agencies, local 
governments, community-based agencies, and other entities to enable them 
to apply for funding under one of the national service laws, to conduct 
high-quality programs, to evaluate such programs, and for other 
purposes.
    ``(f) National Service Fellowships.--The Corporation may award 
national service fellowships.
    ``(g) Conferences and Materials.--The Corporation may organize and 
hold conferences, and prepare and publish materials, to disseminate 
information and promote the sharing of information among programs for 
the purpose of improving the quality of programs and projects.
    ``(h) Peace Corps and VISTA Training.--The Corporation may provide 
training assistance to selected individuals who volunteer to serve in 
the Peace Corps or a program authorized under title I of the Domestic 
Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.). The training 
shall be provided as part of the course of study of the individual at an 
institution of higher education, shall involve service-learning, and 
shall cover appropriate skills that the individual will use in the Peace 
Corps or VISTA.
    ``(i) Promotion and Recruitment.--The Corporation may conduct a 
campaign to solicit funds for the National Service Trust and other 
programs and activities authorized under the national service laws and 
to promote and recruit participants for programs that receive assistance 
under the national service laws.
    ``(j) Training.--The Corporation may support national and regional 
participant and supervisor training, including leadership training and 
training in specific types of service and in building the ethic of civic 
responsibility.
    ``(k) Research.--The Corporation may support research on national 
service, including service-learning.
    ``(l) Intergenerational Support.--The Corporation may assist 
programs in developing a service component that combines students, out-
of-school youths, and older adults as participants to provide needed 
community services.
    ``(m) Planning Coordination.--The Corporation may coordinate 
community-wide planning among programs and projects.
    ``(n) Youth Leadership.--The Corporation may support activities to 
enhance the ability of youth and young adults to play leadership roles 
in national service.
    ``(o) National Program Identity.--The Corporation may support the 
development and dissemination of materials, including training 
materials, and arrange for uniforms and insignia, designed to promote 
unity and shared features among programs that receive assistance under 
the national service laws.
    ``(p) Service-Learning.--The Corporation shall support innovative 
programs and activities that promote service-learning.
    ``(q) National Youth Service Day.--
        ``(1) Designation.--April 19, 1994, and April 18, 1995 are each 
    designated as `National Youth Service Day'. The President is 
    authorized and directed to issue a proclamation calling on the 
    people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate 
    ceremonies and activities.
        ``(2) Federal activities.--In order to observe National Youth 
    Service Day at the Federal level, the Corporation may organize and 
    carry out appropriate ceremonies and activities.
        ``(3) Activities.--The Corporation may make grants to public or 
    private nonprofit organizations with demonstrated ability to carry 
    out appropriate activities, in order to support such activities on 
    National Youth Service Day.
    ``(r) Assistance for Head Start.--The Corporation may make grants 
to, and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with, public or 
nonprofit private agencies and organizations that receive grants or 
contracts under the Foster Grandparent Program (part B of title II of 
the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 5011 et seq.)), 
for projects of the type described in section 211(a) of such Act (29 
U.S.C. 5011) operating under memoranda of agreement with the ACTION 
Agency, for the purpose of increasing the number of low-income 
individuals who provide services under such program to children who 
participate in Head Start programs under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C 
9831 et seq).

``SEC. 198A. CLEARINGHOUSES.

    ``(a) Assistance.--The Corporation shall provide assistance to 
appropriate entities to establish one or more clearinghouses, including 
the clearinghouse described in section 118.
    ``(b) Application.--To be eligible to receive assistance under 
subsection (a), an entity shall submit an application to the Corporation 
at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Corporation may require.
    ``(c) Function of Clearinghouses.--An entity that receives 
assistance under subsection (a) may--
        ``(1) assist entities carrying out State or local community 
    service programs with needs assessments and planning;
        ``(2) conduct research and evaluations concerning community 
    service;
        ``(3)(A) provide leadership development and training to State 
    and local community service program administrators, supervisors, and 
    participants; and
        ``(B) provide training to persons who can provide the leadership 
    development and training described in subparagraph (A);
        ``(4) facilitate communication among entities carrying out 
    community service programs and participants;
        ``(5) provide information, curriculum materials, and technical 
    assistance relating to planning and operation of community service 
    programs, to States and local entities eligible to receive funds 
    under this title;
        ``(6)(A) gather and disseminate information on successful 
    community service programs, components of such successful programs, 
    innovative youth skills curriculum, and community service projects; 
    and
        ``(B) coordinate the activities of the clearinghouse with 
    appropriate entities to avoid duplication of effort;
        ``(7) make recommendations to State and local entities on 
    quality controls to improve the delivery of community service 
    programs and on changes in the programs under this title; and
        ``(8) carry out such other activities as the Chief Executive 
    Officer determines to be appropriate.

``SEC. 198B. PRESIDENTIAL AWARDS FOR SERVICE.

    ``(a) Presidential Awards.--
        ``(1) In general.--The President, acting through the 
    Corporation, may make Presidential awards for service to individuals 
    providing significant service, and to outstanding service programs.
        ``(2) Individuals and programs.--Notwithstanding section 
    101(19)--
            ``(A) an individual receiving an award under this subsection 
        need not be a participant in a program authorized under this 
        Act; and
            ``(B) a program receiving an award under this subsection 
        need not be a program authorized under this Act.
        ``(3) Nature of award.--In making an award under this section to 
    an individual or program, the President, acting through the 
    Corporation--
            ``(A) is authorized to incur necessary expenses for the 
        honorary recognition of the individual or program; and
            ``(B) is not authorized to make a cash award to such 
        individual or program.
    ``(b) Information.--The President, acting through the Corporation, 
shall ensure that information concerning individuals and programs 
receiving awards under this section is widely disseminated.
``SEC. 198C. MILITARY INSTALLATION CONVERSION DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
    ``(a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to--
        ``(1) provide meaningful service opportunities for economically 
    disadvantaged youth;
        ``(2) fully utilize military installations affected by closures 
    or realignments;
        ``(3) encourage communities affected by such closures or 
    realignments to convert the installations to community use; and
        ``(4) foster a sense of community pride in the youth in the 
    community.
    ``(b) Definitions.--As used in this section:
        ``(1) Affected military installation.--The term `affected 
    military installation' means a military installation described in 
    section 325(e)(1) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 
    1662d(e)(1)).
        ``(2) Community.--The term `community' includes a county.
        ``(3) Convert to community use.--The term `convert to community 
    use', used with respect to an affected military installation, 
    includes--
            ``(A) conversion of the installation or a part of the 
        installation to--
                ``(i) a park;
                ``(ii) a community center;
                ``(iii) a recreational facility; or
                ``(iv) a facility for a Head Start program under the 
            Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.); and
            ``(B) carrying out, at the installation, a construction or 
        economic development project that is of substantial benefit, as 
        determined by the Chief Executive Officer, to--
                ``(i) the community in which the installation is 
            located; or
                ``(ii) a community located within such distance of the 
            installation as the Chief Executive Officer may determine by 
            regulation to be appropriate.
        ``(4) Demonstration program.--The term `demonstration program' 
    means a program described in subsection (c).
    ``(c) Demonstration Programs.--
        ``(1) Grants.--The Corporation may make grants to communities 
    and community-based agencies to pay for the Federal share of 
    establishing and carrying out military installation conversion 
    demonstration programs, to assist in converting to community use 
    affected military installations located--
            ``(A) within the community; or
            ``(B) within such distance from the community as the Chief 
        Executive Officer may by regulation determine to be appropriate.
        ``(2) Duration.--In carrying out such a demonstration program, 
    the community or community-based agency may carry out--
            ``(A) a program of not less than 6 months in duration; or
            ``(B) a full-time summer program.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--
        ``(1) Stipend.--A community or community-based agency that 
    receives a grant under subsection (c) to establish and carry out a 
    project through a demonstration program may use the funds made 
    available through such grant to pay for a portion of a stipend for 
    the participants in the project.
        ``(2) Limitation on amount of stipend.--The amount of the 
    stipend provided to a participant under paragraph (1) that may be 
    paid using assistance provided under this section and using any 
    other Federal funds shall not exceed the lesser of--
            ``(A) 85 percent of the total average annual subsistence 
        allowance provided to VISTA volunteers under section 105 of the 
        Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4955); and
            ``(B) 85 percent of the stipend established by the 
        demonstration program involved.
    ``(e) Participants.--
        ``(1) Eligibility.--A person shall be eligible to be selected as 
    a participant in a project carried out through a demonstration 
    program if the person is--
            ``(A) an economically disadvantaged individual; and
            ``(B)(i) a person described in section 153(b);
            ``(ii) a youth described in section 154(a); or
            ``(iii) an eligible youth described in section 423 of the 
        Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1693).
        ``(2) Participation.--Persons desiring to participate in such a 
    project shall enter into an agreement with the service sponsor of 
    the project to participate--
            ``(A) on a full-time or a part-time basis; and
            ``(B) for the duration referred to in subsection (f)(2)(C).
    ``(f) Application.--
        ``(1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
    subsection (c), a community or community-based agency shall submit 
    an application to the Chief Executive Officer at such time, in such 
    manner, and containing such information as the Chief Executive 
    Officer may require.
        ``(2) Contents.--At a minimum, such application shall contain--
            ``(A) a description of the demonstration program proposed to 
        be conducted by the applicant;
            ``(B) a proposal for carrying out the program that describes 
        the manner in which the applicant will--
                ``(i) provide preservice and inservice training, for 
            supervisors and participants, that will be conducted by 
            qualified individuals or qualified organizations;
                ``(ii) conduct an appropriate evaluation of the program; 
            and
                ``(iii) provide for appropriate community involvement in 
            the program;
            ``(C) information indicating the duration of the program; 
        and
            ``(D) an assurance that the applicant will comply with the 
        nonduplication and nondisplacement provisions of section 177 and 
        the grievance procedure requirements of section 176(f).
    ``(g) Limitation on Grant.--In making a grant under subsection (c) 
with respect to a demonstration program to assist in converting an 
affected military installation, the Corporation shall not make a grant 
for more than 25 percent of the total cost of the conversion.

``SEC. 198D. SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

    ``(a) Special Demonstration Project for the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta of 
Alaska.--The President may award grants to, and enter into contracts 
with, organizations to carry out programs that address significant human 
needs in the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta region of Alaska.
    ``(b) Application.--
        ``(1) General requirements.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
    or enter into a contract under subsection (a) with respect to a 
    program, an organization shall submit an application to the 
    President at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
    information as the President may require.
        ``(2) Contents.--The application submitted by the organization 
    shall, at a minimum--
            ``(A) include information describing the manner in which the 
        program will utilize VISTA volunteers, individuals who have 
        served in the Peace Corps, and other qualified persons, in 
        partnership with the local nonprofit organizations known as the 
        Yukon-Kuskokwim Health Corporation and the Alaska Village 
        Council Presidents;
            ``(B) take into consideration--
                ``(i) the primarily noncash economy of the region; and
                ``(ii) the needs and desires of residents of the local 
            communities in the region; and
            ``(C) include specific strategies, developed in cooperation 
        with the Yupi'k speaking population that resides in such 
        communities, for comprehensive and intensive community 
        development for communities in the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta 
        region.''.
    (d) Table of Contents.--
        (1) Civilian community corps.--Section 1(b) of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) 
    is amended by striking the items relating to subtitle E of title I 
    of such Act and inserting the following:

                 ``Subtitle E--Civilian Community Corps

``Sec. 151. Purpose.
``Sec. 152. Establishment of Civilian Community Corps Demonstration 
          Program.
``Sec. 153. National service program.
``Sec. 154. Summer national service program.
``Sec. 155. Civilian Community Corps.
``Sec. 156. Training.
``Sec. 157. Service projects.
``Sec. 158. Authorized benefits for Corps members.
``Sec. 159. Administrative provisions.
``Sec. 160. Status of Corps members and Corps personnel under Federal 
          law.
``Sec. 161. Contract and grant authority.
``Sec. 162. Responsibilities of other departments.
``Sec. 163. Advisory board.
``Sec. 164. Annual evaluation.
``Sec. 165. Funding limitation.
``Sec. 166. Definitions.''.

        (2) Quality and innovation.--Section 1(b) of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) 
    is amended by striking the items relating to subtitle H of title I 
    of such Act and inserting the following:

           ``Subtitle H--Investment for Quality and Innovation

``Sec. 198. Additional corporation activities to support national 
          service.
``Sec. 198A. Clearinghouses.
``Sec. 198B. Presidential awards for service.
``Sec. 198C. Military installation conversion demonstration programs.
``Sec. 198D. Special demonstration project.''.

    (e) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) National defense authorization act for fiscal year 1993.--
            (A) Section 1091(f)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484) is amended by 
        striking ``195G'' and inserting ``158''.
            (B) Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1092(b), and sections 
        1092(c), 1093(a), and 1094(a) of such Act are amended by 
        striking ``195A'' and inserting ``152''.
            (C) Sections 1091(f)(2), 1092(b)(1), and 1094(a), and 
        subsections (a) and (c) of section 1095 of such Act are amended 
        by striking ``subtitle H'' and inserting ``subtitle E''.
            (D) Section 1094(b)(1) and subsections (b) and (c)(1) of 
        section 1095 of such Act are amended by striking ``subtitles B, 
        C, D, E, F, and G'' and inserting ``subtitles B, C, D, F, G, and 
        H''.
        (2) National and community service act of 1990.--
            (A) Section 153(a) of the National and Community Service Act 
        of 1990 (as redesignated in subsection (b)(3) of this section) 
        (42 U.S.C. 12653b(a)) is amended by striking ``195A(a)'' and 
        inserting ``152(a)''.
            (B) Section 154(a) of such Act (as redesignated in 
        subsection (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653c(a)) is 
        amended by striking ``195A(a)'' and inserting ``152(a)''.
            (C) Section 155 of such Act (as redesignated in subsection 
        (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653d) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``195H(c)(1)'' and 
            inserting ``159(c)(1)'';
                (ii) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``195H(c)(2)'' 
            and inserting ``159(c)(2)''; and
                (iii) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``195K(a)(3)'' 
            and inserting ``162(a)(3)''.
            (D) Section 156 of such Act (as redesignated in subsection 
        (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653e) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``195H(c)(2)'' and 
            inserting ``159(c)(2)''; and
                (ii) in subsection (d), by striking ``195K(a)(3)'' and 
            inserting ``162(a)(3)''.
            (E) Section 159 of such Act (as redesignated in subsection 
        (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653h) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (a)--

                    (I) by striking ``195A'' and inserting ``152''; and
                    (II) in paragraph (2), by striking ``195'' and 
                inserting ``151''; and

                (ii) in subsection (c)(2)(C)(i), by striking 
            ``195K(a)(2)'' and inserting ``section 162(a)(2)''.
            (F) Section 161(b)(1)(B) of such Act (as redesignated in 
        subsection (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653j(b)(1)(B)) 
        is amended by striking ``195K(a)(3)'' and inserting 
        ``162(a)(3)''.
            (G) Section 162(a)(2)(A) of such Act (as redesignated in 
        subsection (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653k(a)(2)(A)) 
        is amended by striking ``195(3)'' and inserting ``151(3)''.
            (H) Section 166 of such Act (as redesignated in subsection 
        (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653o) is amended--
                (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``195D'' and inserting 
            ``155'';
                (ii) in paragraph (8), by striking ``195A'' and 
            inserting ``152'';
                (iii) in paragraph (10), by striking ``195D(d)'' and 
            inserting ``155(d)''; and
                (iv) in paragraph (11), by striking ``195D(c)'' and 
            inserting ``155(c)''.
    (f) Extension of Authority To Conduct Civilian Community Corps.--
Section 1092(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 2534), as amended by subsection 
(e)(1) of this section, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``The amount made available for the Civilian 
Community Corps Demonstration Program pursuant to this subsection shall 
remain available for expenditure during fiscal years 1993 and 1994.''.
    (g) Additional Amendment Regarding Civilian Community Corps.--
Section 158 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (as 
redesignated in subsection (b)(3) of this section) (42 U.S.C. 12653g) is 
amended by striking subsections (f), (g), and (h) and inserting the 
following new subsections:
    ``(f) National Service Educational Awards.--A Corps member who 
successfully completes a period of agreed service in the Corps may 
receive the national service educational award described in subtitle D 
if the Corps member--
        ``(1) serves in an approved national service position; and
        ``(2) satisfies the eligibility requirements specified in 
    section 146 with respect to service in that approved national 
    service position.
    ``(g) Alternative Benefit.--If a Corps member who successfully 
completes a period of agreed service in the Corps is ineligible for the 
national service educational award described in subtitle D, the Director 
may provide for the provision of a suitable alternative benefit for the 
Corps member.''.

SEC. 105. PUBLIC LANDS CORPS.

    Public Law 91-378 (16 U.S.C. 1701-1706; commonly known as the Youth 
Conservation Corps Act of 1970) is amended--
        (1) by inserting before section 1 the following:
                 ``TITLE I--YOUTH CONSERVATION CORPS'';
        (2) by striking ``Act'' each place it appears and inserting 
    ``title'';
        (3) by redesignating sections 1 through 6 as sections 101 
    through 106, respectively;
        (4) in section 102 (as so redesignated), by inserting ``in this 
    title'' after ``hereinafter'' in subsection (a);
        (5) in section 104 (as so redesignated), by striking ``section 
    6'' in subsection (d) and inserting ``section 106''; and
        (6) by adding at the end the following new title:
                     ``TITLE II--PUBLIC LANDS CORPS

``SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    ``This title may be cited as the `Public Lands Corps Act of 1993'.

``SEC. 202. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    ``(a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
        ``(1) Conserving or developing natural and cultural resources 
    and enhancing and maintaining environmentally important lands and 
    waters through the use of the Nation's young men and women in a 
    Public Lands Corps can benefit those men and women by providing them 
    with education and work opportunities, furthering their 
    understanding and appreciation of the natural and cultural 
    resources, and providing a means to pay for higher education or to 
    repay indebtedness they have incurred to obtain higher education 
    while at the same time benefiting the Nation's economy and its 
    environment.
        ``(2) Many facilities and natural resources located on eligible 
    service lands are in disrepair or degraded and in need of labor 
    intensive rehabilitation, restoration, and enhancement work which 
    cannot be carried out by Federal agencies at existing personnel 
    levels.
        ``(3) Youth conservation corps have established a good record of 
    restoring and maintaining these kinds of facilities and resources in 
    a cost effective and efficient manner, especially when they have 
    worked in partnership arrangements with government land management 
    agencies.
    ``(b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to--
        ``(1) perform, in a cost-effective manner, appropriate 
    conservation projects on eligible service lands where such projects 
    will not be performed by existing employees;
        ``(2) assist governments and Indian tribes in performing 
    research and public education tasks associated with natural and 
    cultural resources on eligible service lands;
        ``(3) expose young men and women to public service while 
    furthering their understanding and appreciation of the Nation's 
    natural and cultural resources;
        ``(4) expand educational opportunities by rewarding individuals 
    who participate in national service with an increased ability to 
    pursue higher education or job training; and
        ``(5) stimulate interest among the Nation's young men and women 
    in conservation careers by exposing them to conservation 
    professionals in land managing agencies.

``SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.

    ``For purposes of this title:
        ``(1) Appropriate conservation project.--The term `appropriate 
    conservation project' means any project for the conservation, 
    restoration, construction or rehabilitation of natural, cultural, 
    historic, archaeological, recreational, or scenic resources.
        ``(2) Corps and public lands corps.--The terms `Corps' and 
    `Public Lands Corps' mean the Public Lands Corps established under 
    section 204.
        ``(3) Eligible service lands.--The term `eligible service lands' 
    means public lands, Indian lands, and Hawaiian home lands.
        ``(4) Hawaiian home lands.--The term `Hawaiian home lands' means 
    all lands given the status of Hawaiian home lands under section 204 
    of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 110), or under 
    the corresponding provision of the Constitution of the State of 
    Hawaii adopted under section 4 of the Act entitled `An Act to 
    provide for the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union', 
    approved March 18, 1959 (Public Law 86-3; 73 Stat. 5).
        ``(5) Indian.--The term `Indian' means a person who--
            ``(A) is a member of an Indian tribe; or
            ``(B) is a `Native', as defined in section 3(b) of the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)).
        ``(6) Indian lands.--The term `Indian lands' means--
            ``(A) any Indian reservation;
            ``(B) any public domain Indian allotments;
            ``(C) any former Indian reservation in the State of 
        Oklahoma;
            ``(D) any land held by incorporated Native groups, regional 
        corporations, and village corporations under the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            ``(E) any land held by dependent Indian communities within 
        the borders of the United States whether within the original or 
        subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or 
        without the limits of a State.
        ``(7) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian tribe' means an Indian 
    tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, 
    including any Native village, Regional Corporation, or Village 
    Corporation, as defined in subsection (c), (g), or (j), 
    respectively, of section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
    Act (43 U.S.C. 1602 (c), (g), or (j)), that is recognized as 
    eligible for the special programs and services provided by the 
    United States under Federal law to Indians because of their status 
    as Indians.
        ``(8) Public lands.--The term `public lands' means any lands or 
    waters (or interest therein) owned or administered by the United 
    States, except that such term does not include any Indian lands.
        ``(9) Qualified youth or conservation corps.--The term 
    `qualified youth or conservation corps' means any program 
    established by a State or local government, by the governing body of 
    any Indian tribe, or by a nonprofit organization that--
            ``(A) is capable of offering meaningful, full-time, 
        productive work for individuals between the ages of 16 and 25, 
        inclusive, in a natural or cultural resource setting;
            ``(B) gives participants a mix of work experience, basic and 
        life skills, education, training, and support services; and
            ``(C) provides participants with the opportunity to develop 
        citizenship values and skills through service to their community 
        and the United States.
        ``(10) Resource assistant.--The term `resource assistant' means 
    a resource assistant selected under section 206.
        ``(11) State.--The term `State' means any State of the United 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and 
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

``SEC. 204. PUBLIC LANDS CORPS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment of Public Lands Corps.--There is hereby 
established in the Department of the Interior and the Department of 
Agriculture a Public Lands Corps.
    ``(b) Participants.--The Corps shall consist of individuals between 
the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, who are enrolled as participants in 
the Corps by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of 
Agriculture. To be eligible for enrollment in the Corps, an individual 
shall satisfy the criteria specified in section 137(b) of the National 
and Community Service Act of 1990. The Secretaries may enroll such 
individuals in the Corps without regard to the civil service and 
classification laws, rules, or regulations of the United States. The 
Secretaries may establish a preference for the enrollment in the Corps 
of individuals who are economically, physically, or educationally 
disadvantaged.
    ``(c) Qualified Youth or Conservation Corps.--The Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are authorized to enter into 
contracts and cooperative agreements with any qualified youth or 
conservation corps to perform appropriate conservation projects referred 
to in subsection (d).
    ``(d) Projects To Be Carried Out.--The Secretary of the Interior and 
the Secretary of Agriculture may each utilize the Corps or any qualified 
youth or conservation corps to carry out appropriate conservation 
projects which such Secretary is authorized to carry out under other 
authority of law on public lands. Appropriate conservation projects may 
also be carried out under this title on Indian lands with the approval 
of the Indian tribe involved and on Hawaiian home lands with the 
approval of the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands of the State of 
Hawaii. The Secretaries may also authorize appropriate conservation 
projects and other appropriate projects to be carried out on Federal, 
State, local, or private lands as part of disaster prevention or relief 
efforts in response to an emergency or major disaster declared by the 
President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
    ``(e) Preference for Certain Projects.--In selecting appropriate 
conservation projects to be carried out under this title, the Secretary 
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall give preference 
to those projects which--
        ``(1) will provide long-term benefits to the public;
        ``(2) will instill in the enrollee involved a work ethic and a 
    sense of public service;
        ``(3) will be labor intensive;
        ``(4) can be planned and initiated promptly; and
        ``(5) will provide academic, experiential, or environmental 
    education opportunities.
    ``(f) Consistency.--Each appropriate conservation project carried 
out under this title on eligible service lands shall be consistent with 
the provisions of law and policies relating to the management and 
administration of such lands, with all other applicable provisions of 
law, and with all management, operational, and other plans and documents 
which govern the administration of the area.

``SEC. 205. CONSERVATION CENTERS.

    ``(a) Establishment and Use.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture are each authorized to provide such quarters, 
board, medical care, transportation, and other services, facilities, 
supplies, and equipment as such Secretary deems necessary in connection 
with the Public Lands Corps and appropriate conservation projects 
carried out under this title and to establish and use conservation 
centers owned and operated by such Secretary for purposes of the Corps 
and such projects. The Secretaries shall establish basic standards of 
health, nutrition, sanitation, and safety for all conservation centers 
established under this section and shall assure that such standards are 
enforced. Where necessary or appropriate, the Secretaries may enter into 
contracts and other appropriate arrangements with State and local 
government agencies and private organizations for the management of such 
conservation centers.
    ``(b) Logistical Support.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture may make arrangements with the Secretary of 
Defense to have logistical support provided by the Armed Forces to the 
Corps and any conservation center established under this section, where 
feasible. Logistical support may include the provision of temporary tent 
shelters where needed, transportation, and residential supervision.
    ``(c) Use of Military Installations.--The Secretary of the Interior 
and the Secretary of Agriculture may make arrangements with the 
Secretary of Defense to identify military installations and other 
facilities of the Department of Defense and, in consultation with the 
adjutant generals of the State National Guards, National Guard 
facilities that may be used, in whole or in part, by the Corps for 
training or housing Corps participants.

``SEC. 206. RESOURCE ASSISTANTS.

    ``(a) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture are each authorized to provide individual 
placements of resource assistants with any Federal land managing agency 
under the jurisdiction of such Secretary to carry out research or 
resource protection activities on behalf of the agency. To be eligible 
for selection as a resource assistant, an individual must be at least 17 
years of age. The Secretaries may select resource assistants without 
regard to the civil service and classification laws, rules, or 
regulations of the United States. The Secretaries shall give a 
preference to the selection of individuals who are enrolled in an 
institution of higher education or are recent graduates from an 
institution of higher education, with particular attention given to 
ensure full representation of women and participants from historically 
black, Hispanic, and Native American schools.
    ``(b) Use of Existing Nonprofit Organizations.--Whenever one or more 
existing nonprofit organizations can provide, in the judgment of the 
Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, appropriate 
recruitment and placement services to fulfill the requirements of this 
section, the Secretary may implement this section through such existing 
organizations. Participating nonprofit organizations shall contribute to 
the expenses of providing and supporting the resource assistants, 
through private sources of funding, at a level equal to 25 percent of 
the total costs of each participant in the Resource Assistant program 
who has been recruited and placed through that organization. Any such 
participating nonprofit conservation service organization shall be 
required, by the respective land managing agency, to submit an annual 
report evaluating the scope, size, and quality of the program, including 
the value of work contributed by the Resource Assistants, to the mission 
of the agency.

``SEC. 207. LIVING ALLOWANCES AND TERMS OF SERVICE.

    ``(a) Living Allowances.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall provide each participant in the Public 
Lands Corps and each resource assistant with a living allowance in an 
amount not to exceed the maximum living allowance authorized by section 
140(a)(3) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 for 
participants in a national service program assisted under subtitle C of 
title I of such Act.
    ``(b) Terms of Service.--Each participant in the Corps and each 
resource assistant shall agree to participate in the Corps or serve as a 
resource assistant, as the case may be, for such term of service as may 
be established by the Secretary enrolling or selecting the individual.

``SEC. 208. NATIONAL SERVICE EDUCATIONAL AWARDS.

    ``(a) Educational Benefits and Awards.--If a participant in the 
Public Lands Corps or a resource assistant also serves in an approved 
national service position designated under subtitle C of title I of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990, the participant or resource 
assistant shall be eligible for a national service educational award in 
the manner prescribed in subtitle D of such title upon successfully 
complying with the requirements for the award. The period during which 
the national service educational award may be used, the purposes for 
which the award may be used, and the amount of the award shall be 
determined as provided under such subtitle.
    ``(b) Forbearance in the Collection of Stafford Loans.--For purposes 
of section 428 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, in the case of 
borrowers who are either participants in the Corps or resource 
assistants, upon written request, a lender shall grant a borrower 
forbearance on such terms as are otherwise consistent with the 
regulations of the Secretary of Education, during periods in which the 
borrower is serving as such a participant or a resource assistant.

``SEC. 209. NONDISPLACEMENT.

    ``The nondisplacement requirements of section 177 of the National 
and Community Service Act of 1990 shall be applicable to all activities 
carried out by the Public Lands Corps, to all activities carried out 
under this title by a qualified youth or conservation corps, and to the 
selection and service of resource assistants.

``SEC. 210. FUNDING.

    ``(a) Cost Sharing.--
        ``(1) Projects by qualified youth or conservation corps.--The 
    Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are each 
    authorized to pay not more than 75 percent of the costs of any 
    appropriate conservation project carried out pursuant to this title 
    on public lands by a qualified youth or conservation corps. The 
    remaining 25 percent of the costs of such a project may be provided 
    from nonfederal sources in the form of funds, services, facilities, 
    materials, equipment, or any combination of the foregoing. No cost 
    sharing shall be required in the case of any appropriate 
    conservation project carried out on Indian lands or Hawaiian home 
    lands under this title.
        ``(2) Public lands corps projects.--The Secretary of the 
    Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture are each authorized to 
    accept donations of funds, services, facilities, materials, or 
    equipment for the purposes of operating the Public Lands Corps and 
    carrying out appropriate conservation projects by the Corps. 
    However, nothing in this title shall be construed to require any 
    cost sharing for any project carried out directly by the Corps.
    ``(b) Funds Available Under National and Community Service Act.--In 
order to carry out the Public Lands Corps or to support resource 
assistants and qualified youth or conservation corps under this title, 
the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture shall be 
eligible to apply for and receive assistance under section 121(b) of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990.''.

SEC. 106. URBAN YOUTH CORPS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
        (1) The rehabilitation, reclamation, and beautification of urban 
    public housing, recreational sites, youth and senior centers, and 
    public roads and public works facilities through the efforts of 
    young people in the United States in an Urban Youth Corps can 
    benefit these youths, while also benefiting their communities, by--
            (A) providing them with education and work opportunities;
            (B) furthering their understanding and appreciation of the 
        challenges faced by individuals residing in urban communities; 
        and
            (C) providing them with a means to pay for higher education 
        or to repay indebtedness they have incurred to obtain higher 
        education.
        (2) A significant number of housing units for low-income 
    individuals in urban areas has become substandard and unsafe and the 
    deterioration of urban roadways, mass transit systems, and 
    transportation facilities in the United States have contributed to 
    the blight encountered in many cities in the United States.
        (3) As a result, urban housing, public works, and transportation 
    resources are in need of labor intensive rehabilitation, 
    reclamation, and beautification work that has been neglected in the 
    past and cannot be adequately carried out by Federal, State, and 
    local government at existing personnel levels.
        (4) Urban youth corps have established a good record of 
    rehabilitating, reclaiming, and beautifying these kinds of resources 
    in a cost-efficient manner, especially when they have worked in 
    partnership with government housing, public works, and 
    transportation authorities and agencies.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section--
        (1) to perform, in a cost-effective manner, appropriate service 
    projects to rehabilitate, reclaim, beautify, and improve public 
    housing and public works and transportation facilities and resources 
    in urban areas suffering from high rates of poverty where work will 
    not be performed by existing employees;
        (2) to assist government housing, public works, and 
    transportation authorities and agencies;
        (3) to expose young people in the United States to public 
    service while furthering their understanding and appreciation of 
    their community;
        (4) to expand educational opportunity for individuals who 
    participate in the Urban Youth Corps established by this section by 
    providing them with an increased ability to pursue postsecondary 
    education or job training; and
        (5) to stimulate interest among young people in the United 
    States in lifelong service to their communities and the United 
    States.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
        (1) Appropriate service project.--The term ``appropriate service 
    project'' means any project for the rehabilitation, reclamation, or 
    beautification of urban public housing and public works and 
    transportation resources or facilities.
        (2) Corps and urban youth corps.--The term ``Corps'' and ``Urban 
    Youth Corps'' mean the Urban Youth Corps established under 
    subsection (d)(1).
        (3) Qualified urban youth corps.--The term ``qualified urban 
    youth corps'' means any program established by a State or local 
    government or by a nonprofit organization that--
            (A) is capable of offering meaningful, full-time, productive 
        work for individuals between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, 
        in an urban or public works or transportation setting;
            (B) gives participants a mix of work experience, basic and 
        life skills, education, training, and support services; and
            (C) provides participants with the opportunity to develop 
        citizenship values and skills through service to their 
        communities and the United States.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of Transportation.
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means any State of the United 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, American Samoa, and 
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (d) Establishment of Urban Youth Corps.--
        (1) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the 
    Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Department of 
    Transportation an Urban Youth Corps. The Corps shall consist of 
    individuals between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, who are 
    enrolled as participants in the Corps by the Secretary of Housing 
    and Urban Development and the Secretary of Transportation. To be 
    eligible for enrollment in the Corps, an individual shall satisfy 
    the criteria specified in section 139(b) of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990. The Secretaries may enroll such 
    individuals in the Corps without regard to the civil service and 
    classification laws, rules, or regulations of the United States. The 
    Secretaries may establish a preference for the enrollment in the 
    Corps of individuals who are economically, physically, or 
    educationally disadvantaged.
        (2) Use of qualified urban youth corps.--The Secretaries are 
    authorized to enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with 
    any qualified urban youth corps to perform appropriate service 
    projects described in paragraph (3). As part of the Urban Youth 
    Corps established in the Department of Transportation, the Secretary 
    of Transportation may make grants to States (and through States to 
    local governments) for the purpose of establishing, operating, or 
    supporting qualified urban youth corps that will perform appropriate 
    service projects relating to transportation resources or facilities.
        (3) Service projects.--The Secretaries may each utilize the 
    Corps or any qualified urban youth corps to carry out appropriate 
    service projects that the Secretary involved is authorized to carry 
    out under other authority of law involving public housing projects 
    or public works resources or facilities.
        (4) Preference for certain projects.--In selecting an 
    appropriate service project to be carried out under this section, 
    the Secretaries shall give a preference to those projects which--
            (A) will provide long-term benefits to the public;
            (B) will instill in the participant a work ethic and a sense 
        of public service;
            (C) will be labor intensive;
            (D) can be planned and initiated promptly; and
            (E) will provide academic, experiential, or community 
        education opportunities.
        (5) Consistency.--Each appropriate service project carried out 
    under this section in any public housing project or public works 
    resource or facility shall be consistent with the provisions of law 
    and policies relating to the management and administration of such 
    projects, facilities, or resources, with all other applicable 
    provisions of law, and with all management, operational, and other 
    plans and documents which govern the administration of such 
    projects, facilities, or resources.
    (e) Living Allowances.--The Secretaries shall provide each 
participant in the Urban Youth Corps with a living allowance in an 
amount not to exceed the maximum living allowance authorized by section 
140(a)(3) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 for 
participants in a national service program assisted under subtitle C of 
title I of such Act.
    (f) Terms of Service.--Each participant in the Urban Youth Corps 
shall agree to participate in the Corps for a term of service 
established by the Secretary involved, consistent with the terms of 
service required under section 139(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 for participants in a national service program 
assisted under subtitle C of title I of such Act.
    (g) Educational Awards.--
        (1) Eligibility.--Each participant in the Urban Youth Corps 
    shall be eligible for a national service educational award in the 
    manner prescribed in subtitle D of title I of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 if such participant complies with such 
    requirements as may be established under this subtitle by the 
    Secretary involved respecting eligibility for the award. The period 
    during which the award may be used, the purposes for which the award 
    may be used, and the amount of the award shall be determined as 
    provided under such subtitle.
        (2) Forbearance in the collection of stafford loans.--For 
    purposes of section 428 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, in the 
    case of borrowers who are participants in the Urban Youth Corps, 
    upon written request, a lender shall grant a borrower forbearance on 
    such terms as are otherwise consistent with the regulations of the 
    Secretary of Education, during periods in which the borrower is 
    serving as such a participant and eligible for a national service 
    educational award under paragraph (1).
    (h) Nondisplacement.--The nondisplacement requirements of section 
177 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 shall be 
applicable to all activities carried out by the Urban Youth Corps and to 
all activities carried out under this section by a qualified urban youth 
corps.
    (i) Cost Sharing.--
        (1) Projects by qualified urban youth corps.--The Secretaries 
    are each authorized to pay not more than 75 percent of the costs of 
    any appropriate service project carried out pursuant to this section 
    by a qualified urban youth corps. The remaining 25 percent of the 
    costs of such a project may be provided from nonfederal sources in 
    the form of funds, services, facilities, materials, equipment, or 
    any combination of the foregoing.
        (2) Donations.--The Secretaries are each authorized to accept 
    donations of funds, services, facilities, materials, or equipment 
    for the purposes of operating the Urban Youth Corps and carrying out 
    appropriate service projects by the Corps. However, nothing in this 
    section shall be construed to require any cost sharing for any 
    project carried out directly by the Corps.
        (3) Funds available under national and community service act.--
    In order to carry out the Urban Youth Corps or to support qualified 
    urban youth corps under this section, the Secretaries shall be 
    eligible to apply for and receive assistance under section 121(b) of 
    the National and Community Service Act of 1990.
                     Subtitle B--Related Provisions

SEC. 111. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 101 of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12511) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.

    ``For purposes of this title:
        ``(1) Adult volunteer.--The term `adult volunteer' means an 
    individual, such as an older adult, an individual with a disability, 
    a parent, or an employee of a business or public or private 
    nonprofit organization, who--
            ``(A) works without financial remuneration in an educational 
        institution to assist students or out-of-school youth; and
            ``(B) is beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in 
        the State in which the educational institution is located.
        ``(2) Approved national service position.--The term `approved 
    national service position' means a national service position for 
    which the Corporation has approved the provision of a national 
    service educational award described in section 147 as one of the 
    benefits to be provided for successful service in the position.
        ``(3) Carry out.--The term `carry out', when used in connection 
    with a national service program described in section 122, means the 
    planning, establishment, operation, expansion, or replication of the 
    program.
        ``(4) Chief executive officer.--The term `Chief Executive 
    Officer', except when used to refer to the chief executive officer 
    of a State, means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation 
    appointed under section 193.
        ``(5) Community-based agency.--The term `community-based agency' 
    means a private nonprofit organization (including a church or other 
    religious entity) that--
            ``(A) is representative of a community or a significant 
        segment of a community; and
            ``(B) is engaged in meeting human, educational, 
        environmental, or public safety community needs.
        ``(6) Corporation.--The term `Corporation' means the Corporation 
    for National and Community Service established under section 191.
        ``(7) Economically disadvantaged.--The term `economically 
    disadvantaged' means, with respect to an individual, an individual 
    who is determined by the Chief Executive Officer to be low-income 
    according to the latest available data from the Department of 
    Commerce.
        ``(8) Elementary school.--The term `elementary school' has the 
    same meaning given such term in section 1471(8) of the Elementary 
    and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(8)).
        ``(9) Indian.--The term `Indian' means a person who is a member 
    of an Indian tribe, or is a `Native', as defined in section 3(b) of 
    the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)).
        ``(10) Indian lands.--The term `Indian lands' means any real 
    property owned by an Indian tribe, any real property held in trust 
    by the United States for an Indian or Indian tribe, and any real 
    property held by an Indian or Indian tribe that is subject to 
    restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States.
        ``(11) Indian tribe.--The term `Indian tribe' means--
            ``(A) an Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized 
        group or community, including--
                ``(i) any Native village, as defined in section 3(c) of 
            the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c)), 
            whether organized traditionally or pursuant to the Act of 
            June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the `Indian Reorganization 
            Act'; 48 Stat. 984, chapter 576; 25 U.S.C 461 et seq.); and
                ``(ii) any Regional Corporation or Village Corporation, 
            as defined in subsection (g) or (j), respectively, of 
            section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
            U.S.C. 1602 (g) or (j)),
        that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and 
        services provided by the United States under Federal law to 
        Indians because of their status as Indians; and
            ``(B) any tribal organization controlled, sanctioned, or 
        chartered by an entity described in subparagraph (A).
        ``(12) Individual with a disability.--Except as provided in 
    section 175(a), the term `individual with a disability' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 7(8)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act 
    of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 706(8)(B)).
        ``(13) Institution of higher education.--The term `institution 
    of higher education' has the same meaning given such term in section 
    1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)).
        ``(14) Local educational agency.--The term `local educational 
    agency' has the same meaning given such term in section 1471(12) of 
    the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
    2891(12)).
        ``(15) National service laws.--The term `national service laws' 
    means this Act and the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 
    U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
        ``(16) Out-of-school youth.--The term `out-of-school youth' 
    means an individual who--
            ``(A) has not attained the age of 27;
            ``(B) has not completed college or the equivalent thereof; 
        and
            ``(C) is not enrolled in an elementary or secondary school 
        or institution of higher education.
        ``(17) Participant.--
            ``(A) In general.--The term `participant' means--
                ``(i) for purposes of subtitle C, an individual in an 
            approved national service position; and
                ``(ii) for purposes of any other provision of this Act, 
            an individual enrolled in a program that receives assistance 
            under this title.
            ``(B) Rule.--A participant shall not be considered to be an 
        employee of the program in which the participant is enrolled.
        ``(18) Partnership program.--The term `partnership program' 
    means a program through which an adult volunteer, a public or 
    private nonprofit organization, an institution of higher education, 
    or a business assists a local educational agency.
        ``(19) Program.--The term `program', unless the context 
    otherwise requires, and except when used as part of the term 
    `academic program', means a program described in section 111(a) 
    (other than a program referred to in paragraph (3)(B) of such 
    section), 117A(a), 119(b)(1), or 122(a), or in paragraph (1) or (2) 
    of section 152(b), or an activity that could be funded under section 
    198, 198C, or 198D.
        ``(20) Project.--The term `project' means an activity, carried 
    out through a program that receives assistance under this title, 
    that results in a specific identifiable service or improvement that 
    otherwise would not be done with existing funds, and that does not 
    duplicate the routine services or functions of the employer to whom 
    participants are assigned.
        ``(21) School-age youth.--The term `school-age youth' means--
            ``(A) individuals between the ages of 5 and 17, inclusive; 
        and
            ``(B) children with disabilities, as defined in section 
        602(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)), who receive services under part B of such 
        Act.
        ``(22) Secondary school.--The term `secondary school' has the 
    same meaning given such term in section 1471(21) of the Elementary 
    and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(21)).
        ``(23) Service-learning.--The term `service-learning' means a 
    method--
            ``(A) under which students or participants learn and develop 
        through active participation in thoughtfully organized service 
        that--
                ``(i) is conducted in and meets the needs of a 
            community;
                ``(ii) is coordinated with an elementary school, 
            secondary school, institution of higher education, or 
            community service program, and with the community; and
                ``(iii) helps foster civic responsibility; and
            ``(B) that--
                ``(i) is integrated into and enhances the academic 
            curriculum of the students, or the educational components of 
            the community service program in which the participants are 
            enrolled; and
                ``(ii) provides structured time for the students or 
            participants to reflect on the service experience.
        ``(24) Service-learning coordinator.--The term `service-learning 
    coordinator' means an individual who provides services as described 
    in subsection (a)(3) or (b) of section 111.
        ``(25) Service sponsor.--The term `service sponsor' means an 
    organization, or other entity, that has been selected to provide a 
    placement for a participant.
        ``(26) State.--The term `State' means each of the several 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The term also includes 
    Palau, until such time as the Compact of Free Association is 
    ratified.
        ``(27) State commission.--The term `State Commission' means a 
    State Commission on National and Community Service maintained by a 
    State pursuant to section 178. Except when used in section 178, the 
    term includes an alternative administrative entity for a State 
    approved by the Corporation under such section to act in lieu of a 
    State Commission.
        ``(28) State educational agency.--The term `State educational 
    agency' has the same meaning given such term in section 1471(23) of 
    the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
    2891(23)).
        ``(29) Student.--The term `student' means an individual who is 
    enrolled in an elementary or secondary school or institution of 
    higher education on a full- or part-time basis.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 182(a)(2) of the National and Community Service Act 
    of 1990 (42 U.S.C 12642(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``adult 
    volunteer and partnership'' each place the term appears and 
    inserting ``partnership''.
        (2) Section 182(a)(3) of the National and Community Service Act 
    of 1990 (42 U.S.C 12642(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``adult 
    volunteer and partnership'' and inserting ``partnership''.
        (3) Section 441(c)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (42 
    U.S.C. 2751(c)(2)) is amended by striking ``service opportunities or 
    youth corps as defined in section 101 of the National and Community 
    Service Act of 1990, and service in the agencies, institutions and 
    activities designated in section 124(a) of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990'' and inserting ``a project, as 
    defined in section 101(20) of the National and Community Service Act 
    of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12511(20))''.
        (4) Section 1122(a)(2)(C) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
    (20 U.S.C. 1137a(a)(2)(C)) is amended by striking ``youth corps as 
    defined in section 101(30) of the National and Community Service Act 
    of 1990'' and inserting ``youth corps programs, as described in 
    section 122(a)(2) of the National and Community Service Act of 
    1990''.
        (5) Section 1201(p) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
    U.S.C. 1141(p)) is amended by striking ``section 101(22) of the 
    National and Community Service Act of 1990'' and inserting ``section 
    101(23) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
    12511(21))''.

SEC. 112. AUTHORITY TO MAKE STATE GRANTS.

    Section 102 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12512) is repealed.

SEC. 113. FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.

    (a) In General.--Section 171 of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12631) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 171. FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE.

    ``(a) Participants in Private, State, and Local Projects.--For 
purposes of title I of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (29 
U.S.C. 2601 et seq.), if--
        ``(1) a participant has provided service for the period required 
    by section 101(2)(A)(i) (29 U.S.C. 2611(2)(A)(i)), and has met the 
    hours of service requirement of section 101(2)(A)(ii), of such Act 
    with respect to a project; and
        ``(2) the service sponsor of the project is an employer 
    described in section 101(4) of such Act (other than an employing 
    agency within the meaning of subchapter V of chapter 63 of title 5, 
    United States Code),
the participant shall be considered to be an eligible employee of the 
service sponsor.
    ``(b) Participants in Federal Projects.--For purposes of subchapter 
V of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, if--
        ``(1) a participant has provided service for the period required 
    by section 6381(1)(B) of such title with respect to a project; and
        ``(2) the service sponsor of the project is an employing agency 
    within the meaning of such subchapter,
the participant shall be considered to be an employee of the service 
sponsor.
    ``(c) Treatment of Absence.--The period of any absence of a 
participant from a service position pursuant to title I of the Family 
and Medical Leave Act of 1993 or subchapter V of chapter 63 of title 5, 
United States Code, shall not be counted toward the completion of the 
term of service of the participant under section 139 of this Act.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 171 of such Act and inserting the 
following:
``Sec. 171. Family and medical leave.''.

SEC. 114. REPORTS.

    Section 172 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12632) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(3)(A), by striking ``sections 177 and 
    113(9)'' and inserting ``section 177'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``Report to Congress''; and inserting 
        ``Report to Congress by Corporation''; and
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``this title'' and 
        inserting ``the national service laws''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Report to Congress by Secretary of Defense.--
        ``(1) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall annually conduct a 
    study of the effect of the programs carried out under this title on 
    recruitment for the Armed Forces.
        ``(2) Report.--The Secretary of Defense shall annually submit a 
    report to the appropriate committees of Congress containing the 
    findings of the study described in paragraph (1) and such 
    recommendations for legislative and administrative reform as the 
    Secretary may determine to be appropriate.''.

SEC. 115. NONDISCRIMINATION.

    Section 175 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12635) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 175. NONDISCRIMINATION.

    ``(a) In General.--
        ``(1) Basis.--An individual with responsibility for the 
    operation of a project that receives assistance under this title 
    shall not discriminate against a participant in, or member of the 
    staff of, such project on the basis of race, color, national origin, 
    sex, age, or political affiliation of such participant or member, or 
    on the basis of disability, if the participant or member is a 
    qualified individual with a disability.
        ``(2) Definition.--As used in paragraph (1), the term `qualified 
    individual with a disability' has the meaning given the term in 
    section 101(8) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 
    U.S.C. 12111(8)).
    ``(b) Federal Financial Assistance.--Any assistance provided under 
this title shall constitute Federal financial assistance for purposes of 
title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), 
title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), 
section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and the 
Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.), and shall 
constitute Federal financial assistance to an education program or 
activity for purposes of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 
1681 et seq.).
    ``(c) Religious Discrimination.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
    individual with responsibility for the operation of a project that 
    receives assistance under this title shall not discriminate on the 
    basis of religion against a participant in such project or a member 
    of the staff of such project who is paid with funds received under 
    this title.
        ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the 
    employment, with assistance provided under this title, of any member 
    of the staff, of a project that receives assistance under this 
    title, who was employed with the organization operating the project 
    on the date the grant under this title was awarded.
    ``(d) Rules and Regulations.--The Chief Executive Officer shall 
promulgate rules and regulations to provide for the enforcement of this 
section that shall include provisions for summary suspension of 
assistance for not more than 30 days, on an emergency basis, until 
notice and an opportunity to be heard can be provided.''.
    SEC. 116. NOTICE, HEARING, AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
    (a) Decertification of Positions.--Section 176(a) of the National 
and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12636(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, or revoke the designation 
    of positions, related to the grant or contract, as approved national 
    service positions,'' before ``whenever the Commission''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by inserting ``or revoked'' after 
    ``terminated''.
    (b) Construction.--Section 176(e) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12636(e)) 
is amended by adding before the period the following ``, other than 
assistance provided pursuant to this Act''.
    (c) Grievance Procedure.--Section 176(f) of such Act is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(f) Grievance Procedure.--
        ``(1) In general.--A State or local applicant that receives 
    assistance under this title shall establish and maintain a procedure 
    for the filing and adjudication of grievances from participants, 
    labor organizations, and other interested individuals concerning 
    projects that receive assistance under this title, including 
    grievances regarding proposed placements of such participants in 
    such projects.
        ``(2) Deadline for grievances.--Except for a grievance that 
    alleges fraud or criminal activity, a grievance shall be made not 
    later than 1 year after the date of the alleged occurrence of the 
    event that is the subject of the grievance.
        ``(3) Deadline for hearing and decision.--
            ``(A) Hearing.--A hearing on any grievance conducted under 
        this subsection shall be conducted not later than 30 days after 
        the filing of such grievance.
            ``(B) Decision.--A decision on any such grievance shall be 
        made not later than 60 days after the filing of such grievance.
        ``(4) Arbitration.--
            ``(A) In general.--
                ``(i) Jointly selected arbitrator.--In the event of a 
            decision on a grievance that is adverse to the party who 
            filed such grievance, or 60 days after the filing of such 
            grievance if no decision has been reached, such party shall 
            be permitted to submit such grievance to binding arbitration 
            before a qualified arbitrator who is jointly selected and 
            independent of the interested parties.
                ``(ii) Appointed arbitrator.--If the parties cannot 
            agree on an arbitrator, the Chief Executive Officer shall 
            appoint an arbitrator from a list of qualified arbitrators 
            within 15 days after receiving a request for such 
            appointment from one of the parties to the grievance.
            ``(B) Deadline for proceeding.--An arbitration proceeding 
        shall be held not later than 45 days after the request for such 
        arbitration proceeding, or, if the arbitrator is appointed by 
        the Chief Executive Officer in accordance with subparagraph 
        (A)(ii), not later than 30 days after the appointment of such 
        arbitrator.
            ``(C) Deadline for decision.--A decision concerning a 
        grievance shall be made not later than 30 days after the date 
        such arbitration proceeding begins.
            ``(D) Cost.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), 
            the cost of an arbitration proceeding shall be divided 
            evenly between the parties to the arbitration.
                ``(ii) Exception.--If a participant, labor organization, 
            or other interested individual described in paragraph (1) 
            prevails under a binding arbitration proceeding, the State 
            or local applicant described in paragraph (1) that is a 
            party to such grievance shall pay the total cost of such 
            proceeding and the attorneys' fees of such participant, 
            labor organization, or individual, as the case may be.
        ``(5) Proposed placement.--If a grievance is filed regarding a 
    proposed placement of a participant in a project that receives 
    assistance under this title, such placement shall not be made unless 
    the placement is consistent with the resolution of the grievance 
    pursuant to this subsection.
        ``(6) Remedies.--Remedies for a grievance filed under this 
    subsection include--
            ``(A) suspension of payments for assistance under this 
        title;
            ``(B) termination of such payments;
            ``(C) prohibition of the placement described in paragraph 
        (5); and
            ``(D) in a case in which the grievance involves a violation 
        of subsection (a) or (b) of section 177 and the employer of the 
        displaced employee is the recipient of assistance under this 
        title--
                ``(i) reinstatement of the displaced employee to the 
            position held by such employee prior to displacement;
                ``(ii) payment of lost wages and benefits of the 
            displaced employee;
                ``(iii) reestablishment of other relevant terms, 
            conditions, and privileges of employment of the displaced 
            employee; and
                ``(iv) such equitable relief as is necessary to correct 
            any violation of subsection (a) or (b) of section 177 or to 
            make the displaced employee whole.
        ``(7) Enforcement.--Suits to enforce arbitration awards under 
    this section may be brought in any district court of the United 
    States having jurisdiction of the parties, without regard to the 
    amount in controversy and without regard to the citizenship of the 
    parties.''.

SEC. 117. NONDISPLACEMENT.

    Section 177(b)(3) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 
(42 U.S.C. 12637(b)(3)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), to read as follows:
            ``(B) Supplantation of hiring.--A participant in any program 
        receiving assistance under this title shall not perform any 
        services or duties, or engage in activities, that--
                ``(i) will supplant the hiring of employed workers; or
                ``(ii) are services, duties, or activities with respect 
            to which an individual has recall rights pursuant to a 
            collective bargaining agreement or applicable personnel 
            procedures.''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (C)(iii), to read as follows:
                ``(iii) employee who--

                    ``(I) is subject to a reduction in force; or
                    ``(II) has recall rights pursuant to a collective 
                bargaining agreement or applicable personnel 
                procedures;''.

SEC. 118. EVALUATION.

    Section 179 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12639) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``for purposes of the reports required by subsection (j),'' and 
        inserting ``with respect to the programs authorized under 
        subtitle C,''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``older American 
        volunteer programs'' and inserting ``National Senior Volunteer 
        Corps programs'';
        (2) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``subtitle D'' and inserting ``subtitle C''; and
            (B) in paragraphs (3) and (9), by striking ``older American 
        volunteer programs'' and inserting ``National Senior Volunteer 
        Corps programs'';
        (3) by striking subsections (i) and (j); and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Independent Evaluation and Report of Demographics of National 
Service Participants and Communities.--
        ``(1) Independent evaluation.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Corporation shall, on an annual 
        basis, arrange for an independent evaluation of the programs 
        assisted under subtitle C.
            ``(B) Participants.--
                ``(i) In general.--The entity conducting such evaluation 
            shall determine the demographic characteristics of the 
            participants in such programs.
                ``(ii) Characteristics.--The entity shall determine, for 
            the year covered by the evaluation, the total number of 
            participants in the programs, and the number of participants 
            within the programs in each State, by sex, age, economic 
            background, education level, ethnic group, disability 
            classification, and geographic region.
                ``(iii) Categories.--The Corporation shall determine 
            appropriate categories for analysis of each of the 
            characteristics referred to in clause (ii) for purposes of 
            such an evaluation.
            ``(C) Communities.--In conducting the evaluation, the entity 
        shall determine the amount of assistance provided under section 
        121 during the year that has been expended for projects 
        conducted under the programs in areas described in section 
        133(c)(6).
        ``(2) Report.--The entity conducting the evaluation shall submit 
    a report to the President, Congress, the Corporation, and each State 
    Commission containing the results of the evaluation--
            ``(A) with respect to the evaluation covering the year 
        beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection, not later 
        than 18 months after such date; and
            ``(B) with respect to the evaluation covering each 
        subsequent year, not later than 18 months after the first day of 
        each such year.''.

SEC. 119. ENGAGEMENT OF PARTICIPANTS.

    Section 180 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
U.S.C. 12640) is amended by striking ``post-service benefits'' and 
inserting ``national service educational awards''.

SEC. 120. CONTINGENT EXTENSION.

    (a) In General.--Section 181 of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12641) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 181. CONTINGENT EXTENSION.

    ``Section 414 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 
1226a) shall apply to this Act.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 181 of such Act and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 181. Contingent extension.''.

SEC. 121. AUDITS.

    (a) In General.--Section 183 of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12643) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 183. RIGHTS OF ACCESS, EXAMINATION, AND COPYING.

    ``(a) Comptroller General.--The Comptroller General, or any of the 
duly authorized representatives of the Comptroller General, shall have 
access to, and the right to examine and copy, any books, documents, 
papers, records, and other recorded information in any form--
        ``(1) within the possession or control of the Corporation or any 
    State or local government, Indian tribe, or public or private 
    nonprofit organization receiving assistance directly or indirectly 
    under this Act; and
        ``(2) that the Comptroller General, or his representative, 
    considers necessary to the performance of an evaluation, audit, or 
    review.
    ``(b) Chief Financial Officer.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
Corporation shall have access to, and the right to examine and copy, any 
books, documents, papers, records, and other recorded information in any 
form--
        ``(1) within the possession or control of the Corporation or any 
    State or local government, Indian tribe, or public or private 
    nonprofit organization receiving assistance directly or indirectly 
    under this Act; and
        ``(2) that relates to the duties of the Chief Financial 
    Officer.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 183 of such Act and inserting the 
following:
``Sec. 183. Rights of access, examination, and copying.''.

SEC. 122. REPEALS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle F of title I of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12631 et seq.) is amended by repealing 
sections 185 and 186.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 185 of such Act.

SEC. 123. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title, and the amendments made by this title, shall take effect 
on October 1, 1993.
                         TITLE II--ORGANIZATION
    SEC. 201. STATE COMMISSIONS ON NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    (a) Composition and Duties of State Commissions.--Subtitle F of 
title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 is amended by 
striking section 178 (42 U.S.C. 12638) and inserting the following new 
section:
``SEC. 178. STATE COMMISSIONS ON NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    ``(a) Existence Required.--
        ``(1) State commission.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), to 
    be eligible to receive a grant or allotment under subtitle B or C or 
    to receive a distribution of approved national service positions 
    under subtitle C, a State shall maintain a State Commission on 
    National and Community Service that satisfies the requirements of 
    this section.
        ``(2) Alternative administrative entity.--The chief executive 
    officer of a State may apply to the Corporation for approval to use 
    an alternative administrative entity to carry out the duties 
    otherwise entrusted to a State Commission under this Act. The chief 
    executive officer shall ensure that any alternative administrative 
    entity used in lieu of a State Commission provides for the 
    individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals 
    described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) to play a significant 
    policymaking role in carrying out the duties otherwise entrusted to 
    a State Commission, including the submission of applications on 
    behalf of the State under sections 117B and 130.
    ``(b) Appointment and Size.--Except as provided in subsection 
(c)(3), the members of a State Commission for a State shall be appointed 
by the chief executive officer of the State. A State Commission shall 
consist of not fewer than 15, and not more than 25, voting members, and 
any ex officio nonvoting members, as described in paragraph (3) or (4) 
of subsection (c).
    ``(c) Composition and Membership.--
        ``(1) Required members.--The State Commission for a State shall 
    include as voting members at least one of each of the following 
    individuals:
            ``(A) An individual with expertise in the educational, 
        training, and development needs of youth, particularly 
        disadvantaged youth.
            ``(B) An individual with experience in promoting the 
        involvement of older adults in service and voluntarism.
            ``(C) A representative of community-based agencies or 
        community-based organizations within the State.
            ``(D) The head of the State educational agency.
            ``(E) A representative of local governments in the State.
            ``(F) A representative of local labor organizations in the 
        State.
            ``(G) A representative of business.
            ``(H) An individual between the ages of 16 and 25 who is a 
        participant or supervisor in a program.
            ``(I) A representative of a national service program 
        described in section 122(a), such as a youth corps program 
        described in section 122(a)(2).
        ``(2) Sources of other members.--The State Commission for a 
    State may include as voting members the following individuals:
            ``(A) Members selected from among local educators.
            ``(B) Members selected from among experts in the delivery of 
        human, educational, environmental, or public safety services to 
        communities and persons.
            ``(C) Representatives of Indian tribes.
            ``(D) Members selected from among out-of-school youth or 
        other at-risk youth.
            ``(E) Representatives of entities that receive assistance 
        under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 
        et seq.).
        ``(3) Corporation representative.--The representative of the 
    Corporation designated under section 195(c) for a State shall be an 
    ex officio nonvoting member of the State Commission or alternative 
    administrative entity for that State, unless the State permits the 
    representative to serve as a voting member of the State Commission 
    or alternative administrative entity.
        ``(4) Ex officio state representatives.--The chief executive 
    officer of a State may appoint, as ex officio nonvoting members of 
    the State Commission for the State, representatives selected from 
    among officers and employees of State agencies operating community 
    service, youth service, education, social service, senior service, 
    and job training programs.
        ``(5) Limitation on number of state employees as members.--The 
    number of voting members of a State Commission selected under 
    paragraph (1) or (2) who are officers or employees of the State may 
    not exceed 25 percent (reduced to the nearest whole number) of the 
    total membership of the State Commission.
    ``(d) Miscellaneous Matters.--
        ``(1) Membership balance.--The chief executive officer of a 
    State shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that the 
    membership of the State Commission for the State is diverse with 
    respect to race, ethnicity, age, gender, and disability 
    characteristics. Not more than 50 percent of the voting members of a 
    State Commission, plus one additional member, may be from the same 
    political party.
        ``(2) Terms.--Each member of the State Commission for a State 
    shall serve for a term of 3 years, except that the chief executive 
    officer of a State shall initially appoint a portion of the members 
    to terms of 1 year and 2 years.
        ``(3) Vacancies.--If a vacancy occurs on a State Commission, a 
    new member shall be appointed by the chief executive officer of the 
    State and serve for the remainder of the term for which the 
    predecessor of such member was appointed. The vacancy shall not 
    affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of 
    the State Commission.
        ``(4) Compensation.--A member of a State Commission or 
    alternative administrative entity shall not receive any additional 
    compensation by reason of service on the State Commission or 
    alternative administrative entity, except that the State may 
    authorize the reimbursement of travel expenses, including a per diem 
    in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as other employees 
    serving intermittently in the service of the State.
        ``(5) Chairperson.--The voting members of a State Commission 
    shall elect one of the voting members to serve as chairperson of the 
    State Commission.
        ``(6) Limitation on member participation.--
            ``(A) General limitation.--Except as provided in 
        subparagraph (B), a voting member of the State Commission (or of 
        an alternative administrative entity) shall not participate in 
        the administration of the grant program (including any 
        discussion or decision regarding the provision of assistance or 
        approved national service positions, or the continuation, 
        suspension, or termination of such assistance or such positions, 
        to any program or entity) described in subsection (e)(9) if--
                ``(i) a grant application relating to such program is 
            pending before the Commission (or such entity); and
                ``(ii) the application was submitted by a program or 
            entity of which such member is, or in the 1-year period 
            before the submission of such application was, an officer, 
            director, trustee, full-time volunteer, or employee.
            ``(B) Exception.--If, as a result of the operation of 
        subparagraph (A), the number of voting members of the Commission 
        (or of such entity) is insufficient to establish a quorum for 
        the purpose of administering such program, then voting members 
        excluded from participation by subparagraph (A) may participate 
        in the administration of such program, notwithstanding the 
        limitation in subparagraph (A), to the extent permitted by 
        regulations issued under section 193A(b)(11) by the Corporation.
            ``(C) Rule of construction.--Subparagraph (A) shall not be 
        construed to limit the authority of any voting member of the 
        Commission (or of such entity) to participate in--
                ``(i) discussion of, and hearing and forums on--

                    ``(I) the general duties, policies, and operations 
                of the Commission (or of such entity); or
                    ``(II) the general administration of such program; 
                or

                ``(ii) similar general matters relating to the 
            Commission (or such entity).
    ``(e) Duties of a State Commission.--The State Commission or 
alternative administrative entity for a State shall be responsible for 
the following duties:
        ``(1) Preparation of a national service plan for the State 
    that--
            ``(A) is developed through an open and public process (such 
        as through regional forums, hearings, and other means) that 
        provides for maximum participation and input from national 
        service programs within the State and other interested members 
        of the public;
            ``(B) covers a 3-year period;
            ``(C) is updated annually;
            ``(D) ensures outreach to diverse community-based agencies 
        that serve underrepresented populations, by--
                ``(i) using established networks, and registries, at the 
            State level; or
                ``(ii) establishing such networks and registries; and
            ``(E) contains such information as the State Commission 
        considers to be appropriate or as the Corporation may require.
        ``(2) Preparation of the applications of the State under 
    sections 117B and 130 for financial assistance.
        ``(3) Assistance in the preparation of the application of the 
    State educational agency for assistance under section 113.
        ``(4) Preparation of the application of the State under section 
    130 for the approval of service positions that include the national 
    service educational award described in subtitle D.
        ``(5) Make recommendations to the Corporation with respect to 
    priorities for programs receiving assistance under the Domestic 
    Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).
        ``(6) Make technical assistance available to enable applicants 
    for assistance under section 121--
            ``(A) to plan and implement service programs; and
            ``(B) to apply for assistance under the national service 
        laws using, if appropriate, information and materials available 
        through a clearinghouse established under section 198A.
        ``(7) Assistance in the provision of health care and child care 
    benefits under section 140 to participants in national service 
    programs that receive assistance under section 121.
        ``(8) Development of a State system for the recruitment and 
    placement of participants in programs that receive assistance under 
    the national service laws and dissemination of information 
    concerning national service programs that receive such assistance or 
    approved national service positions.
        ``(9) Administration of the grant program in support of national 
    service programs that is conducted by the State using assistance 
    provided to the State under section 121, including selection, 
    oversight, and evaluation of grant recipients.
        ``(10) Development of projects, training methods, curriculum 
    materials, and other materials and activities related to national 
    service programs that receive assistance directly from the 
    Corporation (to be made available in a case in which such a program 
    requests such a project, method, material, or activity) or from the 
    State using assistance provided under section 121, for use by 
    programs that request such projects, methods, materials, and 
    activities.
    ``(f) Activity Ineligible for Assistance.--A State Commission or 
alternative administrative entity may not directly carry out any 
national service program that receives assistance under section 121.
    ``(g) Delegation.--Subject to such requirements as the Corporation 
may prescribe, a State Commission may delegate nonpolicymaking duties to 
a State agency or public or private nonprofit organization.
    ``(h) Approval of State Commission or Alternative.--
        ``(1) Submission to corporation.--The chief executive officer 
    for a State shall notify the Corporation of the establishment or 
    designation of the State Commission or use of an alternative 
    administrative entity for the State. The notification shall include 
    a description of--
            ``(A) the composition and membership of the State Commission 
        or alternative administrative entity; and
            ``(B) the authority of the State Commission or alternative 
        administrative entity regarding national service activities 
        carried out by the State.
        ``(2) Approval of alternative administrative entity.--Any 
    designation of a State Commission or use of an alternative 
    administrative entity to carry out the duties of a State Commission 
    shall be subject to the approval of the Corporation, which shall not 
    be unreasonably withheld. The Corporation shall approve an 
    alternative administrative entity if such entity provides for 
    individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals 
    described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) to play a significant 
    policymaking role in carrying out the duties otherwise entrusted to 
    a State Commission, including the duties described in paragraphs (1) 
    through (4) of subsection (e).
        ``(3) Rejection.--The Corporation may reject a State Commission 
    if the Corporation determines that the composition, membership, or 
    duties of the State Commission do not comply with the requirements 
    of this section. The Corporation may reject a request to use an 
    alternative administrative entity in lieu of a State Commission if 
    the Corporation determines that the entity does not provide for the 
    individuals described in paragraph (1), and some of the individuals 
    described in paragraph (2), of subsection (c) to play a significant 
    policymaking role as described in paragraph (2). If the Corporation 
    rejects a State Commission or alternative administrative entity 
    under this paragraph, the Corporation shall promptly notify the 
    State of the reasons for the rejection.
        ``(4) Resubmission and reconsideration.--The Corporation shall 
    provide a State notified under paragraph (3) with a reasonable 
    opportunity to revise the rejected State Commission or alternative 
    administrative entity. At the request of the State, the Corporation 
    shall provide technical assistance to the State as part of the 
    revision process. The Corporation shall promptly reconsider any 
    resubmission of a notification under paragraph (1) or application to 
    use an alternative administrative entity under paragraph (2).
        ``(5) Subsequent changes.--This subsection shall also apply to 
    any change in the composition or duties of a State Commission or an 
    alternative administrative entity made after approval of the State 
    Commission or the alternative administrative entity.
        ``(6) Rights.--An alternative administrative entity approved by 
    the Corporation under this subsection shall have the same rights as 
    a State Commission.
    ``(i) Coordination.--
        ``(1) Coordination with other state agencies.--The State 
    Commission or alternative administrative entity for a State shall 
    coordinate the activities of the Commission or entity under this Act 
    with the activities of other State agencies that administer Federal 
    financial assistance programs under the Community Services Block 
    Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 et seq.) or other appropriate Federal 
    financial assistance programs.
        ``(2) Coordination with volunteer service programs.--
            ``(A) In general.--The State Commission or alternative 
        administrative entity for a State shall coordinate functions of 
        the Commission or entity (including recruitment, public 
        awareness, and training activities) with such functions of any 
        division of ACTION, or of the Corporation, that carries out 
        volunteer service programs in the State.
            ``(B) Agreement.--In coordinating functions under this 
        paragraph, such Commission or entity, and such division, may 
        enter into an agreement to--
                ``(i) carry out such a function jointly;
                ``(ii) to assign responsibility for such a function to 
            the Commission or entity; or
                ``(iii) to assign responsibility for such a function to 
            the division.
            ``(C) Information.--The State Commission or alternative 
        entity for a State, and the head of any such division, shall 
        exchange information about--
                ``(i) the programs carried out in the State by the 
            Commission, entity, or division, as appropriate; and
                ``(ii) opportunities to coordinate activities.
    ``(j) Liability.--
        ``(1) Liability of state.--Except as provided in paragraph 
    (2)(B), a State shall agree to assume liability with respect to any 
    claim arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by a 
    member of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity 
    of the State, within the scope of the service of the member on the 
    State Commission or alternative administrative entity.
        ``(2) Other claims.--
            ``(A) In general.--A member of the State Commission or 
        alternative administrative entity shall have no personal 
        liability with respect to any claim arising out of or resulting 
        from any act or omission by such person, within the scope of the 
        service of the member on the State Commission or alternative 
        administrative entity.
            ``(B) Limitation.--This paragraph shall not be construed to 
        limit personal liability for criminal acts or omissions, willful 
        or malicious misconduct, acts or omissions for private gain, or 
        any other act or omission outside the scope of the service of 
        such member on the State Commission or alternative 
        administrative entity.
        ``(3) Effect on other law.--This subsection shall not be 
    construed--
            ``(A) to affect any other immunities and protections that 
        may be available to such member under applicable law with 
        respect to such service;
            ``(B) to affect any other right or remedy against the State 
        under applicable law, or against any person other than a member 
        of the State Commission or alternative administrative entity; or
            ``(C) to limit or alter in any way the immunities that are 
        available under applicable law for State officials and employees 
        not described in this subsection.''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the item relating to section 178 and inserting the following 
new item:
``Sec. 178. State Commissions on National and Community Service.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 1993.
    (d) Transitional Provisions.--
        (1) Use of alternatives to state commission.--If a State does 
    not have a State Commission on National and Community Service that 
    satisfies the requirements specified in section 178 of the National 
    and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended by subsection (a), the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service may authorize the 
    chief executive officer of the State to use an existing agency of 
    the State to perform the duties otherwise reserved to a State 
    Commission under subsection (e) of such section.
        (2) Application of subsection.--This subsection shall apply only 
    during the 27-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
    SEC. 202. INTERIM AUTHORITIES OF THE CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND 
      COMMUNITY SERVICE AND ACTION AGENCY.
    (a) National and Community Service Act of 1990.--Subtitle G of title 
I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12651) is 
amended to read as follows:
      ``Subtitle G--Corporation for National and Community Service
``SEC. 191. CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    ``There is established a Corporation for National and Community 
Service that shall administer the programs established under this Act. 
The Corporation shall be a Government corporation, as defined in section 
103 of title 5, United States Code.

``SEC. 192. BOARD OF DIRECTORS.

    ``(a) Composition.--
        ``(1) In general.--There shall be in the Corporation a Board of 
    Directors (referred to in this subtitle as the `Board') that shall 
    be composed of--
            ``(A) 15 members, including an individual between the ages 
        of 16 and 25 who--
                ``(i) has served in a school-based or community-based 
            service-learning program; or
                ``(ii) is or was a participant or a supervisor in a 
            program;
        to be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
        consent of the Senate; and
            ``(B) the ex officio nonvoting members described in 
        paragraph (3).
        ``(2) Qualifications.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
    President shall appoint members--
            ``(A) who have extensive experience in volunteer or service 
        activities, which may include programs funded under one of the 
        national service laws, and in State government;
            ``(B) who represent a broad range of viewpoints;
            ``(C) who are experts in the delivery of human, educational, 
        environmental, or public safety services;
            ``(D) so that the Board shall be diverse according to race, 
        ethnicity, age, gender, and disability characteristics; and
            ``(E) so that no more than 50 percent of the appointed 
        members of the Board, plus 1 additional appointed member, are 
        from a single political party.
        ``(3) Ex officio members.--The Secretary of Education, the 
    Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, the 
    Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the 
    Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Attorney General, the Director of the Peace Corps, the 
    Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Chief 
    Executive Officer shall serve as ex officio nonvoting members of the 
    Board.
    ``(b) Officers.--
        ``(1) Chairperson.--The President shall appoint a member of the 
    Board to serve as the initial Chairperson of the Board. Each 
    subsequent Chairperson shall be elected by the Board from among its 
    members.
        ``(2) Vice chairperson.--The Board shall elect a Vice 
    Chairperson from among its membership.
        ``(3) Other officers.--The Board may elect from among its 
    membership such additional officers of the Board as the Board 
    determines to be appropriate.
    ``(c) Terms.--Each appointed member of the Board shall serve for a 
term of 5 years, except that, as designated by the President--
        ``(1) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve 
    for a term of 1 year;
        ``(2) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve 
    for a term of 2 years;
        ``(3) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve 
    for a term of 3 years;
        ``(4) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve 
    for a term of 4 years; and
        ``(5) 3 of the members first appointed to the Board shall serve 
    for a term of 5 years.
    ``(d) Vacancies.--If a vacancy occurs on the Board, a new member 
shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate, and serve for the remainder of the term for which the 
predecessor of such member was appointed. The vacancy shall not affect 
the power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Board.
``SEC. 192A. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
    ``(a) Meetings.--The Board shall meet not less often than 3 times 
each year. The Board shall hold additional meetings at the call of the 
Chairperson of the Board, or if 6 members of the Board request such 
meetings in writing.
    ``(b) Quorum.--A majority of the appointed members of the Board 
shall constitute a quorum.
    ``(c) Authorities of Officers.--
        ``(1) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Board may call and 
    conduct meetings of the Board.
        ``(2) Vice chairperson.--The Vice Chairperson of the Board may 
    conduct meetings of the Board in the absence of the Chairperson.
    ``(d) Expenses.--While away from their homes or regular places of 
business on the business of the Board, members of such Board shall be 
allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 
57 of title 5, United States Code, for persons employed intermittently 
in the Government service.
    ``(e) Special Government Employees.--For purposes of the provisions 
of chapter 11 of part I of title 18, United States Code, and any other 
provision of Federal law, a member of the Board (to whom such provisions 
would not otherwise apply except for this subsection) shall be a special 
Government employee.
    ``(f) Status of Members.--
        ``(1) Tort claims.--For the purposes of the tort claims 
    provisions of chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, a member 
    of the Board shall be considered to be a Federal employee.
        ``(2) Other claims.--A member of the Board shall have no 
    personal liability under Federal law with respect to any claim 
    arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by such person, 
    within the scope of the service of the member on the Board, in 
    connection with any transaction involving the provision of financial 
    assistance by the Corporation. This paragraph shall not be construed 
    to limit personal liability for criminal acts or omissions, willful 
    or malicious misconduct, acts or omissions for private gain, or any 
    other act or omission outside the scope of the service of such 
    member on the Board.
        ``(3) Effect on other law.--This subsection shall not be 
    construed--
            ``(A) to affect any other immunities and protections that 
        may be available to such member under applicable law with 
        respect to such transactions;
            ``(B) to affect any other right or remedy against the 
        Corporation, against the United States under applicable law, or 
        against any person other than a member of the Board 
        participating in such transactions; or
            ``(C) to limit or alter in any way the immunities that are 
        available under applicable law for Federal officials and 
        employees not described in this subsection.
    ``(g) Duties.--The Board shall--
        ``(1) review and approve the strategic plan described in section 
    193A(b)(1), and annual updates of the plan;
        ``(2) review and approve the proposal described in section 
    193A(b)(2)(A), with respect to the grants, allotments, contracts, 
    financial assistance, payment, and positions referred to in such 
    section;
        ``(3) review and approve the proposal described in section 
    193A(b)(3)(A), regarding the regulations, standards, policies, 
    procedures, programs, and initiatives referred to in such section;
        ``(4) review and approve the evaluation plan described in 
    section 193A(b)(4)(A);
        ``(5)(A) review, and advise the Chief Executive Officer 
    regarding, the actions of the Chief Executive Officer with respect 
    to the personnel of the Corporation, and with respect to such 
    standards, policies, procedures, programs, and initiatives as are 
    necessary or appropriate to carry out this Act; and
        ``(B) inform the Chief Executive Officer of any aspects of the 
    actions of the Chief Executive Officer that are not in compliance 
    with the annual strategic plan referred to in paragraph (1), the 
    proposals referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3), or the plan 
    referred to in paragraph (4), or are not consistent with the 
    objectives of this Act;
        ``(6) receive any report as provided under subsection (b), (c), 
    or (d) of section 8E of the Inspector General Act of 1978;
        ``(7) make recommendations relating to a program of research for 
    the Corporation with respect to national and community service 
    programs, including service-learning programs;
        ``(8) advise the President and the Congress concerning 
    developments in national and community service that merit the 
    attention of the President and the Congress;
        ``(9) ensure effective dissemination of information regarding 
    the programs and initiatives of the Corporation; and
        ``(10) prepare and make recommendations to the Congress and the 
    President for changes in this Act resulting from the studies and 
    demonstrations the Chief Executive Officer is required to carry out 
    under section 193A(b)(10), which recommendations shall be submitted 
    to the Congress and President not later than September 30, 1995.
    ``(h) Administration.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. 
App.) shall not apply with respect to the Board.
    ``(i) Limitation on Participation.--All employees and officers of 
the Corporation shall recuse themselves from decisions that would 
constitute conflicts of interest.
    ``(j) Coordination With Other Federal Activities.--As part of the 
agenda of meetings of the Board under subsection (a), the Board shall 
review projects and programs conducted or funded by the Corporation 
under the national service laws to improve the coordination between such 
projects and programs, and the activities of other Federal agencies that 
deal with the individuals and communities participating in or benefiting 
from such projects and programs. The ex officio members of the Board 
specified in section 192(a)(3) shall jointly plan, implement, and fund 
activities in connection with projects and programs conducted under the 
national service laws to ensure that Federal efforts attempt to address 
the total needs of participants in such programs and projects, their 
communities, and the persons and communities the participants serve.

``SEC. 193. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.

    ``(a) Appointment.--The Corporation shall be headed by an individual 
who shall serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, and who 
shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate.
    ``(b) Compensation.--The Chief Executive Officer shall be 
compensated at the rate provided for level III of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5314 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(c) Regulations.--The Chief Executive Officer shall prescribe such 
rules and regulations as are necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
Act.
``SEC. 193A. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
    ``(a) General Powers and Duties.--The Chief Executive Officer shall 
be responsible for the exercise of the powers and the discharge of the 
duties of the Corporation that are not reserved to the Board, and shall 
have authority and control over all personnel of the Corporation, except 
as provided in section 8E of the Inspector General Act of 1978.
    ``(b) Duties.--In addition to the duties conferred on the Chief 
Executive Officer under any other provision of this Act, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall--
        ``(1) prepare and submit to the Board a strategic plan every 3 
    years, and annual updates of the plan, for the Corporation with 
    respect to the major functions and operations of the Corporation;
        ``(2)(A) prepare and submit to the Board a proposal with respect 
    to such grants and allotments, contracts, other financial 
    assistance, and designation of positions as approved national 
    service positions, as are necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
    Act; and
        ``(B) after receiving and reviewing an approved proposal under 
    section 192A(g)(2), make such grants and allotments, enter into such 
    contracts, award such other financial assistance, make such payments 
    (in lump sum or installments, and in advance or by way of 
    reimbursement, and in the case of financial assistance otherwise 
    authorized under this Act, with necessary adjustments on account of 
    overpayments and underpayments), and designate such positions as 
    approved national service positions as are necessary or appropriate 
    to carry out this Act;
        ``(3)(A) prepare and submit to the Board a proposal regarding, 
    the regulations established under section 195(b)(3)(A), and such 
    other standards, policies, procedures, programs, and initiatives as 
    are necessary or appropriate to carry out this Act; and
        ``(B) after receiving and reviewing an approved proposal under 
    section 192A(g)(3)--
            ``(i) establish such standards, policies, and procedures as 
        are necessary or appropriate to carry out this Act; and
            ``(ii) establish and administer such programs and 
        initiatives as are necessary or appropriate to carry out this 
        Act;
        ``(4)(A) prepare and submit to the Board a plan for the 
    evaluation of programs established under this Act, in accordance 
    with section 179; and
        ``(B) after receiving an approved proposal under section 
    192A(g)(4)--
            ``(i) establish measurable performance goals and objectives 
        for such programs, in accordance with section 179; and
            ``(ii) provide for periodic evaluation of such programs to 
        assess the manner and extent to which the programs achieve the 
        goals and objectives, in accordance with such section;
        ``(5) consult with appropriate Federal agencies in administering 
    the programs and initiatives;
        ``(6) suspend or terminate payments and positions described in 
    paragraph (2)(B), in accordance with section 176;
        ``(7) prepare and submit to the Board an annual report, and such 
    interim reports as may be necessary, describing the major actions of 
    the Chief Executive Officer with respect to the personnel of the 
    Corporation, and with respect to such standards, policies, 
    procedures, programs, and initiatives;
        ``(8) inform the Board of, and provide an explanation to the 
    Board regarding, any substantial differences regarding the 
    implementation of this Act between--
            ``(A) the actions of the Chief Executive Officer; and
            ``(B)(i) the strategic plan approved by the Board under 
        section 192A(g)(1);
            ``(ii) the proposals approved by the Board under paragraph 
        (2) or (3) of section 192A(g); or
            ``(iii) the evaluation plan approved by the Board under 
        section 192A(g)(4);
        ``(9) prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress an annual report, and such interim reports as may be 
    necessary, describing--
            ``(A) the services referred to in paragraph (1), and the 
        money and property referred to in paragraph (2), of section 
        196(a) that have been accepted by the Corporation;
            ``(B) the manner in which the Corporation used or disposed 
        of such services, money, and property; and
            ``(C) information on the results achieved by the programs 
        funded under this Act during the year preceding the year in 
        which the report is prepared;
        ``(10) provide for studies (including the evaluations described 
    in subsection (f)) and demonstrations that evaluate, and prepare and 
    submit to the Board by June 30, 1995, a report containing 
    recommendations regarding, issues related to--
            ``(A) the administration and organization of programs 
        authorized under the national service laws or under Public Law 
        91-378 (referred to in this subparagraph as `service programs'), 
        including--
                ``(i) whether the State and national priorities designed 
            to meet the unmet human, education, environmental, or public 
            safety needs described in section 122(c)(1) are being 
            addressed by this Act;
                ``(ii) the manner in which--

                    ``(I) educational and other outcomes of both 
                stipended and nonstipended service and service-learning 
                are defined and measured in such service programs; and
                    ``(II) such outcomes should be defined and measured 
                in such service programs;

                ``(iii) whether stipended service programs, and service 
            programs providing educational benefits in return for 
            service, should focus on economically disadvantaged 
            individuals or at-risk youth or whether such programs should 
            include a mix of individuals, including individuals from 
            middle- and upper-income families;
                ``(iv) the role and importance of stipends and 
            educational benefits in achieving desired outcomes in the 
            service programs;
                ``(v) the potential for cost savings and coordination of 
            support and oversight services from combining functions 
            performed by ACTION State offices and State Commissions;
                ``(vi) the implications of the results from such studies 
            and demonstrations for authorized funding levels for the 
            service programs; and
                ``(vii) other issues that the Director determines to be 
            relevant to the administration and organization of the 
            service programs; and
            ``(B) the number, potential consolidation, and future 
        organization of national service or domestic volunteer service 
        programs that are authorized under Federal law, including VISTA, 
        service corps assisted under subtitle C and other programs 
        authorized by this Act, programs administered by the Public 
        Health Service, the Department of Defense, or other Federal 
        agencies, programs regarding teacher corps, and programs 
        regarding work-study and higher education loan forgiveness or 
        forbearance programs authorized by the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) related to community service; and
        ``(11) for purposes of section 178(d)(6)(B), issue regulations 
    to waive the disqualification of members of the Board and members of 
    the State Commissions selectively in a random, nondiscretionary 
    manner and only to the extent necessary to establish the quorum 
    involved, including rules that forbid each member of the Board and 
    each voting member of a State Commission to participate in any 
    discussion or decision regarding the provision of assistance or 
    approved national service positions, or the continuation, 
    suspension, or termination of such assistance or such positions, to 
    any program or entity of which such member of the Board or such 
    member of the State Commission is, or in the 1-year period before 
    the submission of the application referred to in such section was, 
    an officer, director, trustee, full-time volunteer, or employee.
    ``(c) Powers.--In addition to the authority conferred on the Chief 
Executive Officer under any other provision of this Act, the Chief 
Executive Officer may--
        ``(1) establish, alter, consolidate, or discontinue such 
    organizational units or components within the Corporation as the 
    Chief Executive Officer considers necessary or appropriate, 
    consistent with Federal law, and shall, to the maximum extent 
    practicable, consolidate such units or components of the divisions 
    of the Corporation described in section 194(a)(3) as may be 
    appropriate to enable the two divisions to coordinate common support 
    functions;
        ``(2) with the approval of the President, arrange with and 
    reimburse the heads of other Federal agencies for the performance of 
    any of the provisions of this Act;
        ``(3) with their consent, utilize the services and facilities of 
    Federal agencies with or without reimbursement, and, with the 
    consent of any State, or political subdivision of a State, accept 
    and utilize the services and facilities of the agencies of such 
    State or subdivisions without reimbursement;
        ``(4) allocate and expend funds made available under this Act;
        ``(5) disseminate, without regard to the provisions of section 
    3204 of title 39, United States Code, data and information, in such 
    form as the Chief Executive Officer shall determine to be 
    appropriate to public agencies, private organizations, and the 
    general public;
        ``(6) collect or compromise all obligations to or held by the 
    Chief Executive Officer and all legal or equitable rights accruing 
    to the Chief Executive Officer in connection with the payment of 
    obligations in accordance with chapter 37 of title 31, United States 
    Code (commonly known as the `Federal Claims Collection Act of 
    1966');
        ``(7) file a civil action in any court of record of a State 
    having general jurisdiction or in any district court of the United 
    States, with respect to a claim arising under this Act;
        ``(8) exercise the authorities of the Corporation under section 
    196;
        ``(9) consolidate the reports to Congress required under this 
    Act, and the report required under section 9106 of title 31, United 
    States Code, into a single report, and submit the report to Congress 
    on an annual basis; and
        ``(10) generally perform such functions and take such steps 
    consistent with the objectives and provisions of this Act, as the 
    Chief Executive Officer determines to be necessary or appropriate to 
    carry out such provisions.
    ``(d) Delegation.--
        ``(1) Definition.--As used in this subsection, the term 
    `function' means any duty, obligation, power, authority, 
    responsibility, right, privilege, activity, or program.
        ``(2) In general.--Except as otherwise prohibited by law or 
    provided in this Act, the Chief Executive Officer may delegate any 
    function under this Act, and authorize such successive redelegations 
    of such function as may be necessary or appropriate. No delegation 
    of a function by the Chief Executive Officer under this subsection 
    or under any other provision of this Act shall relieve such Chief 
    Executive Officer of responsibility for the administration of such 
    function.
        ``(3) Function of board.--The Chief Executive Officer may not 
    delegate a function of the Board without the permission of the 
    Board.
    ``(e) Actions.--In an action described in subsection (c)(7)--
        ``(1) a district court referred to in such subsection shall have 
    jurisdiction of such a civil action without regard to the amount in 
    controversy;
        ``(2) such an action brought by the Chief Executive Officer 
    shall survive notwithstanding any change in the person occupying the 
    office of Chief Executive Officer or any vacancy in that office;
        ``(3) no attachment, injunction, garnishment, or other similar 
    process, mesne or final, shall be issued against the Chief Executive 
    Officer or the Board or property under the control of the Chief 
    Executive Officer or the Board; and
        ``(4) nothing in this section shall be construed to except 
    litigation arising out of activities under this Act from the 
    application of sections 509, 517, 547, and 2679 of title 28, United 
    States Code.
    ``(f) Evaluations.--
        ``(1) Evaluation of living allowance.--The Corporation shall 
    arrange for an independent evaluation to determine the levels of 
    living allowances paid in all programs under subtitles C and I, 
    individually, by State, and by region. Such evaluation shall 
    determine the effects that such living allowances have had on the 
    ability of individuals to participate in such programs.
        ``(2) Evaluation of success of investment in national service.--
            ``(A) Evaluation required.--The Corporation shall arrange 
        for the independent evaluation of the operation of subtitle C to 
        determine the levels of participation of economically 
        disadvantaged individuals in national service programs carried 
        out or supported using assistance provided under section 121.
            ``(B) Period covered by evaluation.--The evaluation required 
        by this paragraph shall cover the period beginning on the date 
        the Corporation first makes a grant under section 121, and 
        ending on a date that is as close as is practicable to the date 
        specified in subsection (b)(10).
            ``(C) Income levels of participants.--The evaluating entity 
        shall determine the total income of each participant who serves, 
        during the period covered by the evaluation, in a national 
        service program carried out or supported using assistance 
        provided under section 121 or in an approved national service 
        position. The total income of the participant shall be 
        determined as of the date the participant was first selected to 
        participate in such a program and shall include family total 
        income unless the evaluating entity determines that the 
        participant was independent at the time of selection.
            ``(D) Assistance for distressed areas.--The evaluating 
        entity shall also determine the amount of assistance provided 
        under section 121 during the period covered by the report that 
        has been expended for projects conducted in areas of economic 
        distress described in section 133(c)(6).
            ``(E) Definitions.--As used in this paragraph:
                ``(i) Independent.--The term `independent' has the 
            meaning given the term in section 480(d) of the Higher 
            Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(d)).
                ``(ii) Total income.--The term `total income' has the 
            meaning given the term in section 480(a) of the Higher 
            Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(a)).

``SEC. 194. OFFICERS.

    ``(a) Managing Directors.--
        ``(1) In general.--There shall be in the Corporation 2 Managing 
    Directors, who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the 
    advice and consent of the Senate, and who shall report to the Chief 
    Executive Officer.
        ``(2) Compensation.--The Managing Directors shall be compensated 
    at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
    section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
        ``(3) Duties.--The Corporation shall determine the programs for 
    which the Managing Directors shall have primary responsibility and 
    shall establish the divisions of the Corporation to be headed by the 
    Managing Directors.
    ``(b) Inspector General.--
        ``(1) Office.--There shall be in the Corporation an Office of 
    the Inspector General.
        ``(2) Appointment.--The Office shall be headed by an Inspector 
    General, appointed in accordance with the Inspector General Act of 
    1978.
        ``(3) Compensation.--The Inspector General shall be compensated 
    at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive Schedule under 
    section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(c) Chief Financial Officer.--
        ``(1) Office.--There shall be in the Corporation a Chief 
    Financial Officer, who shall be appointed by the President, by and 
    with the advice and consent of the Senate.
        ``(2) Compensation.--The Chief Financial Officer shall be 
    compensated at the rate provided for level IV of the Executive 
    Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
        ``(3) Duties.--The Chief Financial Officer shall--
            ``(A) report directly to the Chief Executive Officer 
        regarding financial management matters;
            ``(B) oversee all financial management activities relating 
        to the programs and operations of the Corporation;
            ``(C) develop and maintain an integrated accounting and 
        financial management system for the Corporation, including 
        financial reporting and internal controls;
            ``(D) develop and maintain any joint financial management 
        systems with the Department of Education necessary to carry out 
        the programs of the Corporation; and
            ``(E) direct, manage, and provide policy guidance and 
        oversight of the financial management personnel, activities, and 
        operations of the Corporation.
    ``(d) Assistant Directors for VISTA and National Senior Volunteer 
Corps.--
        ``(1) Appointment.--One of the Managing Directors appointed 
    under subsection (a) shall, in accordance with applicable provisions 
    of title 5, United States Code, appoint 4 Assistant Directors who 
    shall report directly to such Managing Director, of which--
            ``(A) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs 
        carried out under parts A and B of title I of the Domestic 
        Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (the Volunteers in Service to 
        America (VISTA) program) and other antipoverty programs under 
        title I of that Act;
            ``(B) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs 
        carried out under part A of title II of that Act (relating to 
        the Retired Senior Volunteer Program);
            ``(C) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs 
        carried out under part B of title II of that Act (relating to 
        the Foster Grandparent Program); and
            ``(D) 1 Assistant Director shall be responsible for programs 
        carried out under part C of title II of that Act (relating to 
        the Senior Companion Program).
        ``(2) Effective date for exercise of authority.--Each Assistant 
    Director appointed pursuant to paragraph (1) may exercise the 
    authority assigned to each such Director only after the effective 
    date of section 203(c)(2) of the National and Community Service 
    Trust Act of 1993.
``SEC. 195. EMPLOYEES, CONSULTANTS, AND OTHER PERSONNEL.
    ``(a) Employees.--Except as provided in subsection (b), section 
194(d), and section 8E of the Inspector General Act of 1978, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall, in accordance with applicable provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, appoint and determine the compensation of 
such employees as the Chief Executive Officer determines to be necessary 
to carry out the duties of the Corporation.
    ``(b) Alternative Personnel System.--
        ``(1) Authority.--The Chief Executive Officer may designate 
    positions in the Corporation as positions to which the Chief 
    Executive Officer may make appointments, and for which the Chief 
    Executive Officer may determine compensation, without regard to the 
    provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in 
    the competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of 
    chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating 
    to classification and General Schedule pay rates, to the extent the 
    Chief Executive Officer determines that such a designation is 
    appropriate and desirable to further the effective operation of the 
    Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer may provide for 
    appointments to such positions to be made on a limited term basis.
        ``(2) Appointment in the competitive service after employment 
    under alternative personnel system.--The Director of the Office of 
    Personnel Management may grant competitive status for appointment to 
    the competitive service, under such conditions as the Director may 
    prescribe, to an employee who is appointed under this subsection and 
    who is separated from the Corporation (other than by removal for 
    cause).
        ``(3) Selection and compensation system.--
            ``(A) Establishment of system.--The Chief Executive Officer, 
        after obtaining the approval of the Director of the Office of 
        Personnel Management, shall issue regulations establishing a 
        selection and compensation system for employees of the 
        Corporation appointed under paragraph (1). In issuing such 
        regulations, the Chief Executive Officer shall take into 
        consideration the need for flexibility in such a system.
            ``(B) Application.--The Chief Executive Officer shall 
        appoint and determine the compensation of employees in 
        accordance with the selection and compensation system 
        established under subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Selection.--The system established under subparagraph 
        (A) shall provide for the selection of employees--
                ``(i) through a competitive process; and
                ``(ii) on the basis of the qualifications of applicants 
            and the requirements of the positions.
            ``(D) Compensation.--The system established under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include a scheme for the classification 
        of positions in the Corporation. The system shall require that 
        the compensation of an employee be determined in part on the 
        basis of the job performance of the employee, and in a manner 
        consistent with the principles described in section 5301 of 
        title 5, United States Code. The rate of compensation for each 
        employee compensated under the system shall not exceed the 
        annual rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive 
        Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(c) Corporation Representative in Each State.--
        ``(1) Designation of representative.--The Corporation shall 
    designate 1 employee of the Corporation for each State or group of 
    States to serve as the representative of the Corporation in the 
    State or States and to assist the Corporation in carrying out the 
    activities described in this Act in the State or States.
        ``(2) Duties.--The representative designated under this 
    subsection for a State or group of States shall serve as the liaison 
    between--
            ``(A) the Corporation and the State Commission that is 
        established in the State or States;
            ``(B) the Corporation and any subdivision of a State, Indian 
        tribe, public or private nonprofit organization, or institution 
        of higher education, in the State or States, that is awarded a 
        grant under section 121 directly from the Corporation; and
            ``(C) after the effective date of section 203(c)(2) of the 
        National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, the State 
        Commission and the Corporation employee responsible for programs 
        under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 in the State, 
        if the employee is not the representative described in paragraph 
        (1) for the State.
        ``(3) Member of state commission.--The representative designated 
    under this subsection for a State or group of States shall also 
    serve as a member of the State Commission established in the State 
    or States, as described in section 178(c)(3).
        ``(4) Compensation.--If the employee designated under paragraph 
    (1) is an employee whose appointment was made pursuant to section 
    195(b), the rate of compensation for such employee may not exceed 
    the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-13 of the General 
    Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(d) Consultants.--The Chief Executive Officer may procure the 
temporary and intermittent services of experts and consultants and 
compensate the experts and consultants in accordance with section 
3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(e) Details of Personnel.--The head of any Federal department or 
agency may detail on a reimbursable basis, or on a nonreimbursable basis 
for not to exceed 180 calendar days during any fiscal year, as agreed 
upon by the Chief Executive Officer and the head of the Federal agency, 
any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Corporation to 
assist the Corporation in carrying out the duties of the Corporation 
under this Act. Any detail shall not interrupt or otherwise affect the 
civil service status or privileges of the Federal employee.
    ``(f) Advisory Committees.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--The Chief Executive Officer, acting upon 
    the recommendation of the Board, may establish advisory committees 
    in the Corporation to advise the Board with respect to national 
    service issues, such as the type of programs to be established or 
    assisted under the national service laws, priorities and criteria 
    for such programs, and methods of conducting outreach for, and 
    evaluation of, such programs.
        ``(2) Composition.--Such an advisory committee shall be composed 
    of members appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, with such 
    qualifications as the Chief Executive Officer may specify.
        ``(3) Expenses.--Members of such an advisory committee may be 
    allowed travel expenses as described in section 192A(d).
        ``(4) Staff.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to appoint and fix the 
        compensation of such staff as the Chief Executive Officer 
        determines to be necessary to carry out the functions of the 
        advisory committee, without regard to--
                ``(i) the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
            governing appointments in the competitive service; and
                ``(ii) the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III 
            of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and 
            General Schedule pay rates.
            ``(B) Compensation.--If a member of the staff appointed 
        under subparagraph (A) was appointed without regard to the 
        provisions described in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph 
        (A), the rate of compensation for such member may not exceed the 
        maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-13 of the General 
        Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code.

``SEC. 196. ADMINISTRATION.

    ``(a) Donations.--
        ``(1) Services.--
            ``(A) Volunteers.--Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, 
        United States Code, the Corporation may solicit and accept the 
        voluntary services of individuals to assist the Corporation in 
        carrying out the duties of the Corporation under this Act, and 
        may provide to such individuals the travel expenses described in 
        section 192A(d).
            ``(B) Limitation.--Such a volunteer shall not be considered 
        to be a Federal employee and shall not be subject to the 
        provisions of law relating to Federal employment, including 
        those relating to hours of work, rates of compensation, leave, 
        unemployment compensation, and Federal employee benefits, except 
        that--
                ``(i) for the purposes of the tort claims provisions of 
            chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, a volunteer 
            under this subtitle shall be considered to be a Federal 
            employee;
                ``(ii) for the purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of 
            title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation to 
            Federal employees for work injuries, volunteers under this 
            subtitle shall be considered to be employees, as defined in 
            section 8101(1)(B) of title 5, United States Code, and the 
            provisions of such subchapter shall apply; and
                ``(iii) for purposes of the provisions of chapter 11 of 
            part I of title 18, United States Code, such a volunteer (to 
            whom such provisions would not otherwise apply except for 
            this subsection) shall be a special Government employee.
            ``(C) Inherently governmental function.--
                ``(i) In general.--Such a volunteer shall not carry out 
            an inherently governmental function.
                ``(ii) Regulations.--The Chief Executive Officer shall 
            promulgate regulations to carry out this subparagraph.
                ``(iii) Inherently governmental function.--As used in 
            this subparagraph, the term `inherently governmental 
            function' means any activity that is so intimately related 
            to the public interest as to mandate performance by an 
            officer or employee of the Federal Government, including an 
            activity that requires either the exercise of discretion in 
            applying the authority of the Government or the use of value 
            judgment in making a decision for the Government.
        ``(2) Property.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Corporation may solicit, accept, 
        hold, administer, use, and dispose of, in furtherance of the 
        purposes of this Act, donations of any money or property, real, 
        personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, 
        devise, bequest, or otherwise. Donations accepted under this 
        subparagraph shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance 
        with the terms, if any, of such donation.
            ``(B) Status of contribution.--Any donation accepted under 
        subparagraph (A) shall be considered to be a gift, devise, or 
        bequest to, or for the use of, the United States.
            ``(C) Rules.--The Chief Executive Officer shall establish 
        written rules to ensure that the solicitation, acceptance, 
        holding, administration, and use of property described in 
        subparagraph (A)--
                ``(i) will not reflect unfavorably upon the ability of 
            the Corporation, or of any officer or employee of the 
            Corporation, to carry out the responsibilities or official 
            duties of the Corporation in a fair and objective manner; 
            and
                ``(ii) will not compromise the integrity of the programs 
            of the Corporation or any official or employee of the 
            Corporation involved in such programs.
            ``(D) Disposition.--Upon completion of the use by the 
        Corporation of any property accepted pursuant to subparagraph 
        (A) (other than money or monetary proceeds from sales of 
        property so accepted), such completion shall be reported to the 
        General Services Administration and such property shall be 
        disposed of in accordance with title II of the Federal Property 
        and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 481 et seq.).
        ``(3) Volunteer.--As used in this subsection, the term 
    `volunteer' does not include a participant.
    ``(b) Contracts.--Subject to the Federal Property and Administrative 
Services Act of 1949, the Corporation may enter into contracts, and 
cooperative and interagency agreements, with Federal and State agencies, 
private firms, institutions, and individuals to conduct activities 
necessary to assist the Corporation in carrying out the duties of the 
Corporation under this Act.
    ``(c) Office of Management and Budget.--Appropriate circulars of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall apply to the Corporation.

``SEC. 196A. CORPORATION STATE OFFICES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Chief Executive Officer shall establish and 
maintain a decentralized field structure that provides for an office of 
the Corporation for each State. The office for a State shall be located 
in, or in reasonable proximity to, such State. Only one such office may 
carry out the duties described in subsection (b) with respect to a State 
at any particular time. Such State office may be directed by the 
representative designated under section 195(c).
    ``(b) Duties.--Each State office established pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall--
        ``(1) provide to the State Commissions established under section 
    178 technical and other assistance for the development and 
    implementation of national service plans under section 178(e)(1);
        ``(2) provide to community-based agencies and other entities 
    within the State technical assistance for the preparation of 
    applications for assistance under the national service laws, 
    utilizing, as appropriate, information and materials provided by the 
    clearinghouses established pursuant to section 198A;
        ``(3) provide to the State Commission and other entities within 
    the State support and technical assistance necessary to assure the 
    existence of an effective system of recruitment, placement, and 
    training of volunteers within the State;
        ``(4) monitor and evaluate the performance of all programs and 
    projects within the State that receive assistance under the national 
    service laws; and
        ``(5) perform such other duties and functions as may be assigned 
    or delegated by the Chief Executive Officer.''.
    (b) Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973.--Section 401 of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5041) is amended by 
inserting after the second sentence the following: ``The Director shall 
report directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
National and Community Service.''.
    (c) Transfer of Functions of Commission on National and Community 
Service.--
        (1) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, unless 
    otherwise provided or indicated by the context, each term specified 
    in section 203(c)(1) shall have the meaning given the term in such 
    section.
        (2) Transfer of functions.--There are transferred to the 
    Corporation the functions that the Board of Directors or Executive 
    Director of the Commission on National and Community Service 
    exercised before the effective date of this subsection (including 
    all related functions of any officer or employee of the Commission).
        (3) Application.--The provisions of paragraphs (3) through (10) 
    of section 203(c) shall apply with respect to the transfer described 
    in paragraph (2), except that--
            (A) for purposes of such application, references to the term 
        ``ACTION Agency'' shall be deemed to be references to the 
        Commission on National and Community Service; and
            (B) paragraph (10) of such section shall not preclude the 
        transfer of the members of the Board of Directors of the 
        Commission to the Corporation if, on the effective date of this 
        subsection, the Board of Directors of the Corporation has not 
        been confirmed.
    (d) Continuing Performance of Certain Functions.--The individuals 
who, on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, are performing 
any of the functions required by section 190 of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12651), as in effect on such 
date, to be performed by the members of the Board of Directors of the 
Commission on National and Community Service may, subject to section 
193A of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as added by 
subsection (a) of this section, continue to perform such functions until 
the date on which the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National 
and Community Service conducts the first meeting of the Board. The 
service of such individuals as members of the Board of Directors of such 
Commission, and the employment of such individuals as special Government 
employees, shall terminate on such date.
    (e) Government Corporation Control.--
        (1) Wholly owned government corporation.--Section 9101(3) of 
    title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
    subparagraph (D) the following:
            ``(E) the Corporation for National and Community Service.''.
        (2) Audits.--Section 9105(a)(1) of title 31, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting ``, or under other Federal law,'' before 
    ``or by an independent''.
    (f) Disposal of Property.--Section 203(k) of the Federal Property 
and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484(k)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) Under such regulations as the Administrator may prescribe, 
the Administrator is authorized, in the discretion of the Administrator, 
to assign to the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National 
and Community Service for disposal such surplus property as is 
recommended by the Chief Executive Officer as being needed for national 
service activities.
    ``(B) Subject to the disapproval of the Administrator, within 30 
days after notice to the Administrator by the Chief Executive Officer of 
the Corporation for National and Community Service of a proposed 
transfer of property for such activities, the Chief Executive Officer, 
through such officers or employees of the Corporation as the Chief 
Executive Officer may designate, may sell, lease, or donate such 
property to any entity that receives financial assistance under the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990 for such activities.
    ``(C) In fixing the sale or lease value of such property, the Chief 
Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service 
shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (1)(C).''.
    (g) Inspector General.--
        (1) Special provisions in inspector general act of 1978.--The 
    Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by 
    redesignating sections 8E and 8F as sections 8F and 8G, 
    respectively, and inserting after section 8D the following new 
    section:


     ``SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND 
                            COMMUNITY SERVICE

    ``Sec. 8E. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (7) and 
(8) of section 6(a), it is within the exclusive jurisdiction of the 
Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service 
to--
        ``(1) appoint and determine the compensation of such officers 
    and employees in accordance with section 195(b) of the National and 
    Community Service Trust Act of 1993; and
        ``(2) procure the temporary and intermittent services of and 
    compensate such experts and consultants, in accordance with section 
    3109(b) of title 5, United States Code,
as may be necessary to carry out the functions, powers, and duties of 
the Inspector General.
    ``(b) No later than the date on which the Chief Executive Officer of 
the Corporation for National and Community Service transmits any report 
to the Congress under subsection (a) or (b) of section 5, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall transmit such report to the Board of Directors 
of such Corporation.
    ``(c) No later than the date on which the Chief Executive Officer of 
the Corporation for National and Community Service transmits a report 
described under section 5(b) to the Board of Directors as provided under 
subsection (b) of this section, the Chief Executive Officer shall also 
transmit any audit report which is described in the statement required 
under section 5(b)(4) to the Board of Directors. All such audit reports 
shall be placed on the agenda for review at the next scheduled meeting 
of the Board of Directors following such transmittal. The Chief 
Executive Officer of the Corporation shall be present at such meeting to 
provide any information relating to such audit reports.
    ``(d) No later than the date on which the Inspector General of the 
Corporation for National and Community Service reports a problem, abuse, 
or deficiency under section 5(d) to the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Corporation, the Chief Executive Officer shall report such problem, 
abuse, or deficiency to the Board of Directors.''.
        (2) Termination of status as designated federal entity.--
            (A) In general.--Section 8F(a)(2) of the Inspector General 
        Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection) is amended by striking out ``ACTION,''.
            (B) Effective date.--This paragraph shall take effect on the 
        effective date of section 203(c)(2).
        (3) Transfer.--
            (A) In general.--Section 9(a)(1) of the Inspector General 
        Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
                (i) in subparagraph (T), by striking out ``and'' at the 
            end thereof; and
                (ii) by adding at the end thereof the following new 
            subparagraph:
            ``(V) of the Corporation for National and Community Service, 
        the Office of Inspector General of ACTION; and''.
            (B) Effective date.--This paragraph shall take effect on the 
        effective date of section 203(c)(2).
        (4) Head of establishment and establishment.--Section 11 of the 
    Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1) by inserting ``; the Chief Executive 
        Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service;'' 
        after ``Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2) by inserting ``, the Corporation for 
        National and Community Service,'' after ``United States 
        Information Agency''.
        (5) Technical and conforming amendments to the inspector general 
    act of 1978.--The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is 
    amended--
            (A) in section 4(b)(2)--
                (i) by striking out ``section 8E(a)(2), and any'' and 
            inserting in lieu thereof ``section 8F(a)(2), and any'';
                (ii) by striking out ``section 8E(a)(1)'' and inserting 
            in lieu thereof ``section 8F(a)(1)''; and
                (iii) by striking out ``section 8E(a)(2).'' and 
            inserting in lieu thereof ``section 8F(a)(2).''; and
            (B) in section 8G (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this 
        subsection)--
                (i) by striking out ``or 8D'' and inserting in lieu 
            thereof ``8D, or 8E''; and
                (ii) by striking out ``section 8E(a)'' and inserting in 
            lieu thereof ``section 8F(a)''.
        (6) Postal service technical and conforming amendments.--Section 
    410(b) of title 39, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (8) by striking out ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) in the first paragraph (9) by striking out the period 
        and inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon and ``and''; and
            (C) by striking out the second paragraph (9) and inserting 
        in lieu thereof the following:
        ``(10) the provisions of section 8F of the Inspector General Act 
    of 1978.''.
    (h) Table of Contents.--Section 1(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-610; 104 Stat. 3127) is amended by 
striking the items relating to subtitle G of title I of such Act and 
inserting the following:

      ``Subtitle G--Corporation for National and Community Service

``Sec. 191. Corporation for National and Community Service.
``Sec. 192. Board of Directors.
``Sec. 192A. Authorities and duties of the Board of Directors.
``Sec. 193. Chief Executive Officer.
``Sec. 193A. Authorities and duties of the Chief Executive Officer. 
``Sec. 194. Officers.
``Sec. 195. Employees, consultants, and other personnel.
``Sec. 196. Administration.
``Sec. 196A. Corporation State offices.''.

    (i) Effective Dates.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), or 
    paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (g), the amendments made by this 
    section shall take effect on October 1, 1993.
        (2) Establishment and appointment authorities.--Sections 191, 
    192, and 193 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990, as 
    added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date of enactment 
    of this Act.
    SEC. 203. FINAL AUTHORITIES OF THE CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND 
      COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    (a) National and Community Service Act of 1990.--
        (1) Application.--
            (A) Evaluation.--Subsections (a), (d), and (e) of section 
        179 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
        12639) are amended by striking ``this title'' and inserting 
        ``the national service laws''.
            (B) Corporation.--Subtitle I of the National and Community 
        Service Act of 1990 (as amended by section 202 of this Act) is 
        amended in section 191, paragraphs (5) and (10) of section 
        192A(g), section 193(c), subsections (b) (other than paragraph 
        (10)), (c) (other than paragraph (7)), and (d) of section 193A, 
        subsections (c) and (e) of section 195, and subsections (a) and 
        (b) of section 196, by striking ``this Act'' each place the term 
        appears and inserting ``the national service laws''.
        (2) Grants.--Section 192A(g) of the National and Community 
    Service Act of 1990 (as added by section 202 of this Act) is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (9);
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11); and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
        ``(10) notwithstanding any other provision of law, make grants 
    to or contracts with Federal or other public departments or agencies 
    and private nonprofit organizations for the assignment or referral 
    of volunteers under the provisions of the Domestic Volunteer Service 
    Act of 1973 (except as provided in section 108 of the Domestic 
    Volunteer Service Act of 1973), which may provide that the agency or 
    organization shall pay all or a part of the costs of the program; 
    and''.
        (3) Recruitment and public awareness functions.--Section 193A of 
    the National and Community Service Act of 1993 (as added by section 
    202 of this Act) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Recruitment and Public Awareness Functions.--
        ``(1) Effort.--The Chief Executive Officer shall ensure that the 
    Corporation, in carrying out the recruiting and public awareness 
    functions of the Corporation, shall expend at least the level of 
    effort on recruitment and public awareness activities related to the 
    programs carried out under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
    1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.) as ACTION expended on recruitment and 
    public awareness activities related to programs under the Domestic 
    Volunteer Service Act of 1973 during fiscal year 1993.
        ``(2) Personnel.--The Chief Executive Officer shall assign or 
    hire, as necessary, such additional national, regional, and State 
    personnel to carry out such recruiting and public awareness 
    functions as may be necessary to ensure that such functions are 
    carried out in a timely and effective manner. The Chief Executive 
    Officer shall give priority in the hiring of such additional 
    personnel to individuals who have formerly served as volunteers in 
    the programs carried out under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
    1973 or similar programs, and to individuals who have specialized 
    experience in the recruitment of volunteers.
        ``(3) Funds.--For the first fiscal year after the effective date 
    of this subsection, and for each fiscal year thereafter, for the 
    purpose of carrying out such recruiting and public awareness 
    functions, the Chief Executive Officer shall obligate not less than 
    1.5 percent of the amounts appropriated for the fiscal year under 
    section 501(a) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973.''.
    (b) Authorities of ACTION Agency.--Sections 401 and 402 of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 5041 and 5042) are 
repealed.
    (c) Transfer of Functions From ACTION Agency.--
        (1) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, unless 
    otherwise provided or indicated by the context--
            (A) the term ``Chief Executive Officer'' means the Chief 
        Executive Officer of the Corporation;
            (B) the term ``Corporation'' means the Corporation for 
        National and Community Service, established under section 191 of 
        the National and Community Service Act of 1990;
            (C) the term ``Federal agency'' has the meaning given to the 
        term ``agency'' by section 551(1) of title 5, United States 
        Code;
            (D) the term ``function'' means any duty, obligation, power, 
        authority, responsibility, right, privilege, activity, or 
        program; and
            (E) the term ``office'' includes any office, administration, 
        agency, institute, unit, organizational entity, or component 
        thereof.
        (2) Transfer of functions.--There are transferred to the 
    Corporation the functions that the Director of the ACTION Agency 
    exercised before the effective date of this subsection (including 
    all related functions of any officer or employee of the ACTION 
    Agency).
        (3) Determinations of certain functions by the office of 
    management and budget.--If necessary, the Office of Management and 
    Budget shall make any determination of the functions that are 
    transferred under paragraph (2).
        (4) Reorganization.--The Chief Executive Officer is authorized 
    to allocate or reallocate any function transferred under paragraph 
    (2) among the officers of the Corporation.
        (5) Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel.--
    Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the personnel 
    employed in connection with, and the assets, liabilities, contracts, 
    property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, 
    authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, 
    arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection 
    with the functions transferred by this subsection, subject to 
    section 1531 of title 31, United States Code, shall be transferred 
    to the Corporation. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to this 
    paragraph shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds 
    were originally authorized and appropriated.
        (6) Incidental transfer.--The Director of the Office of 
    Management and Budget, at such time or times as the Director shall 
    provide, is authorized to make such determinations as may be 
    necessary with regard to the functions transferred by this 
    subsection, and to make such additional incidental dispositions of 
    personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts, property, 
    records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations, 
    allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, 
    or to be made available in connection with such functions, as may be 
    necessary to carry out the provisions of this subsection. The 
    Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide for 
    the termination of the affairs of all entities terminated by this 
    subsection and for such further measures and dispositions as may be 
    necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subsection.
        (7) Effect on personnel.--
            (A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided by this 
        subsection, the transfer pursuant to this subsection of full-
        time personnel (except special Government employees) and part-
        time personnel holding permanent positions shall be to positions 
        in the Corporation subject to section 195(a) of the National and 
        Community Service Act of 1990, as added by section 202(a) of 
        this Act, and shall not cause any such employee to be separated 
        or reduced in grade or compensation, or to have the benefits of 
        the employee reduced, for 1 year after the date of transfer of 
        such employee under this subsection, and such transfer shall be 
        deemed to be a transfer of functions for purposes of section 
        3503 of title 5, United States Code.
            (B) Executive schedule positions.--Except as otherwise 
        provided in this subsection, any person who, on the day 
        preceding the effective date of this subsection, held a position 
        compensated in accordance with the Executive Schedule prescribed 
        in chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, and who, without a 
        break in service, is appointed in the Corporation to a position 
        having duties comparable to the duties performed immediately 
        preceding such appointment shall continue to be compensated in 
        such new position at not less than the rate provided for such 
        previous position, for the duration of the service of such 
        person in such new position.
            (C) Termination of certain positions.--Positions whose 
        incumbents are appointed by the President, by and with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate, the functions of which are 
        transferred by this subsection, shall terminate on the effective 
        date of this subsection.
        (8) Savings provisions.--
            (A) Continuing effect of legal documents.--All orders, 
        determinations, rules, regulations, permits, agreements, grants, 
        contracts, certificates, licenses, registrations, privileges, 
        and other administrative actions--
                (i) that have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to 
            become effective by the President, any Federal agency or 
            official thereof, or by a court of competent jurisdiction, 
            in the performance of functions that are transferred under 
            this subsection; and
                (ii) that are in effect at the time this subsection 
            takes effect, or were final before the effective date of 
            this subsection and are to become effective on or after the 
            effective date of this subsection,
        shall continue in effect according to their terms until 
        modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in 
        accordance with law by the President, the Chief Executive 
        Officer, or other authorized official, a court of competent 
        jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
            (B) Proceedings not affected.--The provisions of this 
        subsection shall not affect any proceedings, including notices 
        of proposed rulemaking, or any application for any license, 
        permit, certificate, or financial assistance pending before the 
        ACTION Agency at the time this subsection takes effect, with 
        respect to functions transferred by this subsection. Such 
        proceedings and applications shall be continued. Orders shall be 
        issued in such proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, 
        and payments shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this 
        subsection had not been enacted, and orders issued in any such 
        proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, 
        superseded, or revoked by a duly authorized official, by a court 
        of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law. Nothing in 
        this subparagraph shall be deemed to prohibit the discontinuance 
        or modification of any such proceeding under the same terms and 
        conditions and to the same extent that such proceeding could 
        have been discontinued or modified if this subsection had not 
        been enacted.
            (C) Suits not affected.--The provisions of this subsection 
        shall not affect suits commenced before the effective date of 
        this subsection, and in all such suits, proceedings shall be 
        had, appeals taken, and judgments rendered in the same manner 
        and with the same effect as if this subsection had not been 
        enacted.
            (D) Nonabatement of actions.--No suit, action, or other 
        proceeding commenced by or against the ACTION Agency, or by or 
        against any individual in the official capacity of such 
        individual as an officer of the ACTION Agency, shall abate by 
        reason of the enactment of this subsection.
            (E) Administrative actions relating to promulgation of 
        regulations.--Any administrative action relating to the 
        preparation or promulgation of a regulation by the ACTION Agency 
        relating to a function transferred under this subsection may be 
        continued by the Corporation with the same effect as if this 
        subsection had not been enacted.
        (9) Severability.--If a provision of this subsection or its 
    application to any person or circumstance is held invalid, neither 
    the remainder of this subsection nor the application of the 
    provision to other persons or circumstances shall be affected.
        (10) Transition.--Prior to, or after, any transfer of a function 
    under this subsection, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized to 
    utilize--
            (A) the services of such officers, employees, and other 
        personnel of the ACTION Agency with respect to functions that 
        will be or have been transferred to the Corporation by this 
        subsection; and
            (B) funds appropriated to such functions for such period of 
        time as may reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly 
        implementation of this subsection.
    (d) Effective Date.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), this 
    section, and the amendments made by this section, shall take 
    effect--
            (A) 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act; or
            (B) on such earlier date as the President shall determine to 
        be appropriate and announce by proclamation published in the 
        Federal Register.
        (2) Transition.--Subsection (c)(10) shall take effect on the 
    date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 204. BUSINESS PLAN.

    (a) Business Plan Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Corporation for National and Community 
    Service (referred to in this section as the ``Corporation'') shall 
    prepare and submit to Congress a business plan. The Corporation may 
    not provide assistance under section 121 of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990 before the twentieth day of continuous 
    session of Congress after the date on which the Corporation submits 
    the business plan to Congress.
        (2) Computation.--For purposes of the computation of the 20-day 
    period referred to in paragraph (1), continuity of a session of the 
    Congress shall be considered to be broken only by--
            (A) an adjournment of the Congress sine die; and
            (B) the days on which either House is not in session because 
        of an adjournment of more than 3 days to a date certain.
    (b) Required Elements of Business Plan.--
        (1) Allocation of funds.--The business plan shall contain--
            (A) a description of the manner in which the Corporation 
        will allocate funds for programs carried out by the Corporation 
        after October 1, 1993;
            (B) information on the principal offices and officers of the 
        Corporation that will allocate such funds; and
            (C) information that indicates how accountability for such 
        funds can be determined, in terms of the office or officer 
        responsible for such funds.
        (2) Investigative and audit functions.--The business plan shall 
    include a description of the plans of the Corporation--
            (A) to ensure continuity, during the transition period, and 
        after the transition period, in the investigative and audit 
        functions carried out by the Inspector General of ACTION prior 
        to such period, consistent with the Inspector General Act of 
        1978 (5 U.S.C. App.); and
            (B) to carry out investigative and audit functions and 
        implement financial management controls regarding programs 
        carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 1993, consistent 
        with the Inspector General Act of 1978, including a specific 
        description of--
                (i) the manner in which the Office of Inspector General 
            shall be established in the Corporation, in accordance with 
            section 194(b) of the National Community Service Act of 
            1990, as added by section 202 of this Act; and
                (ii) the manner in which grants made by the Corporation 
            shall be audited by such Office and the financial management 
            controls that shall apply with regard to such grants and 
            programs.
        (3) Accountability measures.--The business plan shall include a 
    detailed description of the accountability measures to be 
    established by the Corporation to ensure effective control of all 
    funds for programs carried out by the Corporation after October 1, 
    1993.
        (4) Information resources.--The business plan shall include a 
    description of an information resource management program that will 
    support the program and financial management needs of the 
    Corporation.
        (5) Corporation staffing and integration of action.--
            (A) Transfers.--The business plan shall include a report on 
        the progress and plans of the President for transferring the 
        functions, programs, and related personnel of ACTION to the 
        Corporation, and shall include a timetable for the transfer.
            (B) Details and assignments.--The report shall specify the 
        number of ACTION employees detailed or assigned to the 
        Corporation, and describe the hiring activity of the 
        Corporation, during the transition period.
            (C) Structure.--The business plan shall include a 
        description of the organizational structure of the Corporation 
        during the transition period.
            (D) Staffing.--The business plan shall include a description 
        of--
                (i) measures to ensure adequate staffing during the 
            transition period with respect to programs carried out by 
            the Corporation after October 1, 1993; and
                (ii) the responsibilities and authorities of the 
            Managing Directors and other key personnel of the 
            Corporation.
            (E) Senior executive service.--The business plan shall 
        include--
                (i) an explanation of the number of the employees of the 
            Corporation who will be paid at or above the rate of pay for 
            level 1 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule under 
            section 5382 of title 5, United States Code; and
                (ii) information justifying such pay for such employees.
        (6) Duplication of functions.--The business plan shall include a 
    description of the measures that the Corporation is taking or will 
    take to minimize duplication of functions in the Corporation caused 
    by the transfer of the functions of the Commission on National and 
    Community Service, and the transfer of the functions of ACTION, to 
    the Corporation. This description shall address functions at both 
    the national and State levels.
    (c) Definition.--The term ``transition period'' means the period 
beginning on October 1, 1993 and ending on the day before the effective 
date of section 203(c)(2).
    SEC. 205. ACTIONS UNDER THE NATIONAL SERVICE LAWS TO BE SUBJECT TO 
      THE AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    No action involving the obligation or expenditure of funds may be 
taken under one of the national service laws (as defined in section 
101(15) of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
12511(15))) unless and until the Corporation for National and Community 
Service has sufficient appropriations available at the time such action 
is taken to satisfy the obligation to be incurred or make the 
expenditure to be made.
                       TITLE III--REAUTHORIZATION
         Subtitle A--National and Community Service Act of 1990

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 501 of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12681) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 501. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``(a) Title I.--
        ``(1) Subtitle b.--
            ``(A) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        to provide financial assistance under subtitle B of title I, 
        $45,000,000 for fiscal year 1994 and such sums as may be 
        necessary for each of the fiscal years 1995 through 1996.
            ``(B) Programs.--Of the amount appropriated under 
        subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year--
                ``(i) not more than 63.75 percent shall be available to 
            provide financial assistance under subpart A of part I of 
            subtitle B of title I;
                ``(ii) not more than 11.25 percent shall be available to 
            provide financial assistance under subpart B of part I of 
            such subtitle; and
                ``(iii) not more than 25 percent shall be available to 
            provide financial assistance under part II of such subtitle.
        ``(2) Subtitles c, d, and h.--
            ``(A) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        to provide financial assistance under subtitles C and H of title 
        I, to provide national service educational awards under subtitle 
        D of title I, and to carry out such audits and evaluations as 
        the Chief Executive Officer or the Inspector General of the 
        Corporation may determine to be necessary, $300,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 1994, $500,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and 
        $700,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
            ``(B) Programs.--Of the amount appropriated under 
        subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year, up to 15 percent shall be 
        made available to provide financial assistance under section 
        125, under subsections (b) and (c) of section 126, and under 
        subtitle H of title I.
        ``(3) Subtitle e.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
    provide financial assistance under subtitle E of title I, such sums 
    as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1995 through 1996.
        ``(4) Administration.--
            ``(A) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        for the administration of this Act $40,000,000 for fiscal year 
        1994, $60,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and $70,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 1996.
            ``(B) Corporation.--Of the amounts appropriated under 
        subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year--
                ``(i) up to 60 percent shall be made available to the 
            Corporation for the administration of this Act; and
                ``(ii) the remainder shall be available to provide 
            financial assistance under section 126(a).
    ``(b) Title III.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out title III $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.
    ``(c) Availability of Appropriations.--Funds appropriated under this 
section shall remain available until expended.
    ``(d) Specification of Budget Function.--The authorizations of 
appropriations contained in this section shall be considered to be a 
component of budget function 500 as used by the Office of Management and 
Budget to cover education, training, employment, and social services, 
and, as such, shall be considered to be related to the programs of the 
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education for 
budgetary purposes.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect on October 1, 1993.
           Subtitle B--Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973

SEC. 311. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES.

    (a) Short Title.--This subtitle may be cited as the ``Domestic 
Volunteer Service Act Amendments of 1993''.
    (b) References.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever 
in this subtitle an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an 
amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference 
shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.).

            CHAPTER 1--VISTA AND OTHER ANTI-POVERTY PROGRAMS

SEC. 321. PURPOSE OF THE VISTA PROGRAM.

    The last sentence of section 101 (42 U.S.C. 4951) is amended to read 
as follows: ``In addition, the objectives of this part are to generate 
the commitment of private sector resources, to encourage volunteer 
service at the local level, and to strengthen local agencies and 
organizations to carry out the purpose of this part.''.
    SEC. 322. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR FOR VISTA PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Section 102 (42 U.S.C. 4952) is amended by striking 
``The Director'' and inserting ``This part shall be administered by one 
of the Assistant Directors appointed pursuant to section 194(d)(1)(A) of 
the National and Community Service Act of 1990. Such Director''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the effective date of section 203(b).
    SEC. 323. SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF VISTA VOLUNTEERS.
    (a) Volunteer Assignments.--Section 103(a) (42 U.S.C. 4953(a)) is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``a 
    public'' and inserting ``public'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``illiterate or functionally 
    illiterate youth and other individuals,'';
        (4) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (5) in paragraph (6)--
            (A) by striking ``or the Community Economic'' and inserting 
        ``the Community Economic'';
            (B) by inserting ``or other similar Acts,'' after ``1981,''; 
        and
            (C) by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and
        (6) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(7) in strengthening, supplementing, and expanding efforts to 
    address the problem of illiteracy throughout the United States.''.
    (b) Recruitment Procedures.--Section 103(b) (42 U.S.C. 4953(b)) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) The Director shall establish and maintain within the 
national headquarters of the ACTION Agency (or any successor entity of 
such agency) a volunteer placement office which shall be responsible for 
all functions related to the recruitment and placement of volunteers 
under this part. Such functions and activities shall be carried out in 
coordination or in conjunction with recruitment and placement activities 
carried out under the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993. 
Upon the transfer of the functions of the ACTION Agency to the 
Corporation for National and Community Service, the office established 
under this subparagraph shall be merged with the recruitment office of 
such Corporation. At no time after such transfer of functions shall more 
than one office responsible primarily for recruitment exist within the 
Corporation.'';
            (B) by striking subparagraph (C); and
            (C) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (C);
        (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (6); and
        (3) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (7) as paragraphs (4) 
    and (6), respectively.
    (c) Public Awareness and Recruitment.--Subsection (c) of section 103 
(42 U.S.C. 4953(c)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the 1st sentence by striking ``regional or State 
        employees designated in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of subsection 
        (b)(2)'' and inserting ``personnel described in subsection 
        (b)(2)(C)'';
            (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``shall include'' 
        and inserting ``may include'';
            (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as 
        subparagraphs (G) and (H), respectively; and
            (D) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(F) publicizing national service educational awards 
        available under the National and Community Service Trust Act of 
        1993;'';
        (2) by striking paragraphs (4) and (5); and
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (4).
    (d) Coordination With Other Federal Agencies.--Section 103 (42 
U.S.C. 4953) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(h) The Director is encouraged to enter into agreements with other 
Federal agencies to use VISTA volunteers in furtherance of program 
objectives that are consistent with the purposes described in section 
101.''.

SEC. 324. TERMS AND PERIODS OF SERVICE.

    (a) Clarification and Periods of Service.--Subsection (b) of section 
104 (42 U.S.C. 4954(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b)(1) Volunteers serving under this part may be enrolled 
initially for periods of service of not less than 1 year, nor more than 
2 years, except as provided in paragraph (2) or subsection (e).
    ``(2) Volunteers serving under this part may be enrolled for periods 
of service of less than 1 year if the Director determines, on an 
individual basis, that a period of service of less than 1 year is 
necessary to meet a critical scarce skill need.
    ``(3) Volunteers serving under this part may be reenrolled for 
periods of service in a manner to be determined by the Director. No 
volunteer shall serve for more than a total of 5 years under this 
part.''.
    (b) Summer Program.--Section 104 (42 U.S.C. 4954) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the 
Director may enroll full-time VISTA summer associates in a program for 
the summer months only, under such terms and conditions as the Director 
shall determine to be appropriate. Such individuals shall be assigned to 
projects that meet the criteria set forth in section 103(a).
    ``(2) In preparing reports relating to programs under this Act, the 
Director shall report on participants, costs, and accomplishments under 
the summer program separately.
    ``(3) The limitation on funds appropriated for grants and contracts, 
as contained in section 108, shall not apply to the summer program.''.

SEC. 325. SUPPORT FOR VISTA VOLUNTEERS.

    (a) Postservice Stipend.--Section 105(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 4955(a)(1)) 
is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(a)(1)''; and
        (2) by striking the second sentence and inserting the following:
    ``(B) Such stipend shall not exceed $95 per month in fiscal year 
1994, but shall be set at a minimum of $100 per month, and a maximum of 
$125 per month assuming the availability of funds to accomplish such 
maximum, during the service of the volunteer after October 1, 1994. The 
Director may provide a stipend of a maximum of $200 per month in the 
case of persons who have served as volunteers under this part for at 
least 1 year and who, in accordance with standards established in such 
regulations as the Director shall prescribe, have been designated 
volunteer leaders on the basis of experience and special skills and a 
demonstrated leadership among volunteers.
    ``(C) The Director shall not provide a stipend under this subsection 
to an individual who elects to receive a national service educational 
award under subtitle D of title I of the National and Community Service 
Act of 1990.''.
    (b) Subsistence Allowance.--Section 105(b) (42 U.S.C. 4955(b)) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (A);
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the subparagraph 
        designation; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        Director shall review such adjustments on an annual basis to 
        ensure that the adjustments are current.''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (4).
    (c) Child Care.--Section 105 (42 U.S.C. 4955) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c)(1) The Director shall--
        ``(A) make child care available for children of each volunteer 
    enrolled under this part who need such child care in order to 
    participate as volunteers; or
        ``(B) provide a child care allowance to each such volunteer who 
    needs such assistance in order to participate as volunteers.
    ``(2) The Corporation shall establish guidelines regarding the 
circumstances under which child care shall be made available under this 
subsection and the value of any child care allowance to be provided.''.
    SEC. 326. PARTICIPATION OF YOUNGER AND OLDER PERSONS.
    Section 107 (42 U.S.C. 4957) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 107. PARTICIPATION OF YOUNGER AND OLDER PERSONS.
    ``In carrying out this part and part C, the Director shall take 
necessary steps, including the development of special projects, where 
appropriate, to encourage the fullest participation of individuals 18 
through 27 years of age, and individuals 55 years of age and older, in 
the various programs and activities authorized under such parts.''.

SEC. 327. LITERACY ACTIVITIES.

    Section 109 (42 U.S.C. 4959) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (1); and
            (B) by striking the paragraph designation of paragraph (2); 
        and
        (2) in subsection (h)--
            (A) in paragraph (1) by striking ``paragraphs (2) and (3)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (2)''; and
            (B) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 328. APPLICATIONS FOR ASSISTANCE.

    Section 110 (42 U.S.C. 4960) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 110. APPLICATIONS FOR ASSISTANCE.

    ``In reviewing an application for assistance under this part, the 
Director shall not deny such assistance to any project or program, or 
any public or private nonprofit organization, solely on the basis of the 
duration of the assistance such project, program, or organization has 
received under this part prior to the date of submission of the 
application. The Director shall grant assistance under this part on the 
basis of merit and to accomplish the goals of the VISTA program, and 
shall consider the needs and requirements of projects in existence on 
such date as well as potential new projects.''.
    SEC. 329. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY FOR STUDENT COMMUNITY SERVICE 
      PROGRAMS.
    Section 114 (42 U.S.C. 4974) is repealed.

SEC. 330. UNIVERSITY YEAR FOR VISTA.

    (a) Program Title.--Part B of title I (42 U.S.C. 4971 et seq.) is 
amended--
        (1) in the part heading, to read as follows:

                 ``Part B--University Year for VISTA'';

        (2) by striking ``University Year for ACTION'' each place that 
    such term appears in such part and inserting ``University Year for 
    VISTA'';
        (3) by striking ``UYA'' each place that such term appears in 
    such part and inserting ``UYV''; and
        (4) in section 112 (42 U.S.C. 4972) by striking the section 
    heading and inserting the following new section heading:


        ``authority to operate university year for vista program''.

    (b) Special Conditions.--Section 113(a) (42 U.S.C. 4973(a)) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``of not less than the duration of an academic 
    year'' and inserting ``of not less than the duration of an academic 
    semester or its equivalent''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
    ``Volunteers may receive a living allowance and such other support 
    or allowances as the Director determines to be appropriate.''.
    SEC. 331. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND OPERATE SPECIAL VOLUNTEER AND 
      DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
    Section 122 (42 U.S.C. 4992) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 122. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH AND OPERATE SPECIAL VOLUNTEER AND 
DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
    ``(a) In General.--The Director is authorized to conduct special 
volunteer programs for demonstration programs, or award grants to or 
enter into contracts with public or nonprofit organizations to carry out 
such programs. Such programs shall encourage wider volunteer 
participation on a full-time, part-time, or short-term basis to further 
the purpose of this part, and identify particular segments of the 
poverty community that could benefit from volunteer and other 
antipoverty efforts.
    ``(b) Assignment and Support of Volunteers.--The assignment of 
volunteers under this section, and the provision of support for such 
volunteers, including any subsistence allowances and stipends, shall be 
on such terms and conditions as the Director shall determine to be 
appropriate, but shall not exceed the level of support provided under 
section 105. Projects using volunteers who do not receive stipends may 
also be supported under this section.
    ``(c) Criteria and Priorities.--In carrying out this section and 
section 123, the Director shall establish criteria and priorities for 
awarding grants and entering into contracts under this part in each 
fiscal year. No grant or contract exceeding $100,000 shall be made under 
this part unless the recipient of the grant or contractor has been 
selected by a competitive process that includes public announcement of 
the availability of funds for such grant or contract, general criteria 
for the selection of recipients or contractors, and a description of the 
application process and application review process.''.

SEC. 332. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.

    Section 123 (42 U.S.C. 4993) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 123. TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.

    ``The Director may provide technical and financial assistance to 
Federal agencies, State and local governments and agencies, private 
nonprofit organizations, employers, and other private organizations that 
utilize or desire to utilize volunteers in carrying out the purpose of 
this part.''.
    SEC. 333. ELIMINATION OF SEPARATE AUTHORITY FOR DRUG ABUSE PROGRAMS.
    Title I (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) by repealing section 124; and
        (2) by redesignating section 125 as section 124.

               CHAPTER 2--NATIONAL SENIOR VOLUNTEER CORPS

SEC. 341. NATIONAL SENIOR VOLUNTEER CORPS.

    (a) Title Heading.--The heading for title II is amended to read as 
follows:

             ``TITLE II--NATIONAL SENIOR VOLUNTEER CORPS''.

    (b) References.--
        (1) Section 200(1) (42 U.S.C. 5000(1)) is amended by striking 
    ``Older American Volunteer Programs'' and inserting ``National 
    Senior Volunteer Corps''.
        (2) The heading for section 221 (42 U.S.C. 5021) is amended by 
    striking ``older american volunteer programs'' and inserting 
    ``national senior volunteer corps''.
        (3) Section 224 (42 U.S.C. 5024) is amended--
            (A) in the section heading by striking ``older american 
        volunteer programs'' and inserting ``national senior volunteer 
        corps''; and
            (B) by striking ``volunteer projects for Older Americans'' 
        and inserting ``National Senior Volunteer Corps projects''.
        (4) Section 205(c) of the Older Americans Amendments of 1975 
    (Public Law 94-135; 89 Stat. 727; 42 U.S.C. 5001 note) is amended by 
    striking ``national older American volunteer programs'' each place 
    the term appears and inserting ``National Senior Volunteer Corps 
    programs''.
    SEC. 342. RETIRED AND SENIOR VOLUNTEER PROGRAM.
    (a) Part Heading.--The heading for part A of title II is amended by 
striking ``Retired Senior Volunteer Program'' and inserting ``Retired 
and Senior Volunteer Program''.
    (b) References.--Section 200 (42 U.S.C. 5000) is amended by striking 
``retired senior volunteer program'' each place that such term appears 
in such section and the Act and inserting ``Retired and Senior Volunteer 
Program''.
    SEC. 343. OPERATION OF THE RETIRED AND SENIOR VOLUNTEER PROGRAM.
    Section 201(a) (42 U.S.C. 5001(a)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``retired 
    persons'' and inserting ``retired individuals and working older 
    individuals''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``aged sixty or over'' and inserting ``55 
        years of age or older''; and
            (B) by inserting ``, and individuals 60 years of age or 
        older will be given priority for enrollment,'' after 
        ``enrolled''.
    SEC. 344. SERVICES UNDER THE FOSTER GRANDPARENT PROGRAM.
    Section 211(a) (42 U.S.C. 5011(a)) is amended by striking ``, 
including services'' and all that follows through ``with special 
needs.'' and inserting a period and the following: ``Such services may 
include services by individuals serving as foster grandparents to 
children who are individuals with disabilities, who have chronic health 
conditions, who are receiving care in hospitals, who are residing in 
homes for dependent and neglected children, or who are receiving 
services provided by day care centers, schools, early intervention 
programs under part H of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(20 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.), Head Start agencies under the Head Start Act, 
or any of a variety of other programs, establishments, and institutions 
providing services for children with special or exceptional needs. 
Individual foster grandparents may provide person-to-person services to 
one or more children, depending on the needs of the project and local 
site.''.

SEC. 345. STIPENDS FOR LOW-INCOME VOLUNTEERS.

    Section 211(d) (42 U.S.C. 5011(d)) is amended--
        (1) in the second sentence by striking ``Any stipend or 
    allowance provided under this subsection shall not be less than 
    $2.20 per hour until October 1, 1990, $2.35 per hour during fiscal 
    year 1991, and $2.50 per hour on and after October 1, 1992,'' and 
    inserting ``Any stipend or allowance provided under this section 
    shall not be less than $2.45 per hour on and after October 1, 1993, 
    and shall be adjusted once prior to December 31, 1997, to account 
    for inflation, as determined by the Director and rounded to the 
    nearest five cents,''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
``In establishing the amount of, and the effective date for, such 
adjustment, the Director, in consultation with the State Commissions on 
National and Community Service (as established under section 178 of the 
National and Community Service Act of 1990) and the heads of the State 
offices established under section 195 of such Act, shall consider the 
effect such adjustment will have on the ability of non-federally funded 
volunteer programs similar to the programs under this title to maintain 
their current level of volunteer hours.''.

SEC. 346. CONDITIONS OF GRANTS AND CONTRACTS.

    Section 212 (42 U.S.C. 5012) is repealed.
    SEC. 347. EVALUATION OF THE SENIOR COMPANION PROGRAM.
    Section 213(c) (42 U.S.C. 5013(c)) is amended by striking paragraph 
(3).
    SEC. 348. AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.
    (a) Promotion.--Section 221(a) (42 U.S.C. 5021(a)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(a)'' and inserting ``(a)(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable, the Director shall enter 
into agreements with--
        ``(A) the Department of Health and Human Services to--
            ``(i) involve retired and senior volunteers, and foster 
        grandparents, in Head Start programs;
            ``(ii) involve retired and senior volunteers, and senior 
        companions, in providing services authorized by title III of the 
        Older Americans Act of 1965; and
            ``(iii) promote the recognition of such volunteers who are 
        qualified to provide in-home services for reimbursement under 
        title XVIII of the Social Security Act for providing such 
        services;
        ``(B) the Department of Education to promote intergenerational 
    tutoring and mentoring for at-risk children; and
        ``(C) the Environmental Protection Agency to support 
    conservation efforts.''.
    (b) Minimum Expenditure.--Section 221(b)(3) (42 U.S.C. 5021(b)(3)) 
is amended by striking ``$250,000'' and inserting ``$375,000''.

SEC. 349. PROGRAMS OF NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE.

    Section 225 (42 U.S.C. 5025) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2)(B) by striking ``paragraph (10)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraphs (10), (12), (15), and (16)'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(12) Programs that address environmental needs.
        ``(13) Programs that reach out to organizations (such as labor 
    unions and profitmaking organizations) not previously involved in 
    addressing national problems of local concern.
        ``(14) Programs that provide for outreach to increase 
    participation of members of ethnic groups who have limited English 
    proficiency.
        ``(15) Programs that support criminal justice activities and 
    juvenile justice activities.
        ``(16) Programs that involve older volunteers working with young 
    people in apprenticeship programs.
        ``(17) Programs that support the community integration of 
    individuals with disabilities.
        ``(18) Programs that provide health, education, and welfare 
    services that augment the activities of State and local agencies, to 
    be carried out in a fiscal year for which the aggregate amount of 
    funds available to such agencies is not less than the annual average 
    aggregate amount of funds available to such agencies for the period 
    of 3 fiscal years preceding such fiscal year.'';
        (3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``under this title''; and
        (4) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (1) and inserting 
    the following new paragraph:
    ``(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), from the amounts 
appropriated under subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d) of section 502, for 
each fiscal year there shall be available to the Director such sums as 
may be necessary to make grants under subsection (a).''.
    SEC. 350. ADJUSTMENTS TO FEDERAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
    Section 226(b) (42 U.S.C. 5026(b)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``(1)''; and
            (B) by striking ``annually'' and inserting ``, once every 2 
        years''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (2).

SEC. 351. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.

    Title II (42 U.S.C. 5000 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new part:

                    ``Part E--Demonstration Programs

``SEC. 231. AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR.

    ``(a) In General.--The Director is authorized to make grants to or 
enter into contracts with public or nonprofit organizations, including 
organizations funded under part A, B, or C, for the purposes of 
demonstrating innovative activities involving older Americans as 
volunteers. The Director may support under this part both volunteers 
receiving stipends and volunteers not receiving stipends.
    ``(b) Activities.--An organization that receives a grant or enters 
into a contract under subsection (a) may use funds made available 
through the grant or contract for activities such as--
        ``(1) linking youth groups and older American organizations in 
    volunteer activities;
        ``(2) involving older volunteers in programs and activities 
    different from programs and activities supported in the community; 
    and
        ``(3) testing whether older American volunteer programs may 
    contribute to new objectives or certain national priorities.

``SEC. 232. PROHIBITION.

    ``The Director may not reduce the activities, projects, or 
volunteers funded under the other parts of this title in order to 
support projects under this part.''.

                        CHAPTER 3--ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 361. PURPOSE OF AGENCY.

    Section 401 (42 U.S.C. 5041) is amended--
        (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following: ``Such 
    Agency shall also promote the coordination of volunteer efforts 
    among Federal, State, and local agencies and organizations, exchange 
    technical assistance information among such agencies and 
    organizations.''; and
        (2) by striking ``Older American Volunteer Programs'' each place 
    the term appears and inserting ``National Senior Volunteer Corps''.

SEC. 362. AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR.

    Section 402 (42 U.S.C. 5042) is amended in paragraphs (5) and (6) by 
inserting ``solicit and'' before ``accept'' in each such paragraph.

SEC. 363. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.

    Section 403 (42 U.S.C. 5043) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b)(2) and (c) as subsections 
    (c) and (d), respectively;
        (2) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by redesignating 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively; 
    and
        (3) by striking subsection (b)(1) and inserting the following:
    ``(b)(1) Programs assisted under this Act shall not be carried on in 
a manner involving the use of funds, the provision of services, or the 
employment or assignment of personnel in a manner supporting or 
resulting in the identification of such programs with--
        ``(A) any partisan or nonpartisan political activity associated 
    with a candidate, or a contending faction or group, in an election 
    for public or party office;
        ``(B) any activity to provide voters or prospective voters with 
    transportation to the polls or similar assistance in connection with 
    any such election; or
        ``(C) any voter registration activity;
except that programs assisted under this Act may make voter registration 
applications and nonpartisan voter registration information available to 
the public on the premises of such programs.
    ``(2) In carrying out any voter registration activity permitted 
under paragraph (1), an individual who is affiliated with, or employed 
to carry out, a program assisted under this Act shall not--
        ``(A) indicate a preference with respect to any candidate, 
    political party, or election issue; or
        ``(B) seek to influence the political or party affiliation, or 
    voting decision, of any individual.''.

SEC. 364. COMPENSATION FOR VOLUNTEERS.

    Section 404 (42 U.S.C. 5044) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c), by inserting ``from such volunteers or 
    from beneficiaries'' after ``compensation'';
        (2) by striking subsection (f); and
        (3) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).

SEC. 365. REPEAL OF REPORT.

    Section 407 (42 U.S.C. 5047) is repealed.

SEC. 366. APPLICATION OF FEDERAL LAW.

    Section 415(b)(4)(A) (42 U.S.C. 5055(b)(4)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``a grade GS-7 employee'' and inserting ``an employee at grade 
GS-5 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United 
States Code''.

SEC. 367. NONDISCRIMINATION PROVISIONS.

    Section 417 (42 U.S.C. 5057) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 417. NONDISCRIMINATION PROVISIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--
        ``(1) Basis.--An individual with responsibility for the 
    operation of a program that receives assistance under this Act shall 
    not discriminate against a participant in, or member of the staff 
    of, such program on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, 
    age, or political affiliation of such participant or member, or on 
    the basis of disability, if the participant or member is a qualified 
    individual with a disability.
        ``(2) Definition.--As used in paragraph (1), the term `qualified 
    individual with a disability' has the meaning given the term in 
    section 101(8) of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 
    U.S.C. 12111(8)).
    ``(b) Federal Financial Assistance.--Any assistance provided under 
this Act shall constitute Federal financial assistance for purposes of 
title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), 
title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.), 
section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and the 
Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.).
    ``(c) Religious Discrimination.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
    individual with responsibility for the operation of a program that 
    receives assistance under this Act shall not discriminate on the 
    basis of religion against a participant in such program or a member 
    of the staff of such program who is paid with funds received under 
    this Act.
        ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the 
    employment, with assistance provided under this Act, of any member 
    of the staff, of a program that receives assistance under this Act, 
    who was employed with the organization operating the program on the 
    date the grant under this Act was awarded.
    ``(d) Rules and Regulations.--The Director shall promulgate rules 
and regulations to provide for the enforcement of this section that 
shall include provisions for summary suspension of assistance for not 
more than 30 days, on an emergency basis, until notice and an 
opportunity to be heard can be provided.''.
    SEC. 368. ELIMINATION OF SEPARATE REQUIREMENTS FOR SETTING 
      REGULATIONS.
    Section 420 (42 U.S.C. 5060) is repealed.
    SEC. 369. CLARIFICATION OF ROLE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Section 422 (42 U.S.C. 5062) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the Inspector General'' 
    after ``Director''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, the Inspector General,'' 
    after ``Director'' each place that such term appears.

SEC. 370. COPYRIGHT PROTECTION.

    Title IV is amended by adding at the end, the following new section:

``SEC. 425. PROTECTION AGAINST IMPROPER USE.

    ``Whoever falsely--
        ``(1) advertises or represents; or
        ``(2) publishes or displays any sign, symbol, or advertisement, 
    reasonably calculated to convey the impression,
that an entity is affiliated with, funded by, or operating under the 
authority of ACTION, VISTA, or any of the programs of the National 
Senior Volunteer Corps may be enjoined under an action filed by the 
Attorney General, on a complaint by the Director.''.
    SEC. 371. DEPOSIT REQUIREMENT CREDIT FOR SERVICE AS A VOLUNTEER.
    (a) Civil Service Retirement System.--
        (1) Creditable service.--Section 8332(j) of title 5, United 
    States Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in the first sentence, by inserting ``the period of 
            an individual's service as a full-time volunteer enrolled in 
            a program of at least 1 year's duration under part A, B, or 
            C of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 
            1973,'' after ``Economic Opportunity Act of 1964,'';
                (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting ``, as a full-
            time volunteer enrolled in a program of at least 1 year's 
            duration under part A, B, or C of title I of the Domestic 
            Volunteer Service Act of 1973,'' after ``Economic 
            Opportunity Act of 1964''; and
                (iii) in the last sentence--

                    (I) by inserting ``or under part A, B, or C of title 
                I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973'' after 
                ``Economic Opportunity Act of 1964''; and

                    (II) by inserting ``or the Chief Executive Officer 
                of the Corporation for National and Community Service, 
                as appropriate,'' after ``Director of the Office of 
                Economic Opportunity''; and

            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The provisions of paragraph (1) relating to credit for service 
as a volunteer or volunteer leader under the Economic Opportunity Act of 
1964, part A, B, or C of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act 
of 1973, or the Peace Corps Act shall not apply to any period of service 
as a volunteer or volunteer leader of an employee or Member with respect 
to which the employee or Member has made the deposit with interest, if 
any, required by section 8334(l).''.
        (2) Deductions, contributions, and deposits.--
            (A) In general.--Section 8334 of title 5, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(l)(1) Each employee or Member who has performed service as a 
volunteer or volunteer leader under part A of title VIII of the Economic 
Opportunity Act of 1964, as a full-time volunteer enrolled in a program 
of at least 1 year's duration under part A, B, or C of title I of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, or as a volunteer or volunteer 
leader under the Peace Corps Act before the date of the separation on 
which the entitlement to any annuity under this subchapter is based may 
pay, in accordance with such regulations as the Office of Personnel 
Management shall issue, an amount equal to 7 percent of the readjustment 
allowance paid to the employee or Member under title VIII of the 
Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 or section 5(c) or 6(1) of the Peace 
Corps Act or the stipend paid to the employee or Member under part A, B, 
or C of title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, for each 
period of service as such a volunteer or volunteer leader.
    ``(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) more than 2 years after 
the later of--
        ``(A) October 1, 1993; or
        ``(B) the date on which the employee or Member making the 
    deposit first becomes an employee or Member,
shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually 
beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period. The 
interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under 
this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable 
for such year under subsection (e).
    ``(3) The Director of the Peace Corps and the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service shall 
furnish such information to the Office of Personnel Management as the 
Office may determine to be necessary for the administration of this 
subsection.''.
            (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 8334(e) of title 5, 
        United States Code, is amended in paragraphs (1) and (2) by 
        striking ``or (k)'' each place that such term appears and 
        inserting ``(k), or (l)''.
    (b) Federal Employees' Retirement System.--
        (1) Creditable service.--Section 8411 of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``subsection (f)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (f) or (h)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) An employee or Member shall be allowed credit for service as a 
volunteer or volunteer leader under part A of title VIII of the Economic 
Opportunity Act of 1964, as a full-time volunteer enrolled in a program 
of at least 1 year's duration under part A, B, or C of title I of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, or as a volunteer or volunteer 
leader under the Peace Corps Act performed at any time prior to the 
separation on which the entitlement to any annuity under this subchapter 
is based if the employee or Member has made a deposit with interest, if 
any, with respect to such service under section 8422(f).''.
        (2) Deductions, contributions.--Section 8422 of title 5, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(f)(1) Each employee or Member who has performed service as a 
volunteer or volunteer leader under part A of title VIII of the Economic 
Opportunity Act of 1964, as a full-time volunteer enrolled in a program 
of at least 1 year's duration under part A, B, or C of title I of the 
Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, or as a volunteer or volunteer 
leader under the Peace Corps Act before the date of the separation on 
which the entitlement to any annuity under this subchapter, or 
subchapter V of this chapter, is based may pay, in accordance with such 
regulations as the Office of Personnel Management shall issue, an amount 
equal to 3 percent of the readjustment allowance paid to the employee or 
Member under title VIII of the Economic Opportunity Service Act of 1964 
or section 5(c) or 6(1) of the Peace Corps Act or the stipend paid to 
the employee or Member under part A, B, or C of title I of the Domestic 
Volunteer Service Act of 1973, for each period of service as such a 
volunteer or volunteer leader.
    ``(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) more than 2 years after 
the later of--
        ``(A) October 1, 1993, or
        ``(B) the date on which the employee or Member making the 
    deposit first becomes an employee or Member,
shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually 
beginning on the date of the expiration of the 2-year period. The 
interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under 
this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable 
for such year under section 8334(e).
    ``(3) The Director of the Peace Corps and the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service shall 
furnish such information to the Office of Personnel Management as the 
Office may determine to be necessary for the administration of this 
subsection.''.
    (c) Applicability and Other Provisions.--
        (1) Applicability.--
            (A) Amendments relating to csrs.--
                (i) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) 
            shall apply with respect to any individual entitled to an 
            annuity on the basis of a separation from service occurring 
            on or after the effective date of this subtitle.
                (ii) Rules relating to annuities based on earlier 
            separations.--An annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83 
            of title 5, United States Code, payable to an individual 
            based on a separation from service occurring before the 
            effective date of this subtitle shall be subject to the 
            provisions of paragraph (2).
            (B) Amendments relating to fers.--
                (i) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (b) 
            shall apply with respect to any individual entitled to an 
            annuity on the basis of a separation from service occurring 
            before, on, or after the effective date of this subtitle, 
            subject to clause (ii).
                (ii) Rule relating to annuities based on earlier 
            separations.--In the case of any individual whose 
            entitlement to an annuity is based on a separation from 
            service occurring before the effective date of this 
            subtitle, any increase in such individual's annuity on the 
            basis of a deposit made under section 8442(f) of title 5, 
            United States Code, as amended by subsection (b)(2), shall 
            be effective beginning with the annuity payment payable for 
            the first calendar month beginning after the effective date 
            of this subtitle.
        (2) Special rules.--
            (A) Old-age or survivors insurance benefits.--Subject to 
        subparagraph (B), in any case in which an individual described 
        in paragraph (1)(A)(ii) is also entitled to old-age or survivors 
        insurance benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act 
        (or would be entitled to such benefits upon filing an 
        application therefor), the amount of the annuity to which such 
        individual is entitled under subchapter III of chapter 83 of 
        title 5, United States Code (after taking into account any 
        creditable service as a volunteer or volunteer leader under the 
        Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, the Domestic Volunteer Service 
        Act of 1973, or the Peace Corps Act) which is payable for any 
        month shall be reduced by an amount determined by multiplying 
        the amount of such old-age or survivors insurance benefit for 
        the determination month by a fraction--
                (i) the numerator of which is the total of the wages 
            (within the meaning of section 209 of the Social Security 
            Act) for service as a volunteer or volunteer leader under 
            the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, the Domestic Volunteer 
            Service Act of 1973, or the Peace Corps Act of such 
            individual credited for years before the calendar year in 
            which the determination month occurs, up to the contribution 
            and benefit base determined under section 230 of the Social 
            Security Act (or other applicable maximum annual amount 
            referred to in section 215(e)(1) of such Act for each such 
            year); and
                (ii) the denominator of which is the total of all wages 
            described in clause (i), plus all other wages (within the 
            meaning of section 209 of such Act) and all self-employment 
            income (within the meaning of section 211(b) of such Act) of 
            such individual credited for years after 1936 and before the 
            calendar year in which the determination month occurs, up to 
            the contribution and benefit base (or such other amount 
            referred to in section 215(e)(1) of such Act for each such 
            year.
            (B) Limitations.--
                (i) Reduction in annuity.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
            reduce the annuity of an individual below the amount of the 
            annuity which would be payable to the individual for the 
            determination month if the provisions of section 8332(j) of 
            title 5, United States Code, relating to service as a 
            volunteer or volunteer leader, applied to the individual for 
            such month.
                (ii) Application.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in 
            the case of an individual who, prior to the date of 
            enactment of this Act, made a deposit under section 8334(c) 
            of title 5, United States Code, with respect to service as a 
            volunteer or volunteer leader (as described in subparagraph 
            (A)).
                (iii) Determination month.--For purposes of this 
            paragraph, the term ``determination month'' means--

                    (I) the first month the individual described in 
                paragraph (1)(A)(ii) is entitled to old-age or survivors 
                benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act 
                (or would be entitled to such benefits upon filing an 
                application therefor); or
                    (II) the first calendar month beginning after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, in the case of any 
                individual entitled to such benefits for such month.

                (iv) Rule relating to annuities based on earlier 
            separations.--Any increase in an annuity which occurs by 
            virtue of the enactment of this paragraph shall be effective 
            beginning with the annuity payment payable for the first 
            calendar month beginning after the effective date of this 
            subtitle.
        (3) Furnishing of information.--The Secretary of Health and 
    Human Services shall furnish such information to the Office of 
    Personnel Management as may be necessary to carry out this 
    subsection.
        (4) Action to inform individuals.--The Director of the Office of 
    Personnel Management shall take such action as may be necessary and 
    appropriate to inform individuals entitled to credit under this 
    section for service as a volunteer or volunteer leader, or to have 
    any annuity recomputed, or to make a deposit under this section, of 
    such entitlement.

     CHAPTER 4--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS AND OTHER AMENDMENTS

    SEC. 381. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR TITLE I.
    Section 501 (42 U.S.C. 5081) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 501. NATIONAL VOLUNTEER ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS.
    ``(a) Authorizations.--
        ``(1) Volunteers in service to america.--There are authorized to 
    be appropriated to carry out parts A and B of title I, excluding 
    section 109, $56,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and such sums as may 
    be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1995 and 1996.
        ``(2) Literacy activities.--There are authorized to be 
    appropriated to carry out section 109, $5,600,000 for fiscal year 
    1994, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 
    1995 and 1996.
        ``(3) Special volunteer programs.--There are authorized to be 
    appropriated to carry out part C of title I, excluding section 125, 
    such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 
    through 1996.
        ``(4) Literacy challenge grants.--There are authorized to be 
    appropriated to carry out section 125, such sums as may be necessary 
    for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.
        ``(5) Specification of budget function.--The authorizations of 
    appropriations contained in this subsection shall be considered to 
    be a component of budget function 500 as used by the Office of 
    Management and Budget to cover education, training, employment, and 
    social services, and, as such, shall be considered to be related to 
    the programs of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
    and Education for budgetary purposes.
    ``(b) Subsistence.--The minimum level of an allowance for 
subsistence required under section 105(b)(2), to be provided to each 
volunteer under title I, may not be reduced or limited in order to 
provide for an increase in the number of volunteer service years under 
part A of title I.
    ``(c) Limitation.--No part of the funds appropriated to carry out 
part A of title I may be used to provide volunteers or assistance to any 
program or project authorized under part B or C of title I, or under 
title II, unless the program or project meets the antipoverty criteria 
of part A of title I.
    ``(d) Availability.--Amounts appropriated for part A of title I 
shall remain available for obligation until the end of the fiscal year 
following the fiscal year for which the amounts were appropriated.
    ``(e) Volunteer Service Requirement.--
        ``(1) Volunteer service years.--Of the amounts appropriated 
    under this section for parts A, B, and C of title I, including 
    section 124, there shall first be available for part A of title I, 
    including sections 104(e) and 109, an amount not less than the 
    amount necessary to provide 3,700 volunteer service years in fiscal 
    year 1994, 4,000 volunteer service years in fiscal year 1995, and 
    4,500 volunteer service years in fiscal year 1996.
        ``(2) Plan.--If the Director determines that funds appropriated 
    to carry out part A, B, or C of title I are insufficient to provide 
    for the years of volunteer service required by paragraph (1), the 
    Director shall submit a plan to the relevant authorizing and 
    appropriations committees of Congress that will detail what is 
    necessary to fully meet this requirement.''.
    SEC. 382. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR TITLE II.
    Section 502 (42 U.S.C. 5082) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 502. NATIONAL SENIOR VOLUNTEER CORPS.

    ``(a) Retired and Senior Volunteer Program.--There are authorized to 
be appropriated to carry out part A of title II, $45,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1994, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal 
years 1995 and 1996.
    ``(b) Foster Grandparent Program.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out part B of title II, $85,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1994, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal 
years 1995 and 1996.
    ``(c) Senior Companion Program.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out part C of title II, $40,000,000 for fiscal 
year 1994, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal 
years 1995 and 1996.
    ``(d) Demonstration Programs.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out part E of title II, such sums as may be 
necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.''.
    SEC. 383. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR TITLE IV.
    Section 504 (42 U.S.C. 5084) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 504. ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION.
    ``(a) In General.--For each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996, 
there are authorized to be appropriated for the administration of this 
Act as provided for in title IV, 18 percent of the total amount 
appropriated under sections 501 and 502 with respect to such year.
    ``(b) Evaluation.--For each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996, 
the Director is authorized to expend not less than 2\1/2\ percent, and 
not more than 5 percent, of the amount appropriated under subsection 
(a), for the purposes prescribed in section 416.''.
    SEC. 384. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS; COMPENSATION FOR VISTA FECA 
      CLAIMANTS.
    Section 8143(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``GS-7'' and inserting ``GS-5 of the General Schedule under 
section 5332 of title 5, United States Code''.

SEC. 385. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY.

    Title VII (42 U.S.C. 5091 et seq.) is repealed.

                      CHAPTER 5--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 391. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    The Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4950 et seq.) 
is amended by striking ``That this Act'' and all that follows through 
the end of the table of contents and inserting the following:

``SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    ``(a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the `Domestic Volunteer 
Service Act of 1973'.
    ``(b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents is as follows:

``Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
``Sec. 2. Volunteerism policy.

           ``TITLE I--NATIONAL VOLUNTEER ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAMS

               ``Part A--Volunteers in Service to America

``Sec. 101. Statement of purpose.
``Sec. 102. Authority to operate VISTA program.
``Sec. 103. Selection and assignment of volunteers.

``Sec. 104. Terms and periods of service.
``Sec. 105. Support service.
``Sec. 106. Participation of beneficiaries.
``Sec. 107. Participation of younger and older persons.
``Sec. 108. Limitation.
``Sec. 109. VISTA Literacy Corps.
``Sec. 110. Applications for assistance.

                   ``Part B--University Year for VISTA

``Sec. 111. Statement of purpose.
``Sec. 112. Authority to operate University Year for VISTA program.
``Sec. 113. Special conditions.

                  ``Part C--Special Volunteer Programs

``Sec. 121. Statement of purpose.
``Sec. 122. Authority to establish and operate special volunteer and 
demonstration programs.
``Sec. 123. Technical and financial assistance.
``Sec. 125. Literacy challenge grants.

               ``TITLE II--NATIONAL SENIOR VOLUNTEER CORPS

``Sec. 200. Statement of purposes.

             ``Part A--Retired and Senior Volunteer Program

``Sec. 201. Grants and contracts for volunteer service projects.

                  ``Part B--Foster Grandparent Program

``Sec. 211. Grants and contracts for volunteer service projects.

                   ``Part C--Senior Companion Program

``Sec. 213. Grants and contracts for volunteer service projects.

                      ``Part D--General Provisions

``Sec. 221. Promotion of National Senior Volunteer Corps.
``Sec. 222. Payments.
``Sec. 223. Minority group participation.
``Sec. 224. Use of locally generated contributions in National Senior 
Volunteer Corps.
``Sec. 225. Programs of national significance.
``Sec. 226. Adjustments to Federal financial assistance.
``Sec. 227. Multiyear grants or contracts.

                    ``Part E--Demonstration Programs

``Sec. 231. Authority of Director.

               ``TITLE IV--ADMINISTRATION AND COORDINATION

``Sec. 403. Political activities.
``Sec. 404. Special limitations.
``Sec. 406. Labor standards.
``Sec. 408. Joint funding.
``Sec. 409. Prohibition of Federal control.
``Sec. 410. Coordination with other programs.
``Sec. 411. Prohibition.
``Sec. 412. Notice and hearing procedures for suspension and termination 
of financial assistance.
``Sec. 414. Distribution of benefits between rural and urban areas.
``Sec. 415. Application of Federal law.
``Sec. 416. Evaluation.
``Sec. 417. Nondiscrimination provisions.
``Sec. 418. Eligibility for other benefits.
``Sec. 419. Legal expenses.
``Sec. 421. Definitions.
``Sec. 422. Audit.
``Sec. 423. Reduction of paperwork.
``Sec. 424. Review of project renewals.
``Sec. 425. Protection against improper use.
``Sec. 426. Center for Research and Training.

               ``TITLE V--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

``Sec. 501. National volunteer antipoverty programs.
``Sec. 502. National Senior Volunteer Corps.
``Sec. 504. Administration and coordination.
``Sec. 505. Availability of appropriations.

           ``TITLE VI--AMENDMENTS TO OTHER LAWS AND REPEALERS

``Sec. 601. Supersedence of Reorganization Plan No. 1 of July 1, 1971.
``Sec. 602. Creditable service for civil service retirement.
``Sec. 603. Repeal of title VIII of the Economic Opportunity Act.
``Sec. 604. Repeal of title VI of the Older Americans Act.''.

SEC. 392. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This subtitle shall become effective on October 1, 1993.
              TITLE IV--TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

    Section 421 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 
5061) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (6);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(8) the term `Corporation' means the Corporation for National 
    and Community Service established under section 191 of the National 
    and Community Service Act of 1990;
        ``(9) the term `foster grandparent' means a volunteer in the 
    Foster Grandparent Program;
        ``(10) the term `Foster Grandparent Program' means the program 
    established under part B of title II;
        ``(11) except as provided in section 417, the term `individual 
    with a disability' has the meaning given the term in section 7(8)(B) 
    of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 706(8)(B));
        ``(12) the term `Inspector General' means the Inspector General 
    of ACTION;
        ``(13) the term `national senior volunteer' means a volunteer in 
    the National Senior Volunteer Corps;
        ``(14) the term `National Senior Volunteer Corps' means the 
    programs established under parts A, B, C, and E of title II;
        ``(15) the term `Retired and Senior Volunteer Program' means the 
    program established under part A of title II;
        ``(16) the term `retired or senior volunteer' means a volunteer 
    in the Retired and Senior Volunteer Program;
        ``(17) the term `senior companion' means a volunteer in the 
    Senior Companion Program;
        ``(18) the term `Senior Companion Program' means the program 
    established under part C of title II;
        ``(19) the terms `VISTA' and `Volunteers in Service to America' 
    mean the program established under part A of title I; and
        ``(20) the term `VISTA volunteer' means a volunteer in VISTA.''.
    SEC. 402. REFERENCES TO THE COMMISSION ON NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY 
      SERVICE.
    (a) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993.--
        (1) Section 1092(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 1993 (42 U.S.C. 12653a note) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``Commission on National Community 
            Service'' and inserting ``Corporation for National and 
            Community Service''; and
                (ii) by striking ``Commission shall prepare'' and 
            inserting ``Board of Directors of the Corporation shall 
            prepare''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Board of Directors of 
        the Commission on National and Community Service'' and inserting 
        ``Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and 
        Community Service''.
        (2) Section 1093(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12653a note) is 
    amended by striking ``the Board of Directors and Executive Director 
    of the Commission on National and Community Service'' and inserting 
    ``the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service''.
        (3) Section 1094 of such Act (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 
    2535) is amended--
            (A) in the title, by striking ``commission on national and 
        community service'' and inserting ``corporation for national and 
        community service'';
            (B) in subsection (a)--
                (i) in the heading, by striking ``Commission'' and 
            inserting ``Corporation'';
                (ii) in the first sentence, by striking ``Commission on 
            National and Community Service'' and inserting ``Corporation 
            for National and Community Service''; and
                (iii) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
            Commission'' and inserting ``The Chief Executive Officer of 
            the Corporation''; and
            (C) in subsection (b)--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Board of Directors 
            of the Commission on National and Community Service'' and 
            inserting ``Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
            National and Community Service''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Commission'' 
            and inserting ``the Chief Executive Officer of the 
            Corporation for National and Community Service''.
        (4) Section 1095 of such Act (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 
    2535) is amended in the heading for subsection (b) by striking 
    ``Commission on National and Community Service'' and inserting 
    ``Corporation for National and Community Service''.
        (5) Section 2(b) of such Act (Public Law 102-484; 106 Stat. 
    2315) is amended by striking the item relating to section 1094 of 
    such Act and inserting the following:
``Sec. 1094. Other programs of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service.''.

    (b) National and Community Service Act of 1990.--
        (1) Sections 159(b)(2) (as redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of 
    this Act) and 165 (as redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of this 
    Act), subsections (a) and (b) of section 172, sections 176(a) and 
    177(c), and subsections (a), (b), and (d) through (h) of section 
    179, of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
    12653h(b)(2), 12653n, 12632 (a) and (b), 12636(a), 12637(c), and 
    12639 (a), (b), and (d) through (h)) are each amended by striking 
    the term ``Commission'' each place the term appears and inserting 
    ``Corporation''.
        (2) Sections 152, 157(b)(2), 162(a)(2)(C), 164, and 166(1) of 
    such Act (in each case, as redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of this 
    Act) (42 U.S.C. 12653a, 12653f(b)(2), 12653k(a)(2)(C), 12653m, and 
    12653o(1)) are each amended by striking ``Commission on National and 
    Community Service'' and inserting ``Corporation''.
        (3) Section 163(b)(9) of such Act (as redesignated in section 
    104(b)(3) of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 12635l(b)(9)) is amended by 
    striking ``Chair of the Commission on National and Community 
    Service'' and inserting ``Chief Executive Officer''.
        (4) Section 303(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12662(a)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``The President'' and inserting ``The 
        President, acting through the Corporation,'';
            (B) by inserting ``in furtherance of activities under 
        section 302'' after ``section 501(b)''; and
            (C) by striking ``the President'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``the Corporation''.
    SEC. 403. REFERENCES TO DIRECTORS OF THE COMMISSION ON NATIONAL AND 
      COMMUNITY SERVICE.
    (a) Board of Directors.--
        (1) Section 159(a) of such Act (as redesignated in section 
    104(b)(3) of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 12653h(b)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``Board.--The Board'' and inserting 
        ``Supervision.--The Chief Executive Officer'';
            (B) by striking ``the Board'' in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1), and in paragraph (1), and inserting ``the Chief 
        Executive Officer''; and
            (C) by striking ``the Director'' in paragraph (1) and 
        inserting ``the Board''.
        (2) Section 159(b) of such Act (as redesignated in section 
    104(b)(3) of this Act) (42 U.S.C. 12653h(b)) is amended by striking 
    ``(b)'' and all that follows through ``Commission on National and 
    Community Service'' and inserting ``(b) Monitoring and 
    Coordination.--The Chief Executive Officer''.
        (3) Section 159(c)(1) (as redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of 
    this Act) (42 U.S.C. 12653h(c)(1)) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Board, in 
        consultation with the Executive Director,'' and inserting ``the 
        Chief Executive Officer''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking ``the Board 
        through the Executive Director'' and inserting ``the Chief 
        Executive Officer''.
        (4) Section 166(6) (as redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of this 
    Act) (42 U.S.C. 12653o(6)) is amended--
            (A) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (11) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (10), respectively.
    (b) Director of Civilian Community Corps.--Sections 155(a), 
157(b)(1)(A), 158(a), 159(c)(1)(A), and 163(a) (in each case, as 
redesignated in section 104(b)(3) of this Act) of the National and 
Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12653d(a), 12653f(b)(1)(A), 
12653g(a), 12653h(c)(1)(A), and 12653l(a)) are amended by striking 
``Director of the Civilian Community Corps'' each place the term appears 
and inserting ``Director''.

SEC. 404. DEFINITION OF DIRECTOR.

    Section 421 of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 
5061) is amended by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
new paragraph:
        ``(1) the term `Director' means the Chief Executive Officer of 
    the Corporation for National and Community Service appointed under 
    section 193 of the National and Community Service Act of 1990;''.
    SEC. 405. REFERENCES TO ACTION AND THE ACTION AGENCY.
    (a) Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973.--
        (1) Section 2(b) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 
    (42 U.S.C. 4950(b)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``ACTION, the Federal domestic volunteer 
        agency,'' and inserting ``this Act''; and
            (B) by striking ``ACTION shall'' and inserting ``the 
        Corporation for National and Community Service shall''.
        (2) Section 103(b)(2)(A) of such Act (as amended by section 
    323(b)(1)(A) of this Act) is amended by striking ``the ACTION 
    Agency'' the first place that such term appears and inserting ``the 
    Corporation''.
        (3) Section 103(b)(4) of such Act (as redesignated by section 
    323(b)(3) of this Act) is amended by striking ``the ACTION Agency'' 
    each place that such appears and inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (4) Section 103(c)(1)(D) of such Act is amended by striking 
    ``the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (5) Section 124(b) of such Act (as redesignated by section 
    333(2) of this Act) is amended by striking ``the ACTION Agency'' and 
    inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (6) Section 225(e) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5025(e)) is Pamended 
    by striking ``the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (7) Section 403(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5043(a)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``the ACTION Agency'' the first place such 
        term appears and inserting ``the Corporation under this Act''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``the ACTION Agency'' the second place such 
        term appears and inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (8) Section 408 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5048) is amended by 
    striking ``the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (9) Section 416(f)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 5056(f)(1)) is 
    amended by striking ``ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``Corporation''.
        (10) Section 421(12) of such Act (as added by section 401 of 
    this Act) is amended by striking ``ACTION'' and inserting ``the 
    Corporation''.
        (11) Section 425 of such Act (as added by section 370 of this 
    Act) is further amended by striking ``ACTION'' and inserting ``the 
    Corporation''.
    (b) Civil Service Retirement System.--Section 8332(j)(1) of title 5, 
United States Code (as amended by section 371(a)(1)(A)(iii)(II) of this 
Act) is amended by striking ``the Director of ACTION'' and inserting 
``the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service''.
    (c) Public Housing Security.--Section 207(c) of the Public Housing 
Security Demonstration Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-557; 92 Stat. 2093; 12 
U.S.C. 1701z-6 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3)(ii), by striking ``ACTION'' and inserting 
    ``the Corporation for National and Community Service''; and
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``ACTION'' and inserting ``the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service''.
    (d) National Forest Volunteers.--Section 1 of the Volunteers in the 
National Forests Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 558a) is amended by striking 
``ACTION'' and inserting ``the Corporation for National and Community 
Service''.
    (e) Peace Corps.--Section 2A of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2501-
1) is amended by inserting after ``the ACTION Agency'' the following: 
``, the successor to the ACTION Agency,''.
    (f) Indian Economic Development.--Section 502 of the Indian 
Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1542) is amended by striking ``ACTION 
Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation for National and Community 
Service''.
    (g) Older Americans.--The Older Americans Act of 1965 is amended--
        (1) in section 202(c)(1) (42 U.S.C. 3012(c)(1)), by striking 
    ``the Director of the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the 
    Corporation for National and Community Service'';
        (2) in section 203(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 3013(a)(1)), by striking 
    ``the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation for National 
    and Community Service''; and
        (3) in section 422(b)(12)(C) (42 U.S.C. 3035a(b)(12)(C)), by 
    striking ``the ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``the Corporation for 
    National and Community Service''.
    (h) VISTA Service Extension.--Section 101(c)(1) of the Domestic 
Volunteer Service Act Amendments of 1989 (Public Law 101-204; 103 Stat. 
1810; 42 U.S.C. 4954 note) is amended by striking ``Director of the 
ACTION Agency'' and inserting ``Chief Executive Officer of the 
Corporation for National and Community Service''.
    (i) Aging Resource Specialists.--Section 205(c) of the Older 
Americans Amendments of 1975 (Public Law 94-135; 89 Stat. 727; 42 U.S.C. 
5001 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``the ACTION Agency,'' and inserting ``the 
        Corporation for National and Community Service,''; and
            (B) by striking ``the Director of the ACTION Agency'' and 
        inserting ``the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``ACTION Agency'' and 
    inserting ``Corporation''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting 
    the following new subparagraph:
        ``(A) the term `Corporation' means the Corporation for National 
    and Community Service established by section 191 of the National and 
    Community Service Act of 1990.''.
    (j) Promotion of Photovoltaic Energy.--Section 11(a) of the Solar 
Photovoltaic Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1978 
(42 U.S.C. 5590) is amended by striking ``the Director of ACTION,''.
    (k) Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice.--Section 206(a)(1) of 
the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 
5616(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``the Director of the ACTION Agency'' 
and inserting ``the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
National and Community Service''.
    (l) Energy Conservation.--Section 413(b)(1) of the Energy 
Conservation and Production Act (42 U.S.C. 6863(b)(1)) is amended by 
striking ``the Director of the ACTION Agency,''.
    (m) Interagency Council on the Homeless.--Section 202(a) of the 
Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11312(a)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (12) and inserting the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(12) The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for 
    National and Community Service, or the designee of the Chief 
    Executive Officer.''.
    (n) Anti-Drug Abuse.--Section 3601 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 
1988 (42 U.S.C. 11851) is amended by striking paragraph (5) and 
inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) the term `Director' means the Chief Executive Officer of 
    the Corporation for National and Community Service,''.
    (o) Administration on Children, Youth, and Families.--Section 916(b) 
of the Claude Pepper Young Americans Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12312(b)) is 
amended by striking ``the Director of the ACTION Agency'' and inserting 
``the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and 
Community Service''.
    (p) National and Community Service.--
        (1) Subsection (i) of section 178 of the National and Community 
    Service Act of 1990 (as amended by section 201 of this Act) is 
    further amended by striking ``ACTION, or of the Corporation,'' and 
    inserting ``the Corporation''.
        (2) Subsection (r) of section 198 of such Act (as amended by 
    section 104(c) of this Act) is further amended by striking ``ACTION 
    Agency'' and inserting ``Corporation''.

SEC. 406. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) Commission.--The amendments made by sections 401 through 402 
will take effect on October 1, 1993.
    (b) ACTION.--The amendments made by sections 404 and 405 shall take 
effect on the effective date of section 203(c)(2).
                    TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 501. COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICAN ACT.

    No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act (including the amendments 
made by this Act) may be expended by an entity unless the entity agrees 
that in expending the assistance the entity will comply with sections 2 
through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly 
known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    SEC. 502. SENSE OF CONGRESS; REQUIREMENT REGARDING NOTICE.
    (a) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products.--In the case 
of any equipment or product that may be authorized to be purchased with 
financial assistance provided under this Act (including the amendments 
made by this Act), it is the sense of the Congress that entities 
receiving such assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase 
only American-made equipment and products.
    (b) Notice to Recipients of Assistance.--In providing financial 
assistance under this Act (including the amendments made by this Act), 
the Secretary of Education shall provide to each recipient of the 
assistance a notice describing the statement made in subsection (a) by 
the Congress.
    SEC. 503. PROHIBITION OF CONTRACTS WITH PERSONS FALSELY LABELING 
      PRODUCTS AS MADE IN AMERICA.
    If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that 
any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a ``Made in America'' 
inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product 
sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United 
States, the person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or 
subcontract made with funds appropriated to carry out this Act, pursuant 
to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described in 
sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.