[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 631 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.631
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To designate certain lands in the State of Colorado as components of 
the National

         Wilderness Preservation System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Colorado Wilderness 
Act of 1993''.
    (b) Definitions.--(1) As used in this Act with reference to lands in 
the National Forest System, the term ``the Secretary'' means the 
Secretary of Agriculture.
    (2) As used in this Act with respect to lands not in the National 
Forest System, the term ``the Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
Interior.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONS TO THE WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
    (a) Additions.--The following lands in the State of Colorado are 
hereby designated as wilderness and, therefore, as components of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System:
        (1) Certain lands in the Gunnison Resource Area administered by 
    the Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 3,390 
    acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``American Flats 
    Additions to the Big Blue Wilderness Proposal (American Flats)'', 
    dated January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated in and shall 
    be deemed to be a part of the wilderness area designated by section 
    102(a)(1) of Public Law 96-560 and renamed Uncompahgre Wilderness by 
    section 3(f) of this Act.
        (2) Certain lands in the Gunnison Resource Area administered by 
    the Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 815 
    acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Bill Hare Gulch and 
    Larson Creek Additions to the Big Blue Wilderness'', dated January, 
    1993, and which are hereby incorporated in and shall be deemed to be 
    a part of the wilderness area designated by section 102(a)(1) of 
    Public Law 96-560 and renamed Uncompahgre Wilderness by section 3(f) 
    of this Act.
        (3) Certain lands in the Pike and San Isabel National Forests 
    which comprise approximately 43,410 acres, as generally depicted on 
    a map entitled ``Buffalo Peaks Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Buffalo Peaks Wilderness.
        (4) Certain lands in the Gunnison National Forest and in the 
    Powderhorn Primitive Area administered by the Bureau of Land 
    Management which comprise approximately 60,100 acres, as generally 
    depicted on a map entitled ``Powderhorn Wilderness Proposal'', dated 
    January, 1993, and which shall be known as the Powderhorn 
    Wilderness.
        (5) Certain lands in the Routt National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 20,750 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Davis Peak Additions to Mount Zirkel Wilderness Proposal'', dated 
    January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated in and shall be 
    deemed to be a part of the Mount Zirkel Wilderness designated by 
    Public Law 88-555, as amended by Public Law 96-560.
        (6) Certain lands in the Gunnison National Forests which 
    comprise approximately 33,060 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Fossil Ridge Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 1993, 
    and which shall be known as the Fossil Ridge Wilderness.
        (7) Certain lands in the San Isabel National Forest which 
    comprise approximately 22,040 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Greenhorn Mountain Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 
    1993, and which shall be known as the Greenhorn Mountain Wilderness.
        (8) Certain lands within the Pike National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 14,700 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Lost Creek Wilderness Addition Proposal'', dated January, 1993, 
    which are hereby incorporated in and shall be deemed to be a part of 
    the Lost Creek Wilderness designated by Public Law 96-560: Provided, 
    That the Secretary is authorized to acquire, only by donation or 
    exchange, various mineral reservations held by the State of Colorado 
    within the boundaries of the Lost Creek Wilderness additions 
    designated by this Act.
        (9) Certain lands in the Gunnison National Forests which 
    comprise approximately 5,500 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``O-Be-Joyful Addition to the Raggeds Wilderness 
    Proposal'', dated January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated 
    in and shall be deemed to be a part of the Raggeds Wilderness 
    designated by Public Law 96-560.
        (10) Certain lands in the Rio Grande and San Isabel National 
    Forests and lands in the San Luis Resource Area administered by the 
    Bureau of Land Management which comprise approximately 226,455 
    acres, as generally depicted on four maps entitled ``Sangre de 
    Cristo Wilderness Proposal (North Section)'', ``Sangre de Cristo 
    Wilderness Proposal (North Middle Section)'', ``Sangre de Cristo 
    Wilderness Proposal (South Middle Section)'', and ``Sangre de Cristo 
    Wilderness Proposal (South Section)'', all dated January, 1993, and 
    which shall be known as the Sangre de Cristo Wilderness.
        (11) Certain lands in the Routt National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 47,140 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Service Creek Wilderness Proposal (Sarvis Creek Wilderness)'', 
    dated January, 1993, and which shall be known as the Sarvis Creek 
    Wilderness.
        (12) Certain lands in the San Juan National Forest which 
    comprise approximately 31,100 acres, as generally depicted on two 
    maps, one entitled ``South San Juan Wilderness Expansion Proposal, 
    Montezuma Peak'' and the other entitled ``South San Juan Wilderness 
    Expansion Proposal, V-Rock Trail'', both dated January, 1993, and 
    which are hereby incorporated in and shall be deemed to be a part of 
    the South San Juan Wilderness designated by Public Law 96-560.
        (13) Certain lands in the White River National Forest which 
    comprise approximately 8,330 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Spruce Creek Addition to the Hunter-Fryingpan Wilderness 
    Proposal'', dated January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated 
    in and shall be deemed to be part of the Hunter Fryingpan Wilderness 
    designated by Public Law 95-327: Provided, That no right, or claim 
    of right, to the diversion and use of waters by the Fryingpan-
    Arkansas Project shall be prejudiced, expanded, diminished, altered, 
    or affected by this Act, nor shall anything in this Act be construed 
    to expand, abate, impair, impede, limit, interfere with, or prevent 
    the construction, operation, use, maintenance, or repair of the 
    project facilities and diversion systems to their full extent.
        (14) Certain lands in the Arapaho National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 8,095 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Byers Peak Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 1993, and which 
    shall be known as the Byers Peak Wilderness.
        (15) Certain lands in the Arapaho National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 12,300 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Vasquez Peak Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 1993, and which 
    shall be known as the Vasquez Peak Wilderness.
        (16) Certain lands in the San Juan National Forest which 
    comprise approximately 28,740 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``West Needle Wilderness Proposal and Weminuche 
    Additions'', dated January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated 
    in and shall be deemed to be a part of the Weminuche Wilderness 
    designated by Public Law 93-632, as amended by Public Law 96-560.
        (17) Certain lands in the Rio Grande National Forest which 
    comprise approximately 25,640 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
    entitled ``Wheeler Addition to the La Garita Wilderness Proposal'', 
    dated January, 1993, and which shall be incorporated in and shall be 
    deemed to be a part of the La Garita Wilderness designated by Public 
    Law 96-560.
        (18) Certain lands in the Arapaho National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 13,175 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Farr Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 1993, and which shall 
    be known as the Ptarmigan Peak Wilderness.
        (19) Certain lands in the Arapaho National Forest which comprise 
    approximately 6,990 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled 
    ``Bowen Gulch Additions to Never Summer Wilderness Proposal'', dated 
    January, 1993, and which are hereby incorporated in and shall be 
    deemed to be a part of the Never Summer Wilderness designated by 
    Public Law 96-560.
    (b) Maps and Descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the appropriate Secretary shall file a map and a 
boundary description of each area designated as wilderness by this Act 
with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the United States House 
of Representatives. Each map and description shall have the same force 
and effect as if included in this Act, except that the appropriate 
Secretary is authorized to correct clerical and typographical errors in 
such boundary descriptions and maps. Such maps and boundary descriptions 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of 
the Chief of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, and the 
Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, Department of 
the Interior, as appropriate.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--(1) Subject to valid existing rights, lands 
designated as wilderness by this Act shall be managed by the Secretary 
of Agriculture or the Secretary of the Interior, as appropriate, in 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and this 
Act, except that, with respect to any wilderness areas designated by 
this Act, any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective date of 
the Wilderness Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (2) Administrative jurisdiction over those lands designated as 
wilderness pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (10) of section 2(a) of this 
Act, and which, as of the date of enactment of this Act, are 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management, is hereby transferred to 
the Forest Service and such lands are hereby added to the appropriate 
National Forest.
    (b) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in wilderness areas designated by 
this Act shall be administered in accordance with the provisions of 
section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), as further 
interpreted by section 108 of Public Law 96-560, and, as regards 
wilderness managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the guidelines set 
forth in Appendix A of House Report 101-405 of the 101st Congress.
    (c) State Jurisdiction.--As provided in section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this Act shall be 
construed as affecting the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State 
of Colorado with respect to wildlife and fish in Colorado.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2(e) of the Endangered American 
Wilderness Act of 1978 (92 Stat. 41) is amended by striking ``Subject 
to'' and all that follows through ``System.''.
    (e) Buffer Zones.--Congress does not intend that the designation by 
this Act of wilderness areas in the State of Colorado creates or implies 
the creation of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any 
wilderness area. The fact that nonwilderness activities or uses can be 
seen or heard from within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, 
preclude such activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness 
area.
    (f) Wilderness Name Change.--The wilderness area designated as ``Big 
Blue Wilderness'' by section 102(a)(1) of Public Law 96-560, and the 
additions thereto made by paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2(a) of this 
Act, shall hereafter be known as the Uncompahgre Wilderness. Any 
reference to the Big Blue Wilderness in any law, regulation, map, 
document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be 
considered to be a reference to the Uncompahgre Wilderness.
    (g) Boundaries and Authorizations To Use Lands.--(1) For the purpose 
of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 
U.S.C. 4601-9), the boundaries of affected National Forests, as modified 
by this section, shall be considered to be the boundaries of such 
National Forests as of January 1, 1965.
    (2) Nothing in this subsection shall affect valid existing rights of 
any person under the authority of law.
    (3) Authorizations to use lands transferred by this section which 
were issued prior to the date of enactment of this Act shall remain 
subject to the laws and regulations under which they were issued, to the 
extent consistent with this Act. Such authorizations shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture. Any renewal or extension 
of such authorizations shall be subject to the laws and regulations 
pertaining to the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, and the 
applicable law, including this Act. The change of administrative 
jurisdiction resulting from the enactment of this section shall not in 
itself constitute a basis for denying or approving the renewal or 
reissuance of any such authorization.

SEC. 4. WILDERNESS RELEASE.

    (a) Repeal of Wilderness Study Provisions.--Sections 105 and 106 of 
the Act of December 22, 1980 (Public Law 96-560), are hereby repealed.
    (b) Initial Plans.--Section 107(b)(2) of the Act of December 22, 
1980 (Public Law 96-560), is amended by striking out ``except those 
lands remaining in further planning upon enactment of this Act, areas 
listed in sections 105 and 106 of this Act, or previously 
congressionally designated wilderness study areas,''.

SEC. 5. FOSSIL RIDGE RECREATION MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--(1) In order to conserve, protect, and enhance 
the scenic, wildlife, recreational, and other natural resource values of 
the Fossil Ridge area, there is hereby established the Fossil Ridge 
Recreation Management Area (hereinafter referred to as the ``recreation 
management area'').
    (2) The recreation management area shall consist of certain lands in 
the Gunnison National Forest, Colorado, which comprise approximately 
43,900 acres, as generally depicted as ``Area A'' on a map entitled 
``Fossil Ridge Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 1993.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall administer 
the recreation management area in accordance with this section and the 
laws and regulations generally applicable to the National Forest System.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all lands within 
the recreation management area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of 
entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition 
under the mineral and geothermal leasing laws, including all amendments 
thereto.
    (d) Timber Harvesting.--No timber harvesting shall be allowed within 
the recreation management area except to the extent that would be 
permitted in wilderness under section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act for 
necessary control of fire, insects, and diseases, and for public safety.
    (e) Livestock Grazing.--The designation of the recreation management 
area shall not be construed to prohibit, or change the administration 
of, the grazing of livestock within the recreation management area.
    (f) Development.--No developed campgrounds shall be constructed 
within the recreation management area. After the date of enactment of 
this Act, no new roads or trails may be constructed within the 
recreation management area.
    (g) Off-Road Recreation.--Motorized travel shall be permitted within 
the recreation management area only on those established trails and 
routes existing as of July 1, 1991, on which such travel was permitted 
as of such date, except that other trails and routes may be used where 
necessary for administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency. No 
later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall identify such routes and trails and shall prepare and 
make available to the public a map showing such routes and trails. 
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as precluding the 
Secretary from closing any trail or route from use for purposes of 
resource protection or public safety.

SEC. 6. BOWEN GULCH PROTECTION AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--(1) There is hereby established in the Arapaho 
National Forest, Colorado, the Bowen Gulch Protection Area (hereinafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``protection area'').
    (2) The protection area shall consist of certain lands in the 
Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, which comprise approximately 11,600 
acres, as generally depicted as ``Area A'' on a map entitled ``Bowen 
Gulch Additions to Never Summer Wilderness Proposal'', dated January, 
1993.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the protection 
area in accordance with this section and the laws and regulations 
generally applicable to the National Forest System.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all lands within 
the protection area are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, 
appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from location, 
entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under the 
mineral and geothermal leasing laws, including all amendments thereto.
    (d) Development.--No developed campgrounds shall be constructed 
within the protection area. After the date of enactment of this Act, no 
new roads or trails may be constructed within the protection area.
    (e) Timber Harvesting.--No timber harvesting shall be allowed within 
the protection area except to the extent that would be permitted in 
wilderness under section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act for necessary 
control of fire, insects, and diseases, and for public safety.
    (f) Motorized Travel.--Motorized travel shall be permitted within 
the protection area only on those designated trails and routes existing 
as of July 1, 1991, and only during periods of adequate snow cover. At 
all other times, mechanized, non-motorized travel shall be permitted 
within the protection area.
    (g) Management Plan.--During the revision of the Land and Resource 
Management Plan for the Arapaho National Forest, the Forest Service 
shall develop a management plan for the protection area, after providing 
for public comment.

SEC. 7. OTHER LANDS.

    Nothing in this Act shall affect ownership or use of lands or 
interests therein not owned by the United States or access to such lands 
available under other applicable law.

SEC. 8. WATER.

    (a) Findings, Purpose, and Definition.--(1) Congress finds that--
        (A) the lands designated as wilderness by this Act are located 
    at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on those lands, with 
    few, if any, actual or proposed water resource facilities located 
    upstream from such lands and few, if any, opportunities for 
    diversion, storage, or other uses of water occurring outside such 
    lands that would adversely affect the wilderness values of such 
    lands; and
        (B) the lands designated as wilderness by this Act are not 
    suitable for use for development of new water resource facilities, 
    or for the expansion of existing facilities; and
        (C) therefore, it is possible to provide for proper management 
    and protection of the wilderness value of such lands in ways 
    different from those utilized in other legislation designating as 
    wilderness lands not sharing the attributes of the lands designated 
    as wilderness by this Act.
    (2) The purpose of this section is to protect the wilderness values 
of the lands designated as wilderness by this Act by means other than 
those based on a Federal reserved water right.
    (3) As used in this section, the term ``water resource facility'' 
means irrigation and pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower 
projects, and transmission and other ancillary facilities, and other 
water diversion, storage, and carriage structures.
    (b) Restrictions on Rights and Disclaimer of Effect.--(1) Neither 
the Secretary of Agriculture nor the Secretary of the Interior, nor any 
other officer, employee, representative, or agent of the United States, 
nor any other person, shall assert in any court or agency, nor shall any 
court or agency consider, any claim to or for water or water rights in 
the State of Colorado, which is based on any construction of any portion 
of this Act, or the designation of any lands as wilderness by this Act, 
as constituting an express or implied reservation of water or water 
rights.
    (2)(A) Nothing in this Act shall constitute or be construed to 
constitute either an express or implied reservation of any water or 
water rights with respect to the Piedra, Roubideau, and Tabeguache areas 
identified in section 9 of this Act, or the Bowen Gulch Protection Area 
or the Fossil Ridge Recreation Management Area identified in sections 5 
and 6 of this Act.
    (B) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as a creation, 
recognition, disclaimer, relinquishment, or reduction of any water 
rights of the United States in the State of Colorado existing before the 
date of enactment of this Act, except as provided in subsection (g)(2) 
of this section.
    (C) Except as provided in subsection (g) of this section, nothing in 
this Act shall be construed as constituting an interpretation of any 
other Act or any designation made by or pursuant thereto.
    (D) Nothing in this section shall be construed as establishing a 
precedent with regard to any future wilderness designations.
    (c) New or Expanded Projects.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, on and after the date of enactment of this Act neither the 
President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the United States 
shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license or permit for the 
development of any new water resource facility within the areas 
described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act or the enlargement of 
any water resource facility within the areas described in sections 2, 5, 
6, and 9 of this Act.
    (d) Access and Operation.--(1) Subject to the provisions of this 
subsection (d), the Secretary shall allow reasonable access to water 
resource facilities in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
within the areas described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act, 
including motorized access where necessary and customarily employed on 
routes existing as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (2) Existing access routes within such areas customarily employed as 
of the date of enactment of this Act may be used, maintained, repaired, 
and replaced to the extent necessary to maintain their present function, 
design, and serviceable operation, so long as such activities have no 
increased adverse impacts on the resources and values of the areas 
described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act than existed as of the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (c) and (d), the 
Secretary shall allow water resource facilities existing on the date of 
enactment of this Act within areas described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 
of this Act to be used, operated, maintained, repaired, and replaced to 
the extent necessary for the continued exercise, in accordance with 
Colorado State law, of vested water rights adjudicated for use in 
connection with such facilities by a court of competent jurisdiction 
prior to the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That the impact of 
an existing facility on the water resources and values of the area shall 
not be increased as a result of changes in the adjudicated type of use 
of such facility as of the date of enactment of this Act.
    (4) Water resource facilities, and access routes serving such 
facilities, existing within the areas described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 
9 of this Act on the date of enactment of this Act shall be maintained 
and repaired when and to the extent necessary to prevent increased 
adverse impacts on the resources and values of the areas described in 
sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act.
    (e) Existing Projects.--Except as provided in subsections (c) and 
(d) of this section, the provisions of this Act related to the areas 
described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act, and the inclusion in 
the National Wilderness Preservation System ofP the areas described in 
section 2 of this Act, shall not be construed to affect or limit the 
use, operation, maintenance, repair, modification, or replacement of 
water resources facilities in existence on the date of enactment of this 
Act within the boundaries of the areas described in sections 2, 5, 6, 
and 9 of this Act.
    (f) Monitoring and Implementation.--The Secretaries of Agriculture 
and the Interior shall monitor the operation of and access to water 
resource facilities within the areas described in sections 2, 5, 6, and 
9 of this Act and take all steps necessary to implement the provisions 
of this section.
    (g) Interstate Compacts and North Platte River.--(1) Nothing in this 
Act, and nothing in any previous Act designating any lands as 
wilderness, shall be construed as limiting, altering, modifying, or 
amending any of the interstate compacts or equitable apportionment 
decrees that apportion water among and between the State of Colorado and 
other States. Except as expressly provided in this section, nothing in 
this Act shall affect or limit the development or use by existing and 
future holders of vested water rights of Colorado's full apportionment 
of such waters.
    (2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, neither the 
Secretary of Agriculture nor any other officer, employee, or agent of 
the United States, or any other person, shall assert in any court or 
agency of the United States or any other jurisdiction any rights, and no 
court or agency of the United States shall consider any claim or defense 
asserted by any person based upon such rights, which may be determined 
to have been established for waters of the North Platte River for 
purposes of the Platte River Wilderness Area established by Public Law 
98-550, located on the Colorado-Wyoming State boundary, to the extent 
such rights would limit the use or development of water within Colorado 
by present and future holders of vested water rights in the North Platte 
River and its tributaries, to the full extent allowed under interstate 
compact or United States Supreme Court equitable decree. Any such rights 
shall be exercised as if junior to, in a manner so as not to prevent, 
the use or development of Colorado's full entitlement to interstate 
waters of the North Platte River and its tributaries within Colorado 
allowed under interstate compact or United States Supreme Court 
equitable decree.

SEC. 9. PIEDRA, ROUBIDEAU, AND TABEGUACHE AREAS.

    (a) Areas.--The provisions of this section shall apply to the 
following areas:
        (1) Certain lands in the San Juan National Forest, Colorado, 
    comprising approximately 62,550 acres, as generally depicted on the 
    map entitled ``Piedra Area'' dated January, 1993;
        (2) Certain lands in the Uncompahgre National Forest, Colorado, 
    comprising approximately 19,650 acres, as generally depicted on the 
    map entitled ``Roubideau Area'' dated January, 1993; and
        (3) Certain lands in the Uncompahgre National Forest, Colorado, 
    and in the San Juan Resource Area administered by the Bureau of Land 
    Management, comprising approximately 17,240 acres, as generally 
    depicted on the map entitled ``Tabeguache Area'' dated January, 
    1993.
    (b) Management.--(1) Subject to valid existing rights, the areas 
described in subsection (a) are withdrawn from all forms of location, 
leasing, patent, disposition, or disposal under public land, mining, and 
mineral and geothermal leasing laws of the United States.
    (2) The areas described in subsection (a) shall not be subject to 
any obligation to further study such lands for wilderness designation.
    (3) Until Congress determines otherwise, and subject to the 
provisions of section 8 of this Act, activities within such areas shall 
be managed by the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the 
Interior, as appropriate, so as to maintain the areas' presently 
existing wilderness character and potential for inclusion in the 
National Wilderness Preservation System.
    (4) Livestock grazing in such areas shall be permitted and managed 
to the same extent and in the same manner as of the date of enactment of 
this Act. Except as provided by this Act, mechanized or motorized travel 
shall not be permitted in such areas: Provided, That the Secretary may 
permit motorized travel on trail number 535 in the San Juan National 
Forest during periods of adequate snow cover.
    (c) Data Collection.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
of the Interior, in consultation with the Colorado Water Conservation 
Board, shall compile data concerning the water resources of the areas 
described in subsection (a) and existing and proposed water resource 
facilities affecting such values.

SEC. 10. SPANISH PEAKS PLANNING AREA STUDY.

    (a) Report.--Not later than three years from the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall report to the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the United States House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate on 
the status of private property interests located within the Spanish 
Peaks planning area of the San Isabel National Forest in Colorado, as 
generally depicted on a map entitled ``Spanish Peaks Further Planning 
Area Study'', dated January, 1993.
    (b) Contents of Report.--The report required by this section shall 
identify the location of all private property situated within the 
exterior boundaries of the Spanish Peaks planning area; the nature of 
such property interests; the acreage of such private property interests; 
and the Secretary's views on whether the owners of said properties would 
be willing to enter into either a sale or exchange of these properties 
at fair market value if such a transaction became available in the near 
future.
    (c) No Authorization of Eminent Domain.--Nothing contained in this 
Act authorizes, and nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize, 
the acquisition of real property by eminent domain.
    (d) Management.--Notwithstanding the provisions of section 4(a) of 
this Act, for a period of three years from the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall manage the Spanish Peaks planning area as 
provided by section 105(c) of Public Law 96-560.

SEC. 11. PUMPING PLANT NAME CHANGE.

    The facility of the Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the 
Interior, known as the Granby Pumping Plant of the Colorado-P
Big Thompson Project, in the State of Colorado, shall hereafter be known 
as the Farr Pumping Plant. Any reference to the Granby Pumping Plant in 
any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United 
States shall be considered to be a reference to the Farr Pumping Plant.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.