[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1348 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1348

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To establish the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National 
Heritage Corridor in the State of Connecticut, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

   TITLE I--QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                                CORRIDOR

SECTION 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers 
Valley National Heritage Corridor Act of 1994''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
        (1) the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley in the State of 
    Connecticut is one of the last unspoiled and undeveloped areas in 
    the Northeastern United States and has remained largely intact, 
    including important aboriginal archaeological sites, excellent 
    water quality, beautiful rural landscapes, architecturally 
    significant mill structures and mill villages, and large acreages 
    of parks and other permanent open space;
        (2) the State of Connecticut ranks last among the 50 States in 
    the amount of federally protected park and open space lands within 
    its borders and lags far behind the other Northeastern States in 
    the amount of land set-aside for public recreation;
        (3) the beautiful rural landscapes, scenic vistas and excellent 
    water quality of the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers contain 
    significant undeveloped recreational opportunities for people 
    throughout the United States;
        (4) the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley is within a two-
    hour drive of the major metropolitan areas of New York City, 
    Hartford, Providence, Worcester, Springfield, and Boston. With the 
    President's Commission on Americans Outdoors reporting that 
    Americans are taking shorter ``closer-to-home'' vacations, the 
    Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley represents important close-by 
    recreational opportunities for significant population;
        (5) the existing mill sites and other structures throughout the 
    Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley were instrumental in the 
    development of the industrial revolution;
        (6) the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley contains a vast 
    number of discovered and unrecovered Native American and colonial 
    archaeological sites significant to the history of North America 
    and the United States;
        (7) the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley represents one of 
    the last traditional upland farming and mill village communities in 
    the Northeastern United States;
        (8) the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley played a 
    nationally significant role in the cultural evolution of the prewar 
    colonial period, leading the transformation from Puritan to Yankee, 
    the ``Great Awakening'' religious revival and early political 
    development leading up to and during the War of Independence; and
        (9) many local, regional and State agencies businesses, and 
    private citizens and the New England Governors' Conference have 
    expressed an overwhelming desire to combine forces: to work 
    cooperatively to preserve and enhance resources region-wide and 
    better plan for the future.
    SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF QUINEBAUG AND SHETUCKET RIVERS VALLEY 
      NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR; PURPOSE.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the State of 
Connecticut the Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
Corridor.
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to provide assistance 
to the State of Connecticut, its units of local and regional government 
and citizens in the development and implementation of integrated 
cultural, historical, and recreational land resource management 
programs in order to retain, enhance, and interpret the significant 
features of the lands, water, and structures of the Quinebaug and 
Shetucket Rivers Valley.

SEC. 104. BOUNDARIES AND ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Corridor shall include the 
towns of Ashford, Brooklyn, Canterbury, Chaplin, Coventry, Eastford, 
Franklin, Griswold, Hampton, Killingly, Lebanon, Lisbon, Mansfield, 
Norwich, Plainfield, Pomfret, Preston, Putnam, Scotland, Sprague, 
Sterling, Thompson, Voluntown, Windham, and Woodstock. As soon as 
practical after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
publish in the Federal Register a detailed description and map of 
boundaries established under this subsection.

SEC. 105. STATE CORRIDOR PLAN.

    (a) Preparation of Plan.--Within two years after the date of 
enactment of this title, the Governor of the State of Connecticut is 
encouraged to develop a Cultural Heritage and Corridor Management Plan. 
The plan shall be based on existing Federal, State, and local plans, 
but shall coordinate those plans and present a comprehensive historic 
preservation, interpretation, and recreational plan for the Corridor. 
The plan shall--
        (1) recommend non-binding advisory standards and criteria 
    pertaining to the construction, preservation, restoration, 
    alteration and use of properties within the Corridor, including an 
    inventory of such properties which potentially could be preserved, 
    restored, managed, developed, maintained, or acquired based upon 
    their historic, cultural or recreational significance;
        (2) develop an historic interpretation plan to interpret the 
    history of the Corridor;
        (3) develop an inventory of existing and potential recreational 
    sites which are developed or which could be developed within the 
    Corridor;
        (4) recommend policies for resource management which consider 
    and detail application of appropriate land and water management 
    techniques, including but not limited to, the development of 
    intergovernmental cooperative agreements to protect the Corridor's 
    historical, cultural, recreational, scenic, and natural resources 
    in a manner consistent with supporting appropriate and compatible 
    economic revitalization efforts;
        (5) detail ways in which local, State, and Federal programs may 
    best be coordinated to promote the purposes of this title; and
        (6) contain a program for implementation of the plan by the 
    State and its political subdivisions.
    (b) Public Involvement in Plan Development.--During development of 
the plan, the Governor is encouraged to include:
        (1) The participation of at least the following:
            (A) Local elected officials in the communities defined in 
        section 104.
            (B) Representatives of the three Regional Planning Agencies 
        as defined in section 108.
            (C) Representatives of Northeast Connecticut Visitors 
        District and Southeastern Connecticut Tourism District.
            (D) The Commissioners, or their designees, of the 
        Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection and the 
        Connecticut Department of Economic Development.
            (E) Director, or his designee of the Connecticut State 
        Historical Commission.
            (F) Residents of the communities within the Corridor as 
        defined in section 104.
        (2) Hold at least one public hearing in each of the following 
    counties: Windham; Tolland; and New London.
        (3) Consider, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
    recommendations, comments, proposals and other information 
    submitted at the public hearings when developing the final version 
    of the plan. The Governor is encouraged to publish notice of 
    hearings discussed in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph in 
    newspapers of general circulation at least 30 days prior to the 
    hearing date. The Governor is encouraged to use any other means 
    authorized by Connecticut law to gather public input and/or involve 
    members of the public in the development of the plan.
    (c) Implementation of Plan.--After review of the plan by the 
Secretary as provided for in section 106, the Governor shall implement 
the plan. Upon the request of the Governor, the Secretary may take 
appropriate steps to assist in the preservation and interpretation of 
historic resources, and to assist in the development of recreational 
resources within the Corridor. These steps may include, but need not be 
limited to--
        (1) assisting the State and local governmental entities or 
    regional planning organizations, and non-profit organizations in 
    preserving the Corridor and ensuring appropriate use of lands and 
    structures throughout the Corridor;
        (2) assisting the State and local governmental entities or 
    regional planning organizations, and non-profit organizations in 
    establishing and maintaining visitor centers and other interpretive 
    exhibits in the Corridor;
        (3) assisting the State and local governmental entities or 
    regional planning organizations, and non-profit organizations in 
    developing recreational programs and resources in the Corridor;
        (4) assisting the State and local governmental entities or 
    regional planning organizations, and non-profit organizations in 
    increasing public awareness of and appreciation for the historical 
    and architectural resources and sites in the Corridor;
        (5) assisting the State and local governmental or regional 
    planning organizations and non-profit organizations in the 
    restoration of historic buildings within the Corridor identified 
    pursuant to the inventory required in section 5(a)(1);
        (6) encouraging by appropriate means enhanced economic and 
    industrial development in the Corridor consistent with the goals of 
    the plan;
        (7) encouraging local governments to adopt land use policies 
    consistent with the management of the Corridor and the goals of the 
    plan; and
        (8) assisting the State and local governmental entities or 
    regional planning organizations to ensure that clear, consistent 
    signs identifying access points and sites of interest are put in 
    place throughout the Corridor.

SEC. 106. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Assistance.--The Secretary and the heads of other Federal 
agencies shall, upon request of the Governor assist the Governor in the 
preparation and implementation of the plan.
    (b) Completion.--Upon completion of the plan the Governor shall 
submit such plan to the Secretary for review and comment. The Secretary 
shall complete such review and comment within 60 days. The Governor 
shall make such changes in the plan as he deems appropriate based on 
the Secretary's review and comment.

SEC. 107. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    Any Federal entity conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the Corridor shall consult with the Secretary and the 
Governor with respect to such activities to minimize any adverse effect 
on the Corridor.

SEC. 108. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this title:
        (1) The term ``State'' means the State of Connecticut.
        (2) The term ``Corridor'' means the Quinebaug and Shetucket 
    Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor under section 3.
        (3) The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of the State of 
    Connecticut.
        (4) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior.
        (5) The term ``regional planning organizations'' means each of 
    the three regional planning organizations established by 
    Connecticut State statute chapter 127 and chapter 50 (the 
    Northeastern Connecticut Council of Governments, the Windham 
    Regional Planning Agency or its successor, and the Southeastern 
    Connecticut Regional Planning Agency or its successor).

SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to the appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this title: Provided, That not more than 
$200,000 shall be appropriated for fiscal year 1995, and not more than 
$250,000 annually thereafter shall be appropriated for the Secretary to 
carry out his duties under this title for a period not to exceed seven 
years: Provided further, That the Federal funding for the Corridor 
shall not exceed 50 percent of the total annual costs for the Corridor.

SEC. 110. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.

    The Corridor shall not be deemed to be a unit of the National Park 
System.

          TITLE II--WEIR FARM NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE ADDITIONS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Weir Farm National Historic Site 
Expansion Act of 1994''.

SEC. 202. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to preserve the last remaining 
undeveloped parcels of the historic Weir Farm that remain in private 
ownership by including the parcels within the boundary of the Weir Farm 
National Historic Site.

SEC. 203. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Adjustment.--Section 4(b) of the Weir Farm National Historic 
Site Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-485; 104 Stat. 1171) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking out ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
        (2) by striking out the flush material below paragraph (2); and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) the approximately 2-acre parcel of land situated in the 
    town of Wilton, Connecticut, designated as lot 18 on a map entitled 
    `Revised Map of Section I, Thunder Lake at Wilton, Connecticut, 
    Scale 1,=100,, October 27, 1978, Ryan and Faulds Land Surveyors, 
    Wilton, Connecticut', that is on file in the office of the town 
    clerk of the town of Wilton, and therein numbered 3673; and
        ``(4) the approximately 0.9-acre western portion of a parcel of 
    land situated in the town of Wilton, Connecticut, designated as 
    Tall Oaks Road on the map referred to in paragraph (3).''.
    (b) General Depiction.--Section 4 of such Act, as amended by 
subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) General Depiction.--The parcels referred to in paragraphs (1) 
through (4) of subsection (b) are all as generally depicted on a map 
entitled `Boundary Map, Weir Farm National Historic Site, Fairfield 
County Connecticut', dated June 1994. Such map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service.''.

          TITLE III--CANE RIVER CREOLE NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    Titles III and IV of this Act may be cited as the ``Cane River 
Creole National Historical Park and National Heritage Area Act''.

SEC. 302. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
        (1) the Natchitoches area along Cane River, established in 
    1714, is the oldest permanent settlement in the Louisiana Purchase 
    territory;
        (2) the Cane River area is the locale of the development of 
    Creole culture, from French-Spanish interactions of the early 18th 
    century of today's living communities;
        (3) the Cane River, historically a segment of the Red River, 
    provided the focal point for early settlement, serving as a 
    transportation route upon which commerce and communication reached 
    all parts of the colony;
        (4) although a number of Creole structures, sites, and 
    landscapes exist in Louisiana and elsewhere, unlike the Cane River 
    area, most are isolated examples, and lack original outbuilding 
    complexes or integrity;
        (5) the Cane River area includes a great variety of historical 
    features with original elements in both rural and urban settings 
    and a cultural landscape that represents various aspects of Creole 
    culture, providing the base for a holistic approach to 
    understanding the broad continuum of history within the region;
        (6) the Cane River region includes the Natchitoches National 
    Historic Landmark District, composed of approximately 300 publicly 
    and privately owned properties, four other national historic 
    landmarks, and other structures and sites that may meet criteria 
    for landmark significance following further study;
        (7) historic preservation within the Cane River area has 
    greatly benefitted from individuals and organizations that have 
    strived to protect their heritage and educate others about their 
    rich history; and
        (8) because of the complexity and magnitude of preservation 
    needs in the Cane River area, and the vital need for a culturally 
    sensitive approach, a partnership approach is desirable for 
    addressing the many preservation and educational needs.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of titles III and IV of this Act are 
to--
        (1) recognize the importance of the Cane River Creole culture 
    as a nationally significant element of the cultural heritage of the 
    United States;
        (2) establish a Cane River Creole National Historical Park to 
    serve as the focus of interpretive and educational programs on the 
    history of the Cane River area and to assist in the preservation of 
    certain historic sites along the river; and
        (3) establish a Cane River National Heritage Area and 
    Commission to be undertaken in partnership with the State of 
    Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, local communities and 
    settlements of the Cane River area, preservation organizations, and 
    private landowners, with full recognition that programs must fully 
    involve the local communities and landowners.
    SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF CANE RIVER CREOLE NATIONAL HISTORICAL 
      PARK.
    (a) In General.--In order to assist in the preservation and 
interpretation of, and education concerning, the Creole culture and 
diverse history of the Natchitoches region, and to provide technical 
assistance to a broad range of public and private landowners and 
preservation organizations, there is hereby established the Cane River 
Creole National Historical Park in the State of Louisiana (hereinafter 
in titles III and IV of this Act referred to as the ``historical 
park'').
    (b) Area Included.--The historical park shall consist of lands and 
interests therein as follows:
        (1) Lands and structures associated with the Oakland Plantation 
    as depicted on map CARI, 80,002, dated January 1994.
        (2) Lands and structures owned or acquired by Museum Contents, 
    Inc. as depicted on map CARI, 80,001A, dated May 1994.
        (3) Sites that may be the subject of cooperative agreements 
    with the National Park Service for the purposes of historic 
    preservation and interpretation including, but not limited to, the 
    Melrose Plantation, the Badin-Rouge site, the Cherokee Plantation, 
    the Beau Fort Plantation, and sites within the Natchitoches 
    National Historical Landmark District: Provided, That such sites 
    may not be added to the historical park unless the Secretary of the 
    Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') determines, 
    based on further research and planning, that such sites meet the 
    applicable criteria for national historical significance, 
    suitability, and feasibility, and notification of the proposed 
    addition has been transmitted to the Committee on Energy and 
    Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the appropriate 
    committees of the House of Representatives.
        (4) Not to exceed 10 acres of land that the Secretary may 
    designate for an interpretive visitor center complex to serve the 
    needs of the historical park and heritage area established in title 
    IV of this Act.

SEC. 304. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the historical park 
in accordance with this title and with provisions of law generally 
applicable to units of the National Park System, including the Act 
entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4); 
and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666, 16 U.S.C. 461-467). The 
Secretary shall manage the historical park in such a manner as will 
preserve resources and cultural landscapes relating to the Creole 
culture of the Cane River and enhance public understanding of the 
important cultural heritage of the Cane River region.
    (b) Donations.--The Secretary may accept and retain donations of 
funds, property, or services from individuals, foundations, or other 
public or private entities for the purposes of providing programs, 
services, facilities, or technical assistance that further the purposes 
of titles III and IV of this Act. Any funds donated to the Secretary 
pursuant to this subsection may be expended without further 
appropriation.
    (c) Interpretive Center.--The Secretary is authorized to construct, 
operate, and maintain an interpretive center on lands identified by the 
Secretary pursuant to section 303(b)(4). Such center shall provide for 
the general information and orientation needs of the historical park 
and the heritage area. The Secretary shall consult with the State of 
Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, the Association for the 
Preservation of Historic Natchitoches, and the Cane River National 
Heritage Area Commission pursuant to section 402 of this Act in the 
planning and development of the interpretive center.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements and Technical Assistance.--(1) The 
Secretary, after consultation with the Cane River Heritage Area 
Commission established pursuant to section 402 of this Act, is 
authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with owners of 
properties within the heritage area and owners of properties within the 
historical park that provide important educational and interpretive 
opportunities relating to the heritage of the Cane River region. The 
Secretary may also enter into cooperative agreements for the purpose of 
facilitating the preservation of important historic sites and 
structures identified in the historical park's general management plan 
or other heritage elements related to the heritage of the Cane River 
region. Such cooperative agreements shall specify that the National 
Park Service shall have reasonable rights of access for operational and 
visitor use needs and that preservation treatments will meet the 
Secretary's standards for rehabilitation of historic buildings.
    (2) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
agreements with the City of Natchitoches, the State of Louisiana, and 
other public or private organizations for the development of the 
interpretive center, educational programs, and other materials that 
will facilitate public use of the historical park and heritage area.
    (e) Research.--The Secretary, acting through the National Park 
Service, shall coordinate a comprehensive research program on the 
complex history of the Cane River region, including ethnography studies 
of the living communities along the Cane River, and how past and 
present generations have adapted to their environment, including 
genealogical studies of families within the Cane River area. Research 
shall include, but not be limited to, the extensive primary historic 
documents within the Natchitoches and Cane River areas, and curation 
methods for their care and exhibition. The research program shall be 
coordinated with Northwestern State University of Louisiana, and the 
National Center for Preservation of Technology and Training in 
Natchitoches.

SEC. 305. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.

    (a) General Authority.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
section, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and interest 
therein within the boundaries of the historical park by donation, 
purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (b) State and Local Properties.--Lands and interests therein that 
are owned by the State of Louisiana, or any political subdivision 
thereof, may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
    (c) Museum Contents, Inc.--Lands and structures identified in 
section 303(b)(2) may be acquired only by donation.
    (d) Cooperative Agreement Sites.--Lands and interests therein that 
are the subject of cooperative agreements pursuant to section 303(b)(3) 
shall not be acquired except with the consent of the owner thereof.

SEC. 306. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    Within 3 years after the date funds are made available therefor and 
in consultation with the Cane River Heritage Area Commission, the 
National Park Service shall prepare a general management plan for the 
historical park. The plan shall include, but need not be limited to--
        (1) a visitor use plan indicating programs and facilities that 
    will be provided for public use, including the location and cost of 
    an interpretive center;
        (2) programs and management actions that the National Park 
    Service will undertake cooperatively with the heritage area 
    commission, including preservation treatments for important sites, 
    structures, objects, and research materials. Planning shall address 
    educational media, roadway signing, and brochures that could be 
    coordinated with the Commission pursuant to section 403 of this 
    Act; and
        (3) preservation and use plans for any sites and structures 
    that are identified for National Park Service involvement through 
    cooperative agreements.

              TITLE IV--CANE RIVER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

    SEC. 401. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CANE RIVER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Cane River 
National Heritage Area (hereinafter in this title referred to as the 
``heritage area'').
    (b) Purpose.--In furtherance of the need to recognize the value and 
importance of the Cane River region and in recognition of the findings 
of section 302(a) of this Act, it is the purpose of this title to 
establish a heritage area to complement the historical park and to 
provide for a culturally sensitive approach to the preservation of the 
heritage of the Cane River region, and for other needs including--
        (1) recognizing areas important to the Nation's heritage and 
    identity;
        (2) assisting in the preservation and enhancement of the 
    cultural landscape and traditions of the Cane River region;
        (3) providing a framework for those who live within this 
    important dynamic cultural landscape to assist in preservation and 
    educational actions; and
        (4) minimizing the need for Federal land acquisition and 
    management.
    (c) Area Included.--The heritage area shall include--
        (1) an area approximately 1 mile on both sides of the Cane 
    River as depicted on map CARI, 80,000A, dated May 1994;
        (2) those properties within the Natchitoches National Historic 
    Landmark District which are the subject of cooperative agreements 
    pursuant to section 304(d) of this Act;
        (3) the Los Adaes State Commemorative Area;
        (4) the Fort Jesup State Commemorative Area;
        (5) the Fort St. Jean Baptiste State Commemorative Area; and
        (6) the Kate Chopin House.
    A final identification of all areas and sites to be included in the 
heritage area shall be included in the heritage area management plan as 
required in section 403.

SEC. 402. CANE RIVER NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--To assist in implementing the purposes of 
titles II and III of this Act and to provide guidance for the 
management of the heritage area, there is established the Cane River 
National Heritage Area Commission (hereinafter in this title referred 
to as the ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of 19 members to be 
appointed no later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this 
title. The Commission shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows--
        (1) one member from recommendations submitted by the Mayor of 
    Natchitoches;
        (2) one member from recommendations submitted by the 
    Association for the Preservation of Historic Natchitoches;
        (3) one member from recommendations submitted by the 
    Natchitoches Historic Foundation, Inc.;
        (4) two members with experience in and knowledge of tourism in 
    the heritage area from recommendations submitted by local business 
    and tourism organizations;
        (5) one member from recommendations submitted by the Governor 
    of the State of Louisiana;
        (6) one member from recommendations submitted by the Police 
    Jury of Natchitoches Parish;
        (7) one member from recommendations submitted by the Concern 
    Citizens of Cloutierville;
        (8) one member from recommendations submitted by the St. 
    Augustine Historical Society;
        (9) one member from recommendations submitted by the Black 
    Heritage Committee;
        (10) one member from recommendations submitted by the Los 
    Adaes/Robeline Community;
        (11) one member from recommendations submitted by the 
    Natchitoches Historic District Commission;
        (12) one member from recommendations submitted by the Cane 
    River Waterway Commission;
        (13) two members who are landowners in and residents of the 
    heritage area;
        (14) one member with experience and knowledge of historic 
    preservation from recommendations submitted by the Museum Contents, 
    Inc.;
        (15) one member with experience and knowledge of historic 
    preservation from recommendations submitted by the President of 
    Northwestern State University of Louisiana;
        (16) one member with experience in and knowledge of 
    environmental, recreational and conservation matters affecting the 
    heritage area from recommendations submitted by the Natchitoches 
    Sportsmans Association and other local recreational and 
    environmental organizations; and
        (17) the director of the National Park Service, or the 
    Director's designee, ex officio.
    (c) Duties of the Commission.--The Commission shall--
        (1) prepare a management plan for the heritage area in 
    consultation with the National Park Service, the State of 
    Louisiana, the City of Natchitoches, Natchitoches Parish, 
    interested groups, property owners, and the public;
        (2) consult with the Secretary on the preparation of the 
    general management plan for the historical park;
        (3) develop cooperative agreements with property owners, 
    preservation groups, educational groups, the State of Louisiana, 
    the City of Natchitoches, universities, and tourism groups, and 
    other groups to further the purposes of titles III and IV of this 
    Act; and
        (4) identify appropriate entities, such as a non-profit 
    corporation, that could be established to assume the 
    responsibilities of the Commission following its termination.
    (d) Powers of the Commission.--In furtherance of the purposes of 
titles III and IV of this Act, the Commission is authorized to--
        (1) procure temporary and intermittent services to the same 
    extent that is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
    States Code, but at rates determined by the Commission to be 
    reasonable;
        (2) accept the services of personnel detailed from the State of 
    Louisiana or any political subdivision thereof, and may reimburse 
    the State or political subdivision for such services;
        (3) upon the request of the Commission, the head of any Federal 
    agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of 
    such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying 
    out its duties;
        (4) appoint and fix the compensation of such staff as may be 
    necessary to carry out its duties. Staff shall be appointed subject 
    to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
    appointments in the competitive service, and shall be paid in 
    accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
    chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General 
    Schedule pay rates;
        (5) enter into cooperative agreements with public or private 
    individuals or entities for research, historic preservation, and 
    education purposes;
        (6) make grants to assist in the preparation of studies that 
    identify, preserve, and plan for the management of the heritage 
    area;
        (7) notwithstanding any other provision of law, seek and accept 
    donations of funds or services from individuals, foundations, or 
    other public or private entities and expend the same for the 
    purposes of providing services and programs in furtherance of the 
    purposes of titles III and IV of this Act;
        (8) assist others in developing educational, informational, and 
    interpretive programs and facilities;
        (9) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, 
    take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission 
    may consider appropriate; and
        (10) use the United States mails in the same manner and under 
    the same conditions as other departments or agencies of the United 
    States.
    (e) Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall receive no 
compensation for their service on the Commission. While away from their 
homes or regular places of business in the performance of services for 
the Commission, members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per 
diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed 
intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses under 
section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (f) Chairman.--The Commission shall elect a chairman from among its 
members. The term of the chairman shall be for 3 years.
    (g) Terms.--The terms of Commission members shall be for 3 years. 
Any member of the Commission appointed by the Secretary for a 3-year 
term may serve after expiration of his or her term until a successor is 
appointed. Any vacancy shall be filled in the same manner in which the 
original appointment was made. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy 
shall serve for the remainder of the term for which the predecessor was 
appointed.
    (h) Annual Reports.--The Commission shall submit an annual report 
to the Secretary identifying its expenses and any income, the entities 
to which any grants or technical assistance were made during the year 
for which the report is made, and actions that are planned for the 
following year.

SEC. 403. PREPARATION OF THE PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Within 3 years after the Commission conducts its 
first meeting, it shall prepare and submit a heritage area management 
plan to the Governor of the State of Louisiana. The Governor shall, if 
the Governor approves the plan, submit it to the Secretary for review 
and approval. The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to the 
Commission in the preparation and implementation of the plan, in 
concert with actions by the National Park Service to prepare a general 
management plan for the historical park. The plan shall consider local 
government plans and shall present a unified heritage preservation and 
education plan for the heritage area. The plan shall include, but not 
be limited to--
        (1) an inventory of important properties and cultural 
    landscapes that should be preserved, managed, developed, and 
    maintained because of their cultural, natural, and public use 
    significance;
        (2) an analysis of current land uses within the area and how 
    they affect the goals of preservation and public use of the 
    heritage area;
        (3) an interpretive plan to address the cultural and natural 
    history of the area, and actions to enhance visitor use. This 
    element of the plan shall be undertaken in consultation with the 
    National Park Service and visitor use plans for the historical 
    park;
        (4) recommendations for coordinating actions by local, State, 
    and Federal governments within the heritage area, to further the 
    purposes of titles III and IV of this Act; and
        (5) an implementation program for the plan including desired 
    actions by State and local governments and other involved groups 
    and entities.
    (b) Approval of the Plan.--The Secretary shall approve or 
disapprove the plan within 90 days after receipt of the plan from the 
Commission. The Commission shall notify the Secretary of the status of 
approval by the Governor of Louisiana when the plan is submitted for 
review and approval. In determining whether or not to approve the plan 
the Secretary shall consider--
        (1) whether the Commission has afforded adequate opportunity, 
    including public meetings and hearings, for public and governmental 
    involvement in the preparation of the plan; and
        (2) whether reasonable assurances have been received from the 
    State and local governments that the plan is supported and that the 
    implementation program is feasible.
    (c) Disapproval of the Plan.--If the Secretary disapproves the 
plan, he shall advise the Commission in writing of the reasons for 
disapproval, and shall provide recommendations and assistance in the 
revision plan. Following completion of any revisions to the plan, the 
Commission shall resubmit the plan to the Governor of Louisiana for 
approval, and to the Secretary, who shall approve or disapprove the 
plan within 90 days after the date that the plan is revised.

SEC. 404. TERMINATION OF HERITAGE AREA COMMISSION.

    (a) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on the day 
occurring 10 years after the first official meeting of the Commission.
    (b) Extension.--The Commission may petition to be extended for a 
period of not more than 5 years beginning on the day referred to in 
subsection (a), provided the Commission determines a critical need to 
fulfill the purposes of titles III and IV of this Act; and the 
Commission obtains approval from the Secretary, in consultation with 
the Governor of Louisiana.
    (c) Heritage Area Management Following Termination of the 
Commission.--The national heritage area status for the Cane River 
region shall continue following the termination of the Commission. The 
management plan, and partnerships and agreements subject to the plan 
shall guide the future management of the heritage area. The Commission, 
prior to its termination, shall recommend to the Governor of the State 
of Louisiana and the Secretary, appropriate entities, including the 
potential for a nonprofit corporation, to assume the responsibilities 
of the Commission.

SEC. 405. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    Any Federal entity conducting or supporting activities directly 
affecting the heritage area shall--
        (1) consult with the Secretary and the Commission with respect 
    to implementation of their proposed actions; and
        (2) to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate such 
    activities with the Commission to minimize potential impacts on the 
    resources of the heritage area.

SEC. 406. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out titles III and IV of this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.