[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3050 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3050

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To expand the boundaries of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation 
Area.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    Section 3(a)(2) of the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-1(a)(2)) is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(2) The conservation area shall consist of approximately 195,610 
acres as generally depicted on a map entitled `Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area--Proposed Expansion', numbered NV-RRCNCA-002, and 
dated July 1994.''.
SEC. 2. OTHER AMENDMENTS TO THE RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION 
AREA ESTABLISHMENT ACT OF 1990.
    (a) Deadline for Management Plan.--Section 5(a)(1) of the Red Rock 
Canyon National Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 
460ccc-3(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``Within 3 full fiscal years 
following the fiscal year in which the date of enactment of this Act 
occurs,'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``No later than January 1, 
1997,''.
    (b) Exchange Authority.--Section 7 of the Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-5) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Except as specifically authorized'' and 
    inserting in lieu thereof ``(a) Except as specifically 
    authorized''; and
        (2) by adding at the end thereof a new subsection, as follows:
    ``(b) The Secretary may transfer to the owner of the Old Nevada 
recreation facility the approximately 20 acres of Federal lands within 
the conservation area which, on March 1, 1994, were used to provide 
parking for visitors to such facility, in exchange for lands of equal 
or greater value within the conservation area acceptable to the 
Secretary.''.
    (c) Priority Dates.--Section 10(b) of the Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-8(b)) is 
amended by striking ``Act.'' and by inserting in lieu thereof ``Act, 
except that as related to rights associated with lands added to the 
conservation area after such date, the priority date shall be the date 
of enactment of the Act adding such lands to the conservation area.''.

SEC. 3. POTENTIAL CONSERVATION LANDS.

    (a) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the lands 
identified in subsection (b) are hereby withdrawn from all forms of 
entry under the public land laws, including the mining laws, and from 
operation of the mineral and geothermal leasing laws: Provided, That 
nothing in this subsection shall limit the issuance of any necessary 
licenses or public land rights-of-way for any hydroelectric project 
involving such lands.
    (b) Lands.--The lands referred to in subsection (a) are the 
approximately 1,280 acres of public lands as generally depicted on the 
map entitled ``Potential Conservation Lands: Possible Hydroelectric 
Project'' dated July, 1994.
    (c) Future Status.--(1) Effective on the date 5 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the lands described in subsection (b) 
shall be added to the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area unless 
before such effective date all necessary licenses and public land 
rights-of-way have been issued for a hydroelectric project involving 
some or all of such lands.
    (2) For purposes of section 10(b) of the Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990, as amended by this Act, 
the date on which the lands identified in subsection (b) of this 
section are added to the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
shall be deemed to be the date of enactment of an Act adding such lands 
to the conservation area.

SEC. 4. AUSTIN, NEVADA MUSEUM.

    (a) Lands.--The Austin Historic Mining District Historical Society 
(hereafter referred to as ``the Historical Society'') shall be 
permitted to use the lands located in Austin, Nevada, identified as 
township 19 North, range 44 East, section 19, block 38, lots 1 through 
16, assessor's parcel number 01-147-01, amounting to approximately 0.59 
acres, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
    (b) Uses.--The Historical Society's use of the lands identified in 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the requirements of this section and 
shall be limited to use for a museum or other facility to illustrate 
the history of the Austin Historic Mining District.
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--(1) The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
permit the Historical Society to use the lands identified in subsection 
(a) for a period of 20 years after the date of enactment of this Act. 
After such period, the Historical Society may continue to use such 
lands, at the discretion of the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (2) During the period of 20 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Historical Society, if it elects to use the lands 
identified in subsection (a), shall pay to the Secretary of 
Agriculture, on behalf of the United States, an annual rental of $100.
    (3) If the Secretary of Agriculture permits continued use of the 
lands identified in subsection (a) after the end of the period of 20 
years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall require payment of such annual rental as the 
Secretary determines reasonable.
    (4) At all times that the lands identified in subsection (a) are 
used by the Historical Society, the Historical Society shall be solely 
responsible for all necessary maintenance and repairs of all structures 
and improvements on such lands and for all necessary payments for 
utilities or other services.
    (5) All rentals received by the Secretary of Agriculture under this 
section shall be deemed to have been deposited with such Secretary 
pursuant to the Act of December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a).







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.