[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4581 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.4581

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act


 
 To provide for the imposition of temporary fees in connection with the 
  handling of complaints of violations of the Perishable Agricultural 
                         Commodities Act, 1930.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FILING AND HANDLING FEES FOR COMPLAINTS OF VIOLATIONS OF 
PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES ACT, 1930.
    (a) Temporary Filing Fee Required.--During fiscal years 1995 and 
1996, the Secretary of Agriculture shall require persons who submit 
petitions to the Secretary under section 6(a) of the Perishable 
Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 499f(a)), alleging a 
violation of section 2 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 499b), to include a filing 
fee of $60 per petition.
    (b) Temporary Handling Fee Required.--During fiscal years 1995 and 
1996, if the Secretary determines under section 6(a) of the Perishable 
Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 499f(a)), that the facts 
contained in a petition described in such section warrant further 
action, the person or persons submitting the petition shall submit to 
the Secretary a handling fee of $300. The Secretary may not forward a 
copy of the complaint to the commission merchant, dealer, or broker 
involved until after the Secretary receives the required handling fee. 
In determining the amount of damages incurred by an injured person or 
persons preparatory to issuing a reparation order under section 7 of 
such Act (7 U.S.C. 499g), the Secretary shall include the amount of any 
handling fee paid by the injured person or persons under this 
subsection.
    (c) Deposit of Fees.--The Secretary shall deposit fees submitted 
under this section into the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act 
Fund.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.