[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2457 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2457

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a salmon captive 
broodstock program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Winter Run Chinook Salmon Captive 
Broodstock Act of 1993''.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF SALMON CAPTIVE BROODSTOCK PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary of the 
Interior (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') 
shall conduct in accordance with this section a salmon captive 
broodstock program (hereinafter in this section referred to as the 
``Program'').
    (b) Program.--The Program shall be carried out in a manner that is 
consistent with the goals, priorities, and policies set forth in any 
recovery plan for winter run Chinook salmon in the Sacramento River 
developed by the National Marine Fisheries Service under the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973, and with findings of consultations regarding that 
population of salmon carried out pursuant to section 7 of that Act.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with the Winter Run 
Chinook Salmon Captive Broodstock Committee (a committee identified in 
the document entitled ``Biological Assessment on the Effects of Coleman 
National Fish Hatchery Operations on Winter Run Chinook Salmon'', 
prepared by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service) in making 
management decisions regarding the Program.
    (d) State Matching.--The Secretary may not implement this section 
unless not less than 20 percent of amounts necessary to conduct the 
Program are provided by non-Federal sources.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to conduct the Program $1,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.