[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3321 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3321
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
   To provide increased flexibility to States in carrying out the Low-
                 Income Home Energy Assistance Program.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. INCREASED STATE FLEXIBILITY IN THE LOW-INCOME HOME ENERGY 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 927 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 
(Public Law 102-550) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking the parenthetical phrase; and
            (B) by inserting before the period ``, except as provided in 
        subsection (d)'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``such'' and inserting in lieu thereof ``or 
        receiving energy''; and
            (B) by inserting before the period ``for any program in 
        which eligibility or benefits are based on need, except as 
        provided in subsection (d)''; and
        (3) by inserting at the end thereof the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Special Rule for Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program.--
For purposes of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program, tenants 
described in subsection (a)(2) who are responsible for paying some or 
all heating or cooling costs shall not have their eligibility 
automatically denied. A State may consider the amount of the heating or 
cooling component of utility allowances received by tenants described in 
subsection (a)(2) when setting benefit levels under the Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program. The size of any reduction in Low-Income Home 
Energy Assistance Program benefits must be reasonably related to the 
amount of the heating or cooling component of the utility allowance 
received and must ensure that the highest level of assistance will be 
furnished to those households with the lowest incomes and the highest 
energy costs in relation to income, taking into account family size, in 
compliance with section 2605(b)(5) of the Low-Income Home Energy 
Assistance Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 8624(b)(5)).''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.