[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1779 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1779

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located 
at 401 South Washington Street in Chillicothe, Missouri, as the ``Jerry 
L. Litton United States Post Office Building'', and to authorize travel 
and transportation expenses for certain Federal career appointees, and 
for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DESIGNATION.

    The facility of the United States Postal Service located at 401 
South Washington Street in Chillicothe, Missouri, is designated as the 
``Jerry L. Litton United States Post Office Building''.

SEC. 2. LEGAL REFERENCES.

    Any reference in a law, regulation, document, record, map, or other 
paper of the United States to the facility referred to in section 1 is 
deemed to be a reference to the ``Jerry L. Litton United States Post 
Office Building''.
SEC. 3. TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES OF CERTAIN FEDERAL CAREER 
APPOINTEES.
    (a) In General.--Section 5724(a)(3) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended by striking out ``November 27, 1988'' and inserting in lieu 
thereof ``November 17, 1988''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the Technical and Miscellaneous Civil 
Service Amendments Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-378; 106 Stat. 1346; 5 
U.S.C. 1101 note).
SEC. 4. TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION EXPENSES FOR FAMILY MEMBERS OF CAREER 
APPOINTEES.
    Paragraph (3) of section 5724(a) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) upon the separation (or death in service) of a career 
    appointee, as defined in section 3132(a)(4) of this title, the 
    travel expenses of that individual (if applicable), the 
    transportation expenses of the immediate family of such individual, 
    and the expenses of moving (including transporting, packing, 
    crating, temporarily storing, draying, and unpacking) the household 
    goods of such individual and personal effects not in excess of 
    eighteen thousand pounds net weight, to the place where the 
    individual will reside (or, in the case of a career appointee who 
    dies in service or who dies after separating but before the travel, 
    transportation, and moving is completed, to the place where the 
    family will reside) within the United States, its territories or 
    possessions, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the areas and 
    installations in the Republic of Panama made available to the 
    United States pursuant to the Panama Canal Treaty of 1977 and 
    related agreements, as described in section 3(a) of the Panama 
    Canal Act of 1979, if such individual--
            ``(A) during or after the five years preceding eligibility 
        to receive an annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83, or of 
        chapter 84 of this title, has been transferred in the interest 
        of the Government from one official station to another for 
        permanent duty as a career appointee in the Senior Executive 
        Service or as a director under section 4103(a)(8) of title 38 
        (as in effect on November 17, 1988); and
            ``(B) is eligible to receive an annuity upon such 
        separation (or, in the case of death in service, met the 
        requirements for being considered eligible to receive an 
        annuity, as of date of death) under the provisions of 
        subchapter III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of this title.''.

SEC. 5. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) In General.--This Act and the amendment made by this Act shall 
take effect on October 1, 1994, or, if later, the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (b) Special Rule.--
        (1) In general.--Under regulations prescribed by the President 
    or his designee, an agency shall, as appropriate, pay or make 
    reimbursement for any moving expenses which would be payable under 
    the provisions of section 5724(a)(3) of title 5, United States 
    Code, as amended by section 4 (but which would not have been 
    payable under such provisions, as last in effect before being so 
    amended).
        (2) Applicability.--The moving expenses to which this 
    subsection applies are those incurred by the family of an 
    individual who died--
            (i) before separating from Government service; and
            (ii) during the period beginning on January 1, 1994, and 
        ending on the effective date of this Act.
        (3) Condition.--Payment or reimbursement under this subsection 
    may not be made except upon appropriate written application 
    submitted within 12 months after the date on which the regulations 
    referred to in paragraph (1) take effect.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.