[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 328 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.328
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey certain lands to the 
town of

                            Taos, New Mexico.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION. 1. TAOS RANGER DISTRICT.

    (a) Conveyance of Property.--Not later than 6 months after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey by 
quit-claim deed to the town of Taos, New Mexico, subject to the terms 
and conditions stated in subsection (b), all right, title, and interest 
of the United States in and to the land and improvements thereon 
described as follows:
        That property locally referred to as the ``Old Taos Ranger 
    District Office and Warehouse'' located in the town of Taos, Taos 
    County, New Mexico, containing approximately 0.633 acres, 
    specifically described in that certain warranty deed dated January 
    22, 1937, by William T. and Mary E. Hinde, husband and wife, to the 
    United States, as recorded on January 23, 1937, in book A-34, page 
    415, of the Record of Deeds of Taos County, New Mexico.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--
        (1) Consideration.--The conveyance described in subsection (a) 
    shall be in consideration of the amount of $360,000, payable in full 
    within the 6-month period referred to in subsection (a), or, at the 
    option of the town of Taos, in 20 annual payments of $18,000 due on 
    January 1 of the first year following enactment of this Act and 
    annually thereafter until the total amount due has been paid, as 
    agreed upon by the Secretary of Agriculture. The cash so received 
    shall be deposited into a special fund in the Treasury which will 
    remain available, subject to appropriations, until expended by the 
    Secretary for the purpose of acquiring, within the State of New 
    Mexico, lands or administrative facilities on National Forest System 
    lands. The town of Taos shall not be charged interest on amounts 
    owed the United States for such conveyance.
        (2) Release.--On transfer of the property under subsection (a) 
    the town of Taos shall release the United States from any liability 
    for claims relating to the property.
        (3) Reversion.--The conveyance described in subsection (a) shall 
    be a conveyance of fee simple title to the property, subject to 
    reversion to the United States if the property is used for other 
    than public purposes or if the compensation requirements described 
    in paragraph (1) are not met.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.