[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4497 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4497

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To award a congressional gold medal to Rabbi Menachem Mendel 
Schneerson.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress hereby finds the following:
        (1) Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the leader of the 
    Lubavitch movement for 40 years, has made outstanding and lasting 
    contributions toward improvements in world education, morality, and 
    acts of charity.
        (2) Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, as a refugee first from 
    Stalinist Russia and then from Nazi Germany, has made the 
    headquarters of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement in New York City a 
    center of over 2,000 educational, social, and rehabilitative 
    institutions touching millions of people from all walks of life in 
    every corner of the globe.
        (3) Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, throughout his 92 years 
    of life, has exemplified the highest ideals of scholarship, 
    teaching, ethics, and charity.
        (4) Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson has interpreted with keen 
    insight the miraculous events of our time and has inspired people 
    to a renewal of individual values of spirituality, cooperation, and 
    love of learning.
        (5) Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson's extraordinary life and 
    work have long been recognized by the Congress through the 
    enactment of joint resolutions designating his birthday in each of 
    the last 16 years as ``Education and Sharing Day, U.S.A.''.

SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of the Congress, to the Lubavitcher rebbe, Rabbi 
Menachem Mendel Schneerson, a gold medal of appropriate design, in 
recognition of his outstanding and enduring contributions toward world 
education, morality, and acts of charity.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall strike a gold 
medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions reflecting the 
theme of education to be determined by the Secretary.
    (c) Gifts or Donations.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall accept, 
    use, and disburse gifts or donations of property or money to carry 
    out this section.
        (2) No appropriation authorized.--No amount is authorized to be 
    appropriated to carry out this section.

SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary of the Treasury may strike and sell duplicates in 
bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 1 under such 
regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to 
cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of 
machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for 
purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.