[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1189 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1189
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To entitle certain armored car crew members to lawfully carry a weapon 
in any State while protecting the security of valuable goods in 
interstate commerce in the service of an armored car company.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Armored Car Industry Reciprocity Act 
of 1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) the distribution of goods and services to consumers in the 
    United States requires the free flow of currency, bullion, 
    securities, food stamps, and other items of unusual value in 
    interstate commerce;
        (2) the armored car industry transports and protects such items 
    in interstate commerce, including daily transportation of currency 
    and food stamps valued at more than $1,000,000,000;
        (3) armored car crew members are often subject to armed attack 
    by individuals attempting to steal such items;
        (4) to protect themselves and the items they transport, such 
    crew members are armed with weapons;
        (5) various States require both weapons training and a criminal 
    record background check before licensing a crew member to carry a 
    weapon; and
        (6) there is a need for each State to reciprocally accept 
    weapons licenses of other States for armored car crew members to 
    assure the free and safe transport of valuable items in interstate 
    commerce.
SEC. 3. STATE RECIPROCITY OF WEAPONS LICENSES ISSUED TO ARMORED CAR 
COMPANY CREW MEMBERS.
    (a) In General.--If an armored car crew member employed by an 
armored car company has in effect a license issued by the appropriate 
State agency (in the State in which such member is primarily employed by 
such company) to carry a weapon while acting in the services of such 
company in that State, and such State agency meets the minimum State 
requirements under subsection (b), then such crew member shall be 
entitled to lawfully carry any weapon to which such license relates in 
any State while such crew member is acting in the service of such 
company.
    (b) Minimum State Requirements.--A State agency meets the minimum 
State requirements of this subsection if in issuing a weapons license to 
an armored car crew member described in subsection (a), the agency 
requires the crew member to provide information on an annual basis to 
the satisfaction of the agency that--
        (1) the crew member has received classroom and range training in 
    weapons safety and marksmanship during the current year by a 
    qualified instructor for each weapon that the crew member is 
    licensed to carry; and
        (2) the receipt or possession of a weapon by the crew member 
    would not violate Federal law, determined on the basis of a criminal 
    record background check conducted during the current year.

SEC. 4. RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.

    This Act shall supersede any provision of State law (or the law of 
any political subdivision of a State) that is inconsistent with this 
Act.

SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
        (1) The term ``armored car crew member'' means an individual who 
    provides protection for goods transported by an armored car company.
        (2) The term ``armored car company'' means a company--
            (A) subject to regulation under subchapter II of chapter 105 
        of title 49, United States Code; and
            (B) holding the appropriate certificate, permit, or license 
        issued under subchapter II of chapter 109 of such title, in 
        order to engage in the business of transporting and protecting 
        currency, bullion, securities, precious metals, food stamps, and 
        other articles of unusual value in interstate commerce.
        (3) The term ``State'' means any State of the United States or 
    the District of Columbia.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.