[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3059 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3059

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To establish a National Maritime Heritage Program to make grants 
available for educational programs and the restoration of America's 
cultural resources for the purpose of preserving America's endangered 
maritime heritage.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Maritime Heritage Act of 
1994''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds and declares the following:
        (1) The United States is a nation with a rich maritime history, 
    and it is desirable to foster in the American public a greater 
    awareness and appreciation of the role of maritime endeavors in our 
    Nation's history and culture.
        (2) The maritime historical and cultural foundations of the 
    Nation should be preserved as a part of our community life and 
    development.
        (3) National, State, and local groups have been working 
    independently to preserve the maritime heritage of the United 
    States.
        (4) Historic resources significant to the Nation's maritime 
    heritage are being lost or substantially altered, often 
    inadvertently, with increasing frequency.
        (5) The preservation of this irreplaceable maritime heritage is 
    in the public interest so that its vital legacy of cultural, 
    educational, aesthetic, inspirational, and economic benefits will 
    be maintained and enriched for future generations of Americans.
        (6) The current governmental and nongovernmental historic 
    preservation programs and activities are inadequate to ensure 
    future generations a genuine opportunity to appreciate and enjoy 
    the rich maritime heritage of our Nation.
        (7) A coordinated national program is needed immediately to 
    redress the adverse consequences of a period of indifference during 
    which the maritime heritage of the United States has become 
    endangered and to ensure the future preservation of the Nation's 
    maritime heritage.
        (8) A national maritime heritage policy would greatly increase 
    public awareness of, and participation in, the preservation of the 
    Nation's maritime heritage.

SEC. 3. NATIONAL MARITIME HERITAGE POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the Federal Government, in partnership 
with the States and local governments and private organizations and 
individuals, to--
        (1) use measures, including financial and technical assistance, 
    to foster conditions under which our modern society and our 
    historic maritime resources can exist in productive harmony;
        (2) provide leadership in the preservation of the historic 
    maritime resources of the United States;
        (3) contribute to the preservation of historic maritime 
    resources and give maximum encouragement to organizations and 
    individuals undertaking preservation by private means; and
        (4) assist State and local governments to expand their maritime 
    historic preservation programs and activities.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL MARITIME HERITAGE GRANTS PROGRAM.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established within the 
Department of the Interior the National Maritime Heritage Grants 
Program, to foster in the American public a greater awareness and 
appreciation of the role of maritime endeavors in our Nation's history 
and culture. The Program shall consist of--
        (1) annual grants to the National Trust for Historic 
    Preservation for subgrants administered by the National Trust for 
    maritime heritage education projects under subsection (b);
        (2) grants to State Historic Preservation Officers for maritime 
    heritage preservation projects carried out or administered by those 
    Officers under subsection (c); and
        (3) grants for interim projects under subsection (j).
    (b) Grants for Maritime Heritage Education Projects.--
        (1) Grants to national trust for historic preservation.--The 
    Secretary, subject to paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), and the 
    availability of amounts for that purpose under section 6(b)(1)(A), 
    shall make an annual grant to the National Trust for maritime 
    heritage education projects.
        (2) Use of grants.--Amounts received by the National Trust as 
    an annual grant under this subsection shall be used to make 
    subgrants to State and local governments and private nonprofit 
    organizations to carry out education projects which have been 
    approved by the Secretary under subsection (f) and which consist 
    of--
            (A) assistance to any maritime museum or historical society 
        for--
                (i) existing and new educational programs, exhibits, 
            educational activities, conservation, and interpretation of 
            artifacts and collections;
                (ii) minor improvements to educational and museum 
            facilities; and
                (iii) other similar activities;
            (B) activities designed to encourage the preservation of 
        traditional maritime skills, including--
                (i) building and operation of vessels of all sizes and 
            types for educational purposes;
                (ii) special skills such as wood carving, sail making, 
            and rigging;
                (iii) traditional maritime art forms; and
                (iv) sail training;
            (C) other educational activities relating to historic 
        maritime resources, including--
                (i) maritime educational waterborne-experience programs 
            in historic vessels or vessel reproductions;
                (ii) maritime archaeological field schools; and
                (iii) educational programs on other aspects of maritime 
            history;
            (D) heritage programs focusing on maritime historic 
        resources, including maritime heritage trails and corridors; or
            (E) the construction and use of reproductions of historic 
        maritime resources for educational purposes, if a historic 
        maritime resource no longer exists or would be damaged or 
        consumed through direct use.
    (c) Grants for Maritime Heritage Preservation Projects.--
        (1) Grants to state historic preservation offices.--The 
    Secretary, acting through the National Maritime Initiative of the 
    National Park Service and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), and 
    the availability of amounts for that purpose under section 
    6(b)(1)(B), shall make grants to State Historic Preservation 
    Officers for maritime heritage preservation projects.
        (2) Use of grants.--Amounts received by a State Historic 
    Preservation Officer as a grant under this subsection shall be used 
    by the Officer to carry out or to make subgrants to local 
    governments and private nonprofit organizations to carry out, 
    projects which have been approved by the Secretary under subsection 
    (f) for the preservation of historic maritime resources through--
            (A) identification of historic maritime resources, 
        including underwater archaeological sites;
            (B) acquisition of historic maritime resources for the 
        purposes of preservation;
            (C) repair, restoration, stabilization, maintenance, or 
        other capital improvements to historic maritime resources, in 
        accordance with standards prescribed by the Secretary; and
            (D) research, recording (through drawings, photographs, or 
        otherwise), planning (through feasibility studies, 
        architectural and engineering services, or otherwise), and 
        other services carried out as part of a preservation program 
        for historic maritime resources.
    (d) Criteria for Direct Grant and Subgrant Eligibility.--To qualify 
for a subgrant from the National Trust under subsection (b), or a 
direct grant to or a subgrant from a State Historic Preservation 
Officer under subsection (c), a person must--
        (1) demonstrate that the project for which the direct grant or 
    subgrant will be used has the potential for reaching a broad 
    audience with an effective educational program based on American 
    maritime history, technology, or the role of maritime endeavors in 
    American culture;
        (2) match the amount of the direct grant or subgrant, on a 1-
    to-1 basis, with non-Federal assets from non-Federal sources, which 
    may include cash or donated services fairly valued as determined by 
    the Secretary;
        (3) maintain records as may be reasonably necessary to fully 
    disclose--
            (A) the amount and the disposition of the proceeds of the 
        direct grant or subgrant;
            (B) the total cost of the project for which the direct 
        grant or subgrant is made; and
            (C) other records as may be required by the Secretary, 
        including such records as will facilitate an effective 
        accounting for project funds;
        (4) provide access to the Secretary for the purposes of any 
    required audit and examination of any books, documents, papers, and 
    records of the person; and
        (5) be a unit of State or local government, or a private 
    nonprofit organization.
    (e) Procedures, Terms, and Conditions.--
        (1) Application procedures.--An application for a subgrant 
    under subsection (b), or a direct grant or subgrant under 
    subsection (c), shall be submitted under procedures prescribed by 
    the Secretary.
        (2) Terms and conditions.--A person may not receive a subgrant 
    under subsection (b), or a direct grant or subgrant under 
    subsection (c), unless the person has agreed to assume, after 
    completion of the project for which the direct grant or subgrant is 
    awarded, the total cost of the continued maintenance, repair, and 
    administration of any property for which the subgrant will be used 
    in a manner satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (f) Review of Proposals.--
        (1) Committee recommendations.--The National Maritime Heritage 
    Grants Committee shall review applications for subgrants under 
    subsection (b), and direct grants or subgrants under subsection 
    (c), and submit recommendations to the Secretary regarding projects 
    which should receive funding under those direct grants and 
    subgrants.
        (2) Allocation of grant funding.--To the extent feasible, the 
    Secretary shall ensure that the amount made available under 
    subsection (b) for maritime heritage education projects is equal to 
    the amount made available under subsection (c) for maritime 
    heritage preservation projects.
        (3) Limitation.--The amount provided by the Secretary in a 
    fiscal year as grants under this section for projects relating to 
    historic maritime resources owned or operated by the Federal 
    Government shall not exceed 40 percent of the total amount 
    available for the fiscal year for grants under this section.
    (g) Direct Grants and Subgrants Process.--
        (1) Direct grants and subgrants solicitation.--The Secretary 
    shall publish annually in the Federal Register and otherwise as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate--
            (A) a solicitation of applications for direct grants and 
        subgrants under this section;
            (B) a list of priorities for the making of those direct 
        grants and subgrants;
            (C) a single deadline for the submission of applications 
        for those direct grants and subgrants; and
            (D) other relevant information.
        (2) Receipt and approval or disapproval of direct grant and 
    subgrant applications.--Within 60 days after the submission of 
    recommendations by the Committee to the Secretary under subsection 
    (h)(6), the Secretary shall review and approve or disapprove a 
    direct grant or subgrant for each project recommended by the 
    Committee and provide to the Committee and the applicant the 
    reasons for that approval or disapproval.
    (h) Direct Grant and Subgrant Administration.--The National Trust 
shall be responsible for administering subgrants for maritime heritage 
education projects under subsection (b), the Secretary shall be 
responsible for administering direct grants for maritime heritage 
preservation projects under subsection (c), and the various State 
Historic Preservation Officers shall be responsible for administering 
subgrants for maritime heritage preservation projects under subsection 
(c), by--
        (1) publicizing the Program to prospective grantees, 
    subgrantees, and to the public at large, in cooperation with the 
    National Park Service, the Maritime Administration, and other 
    appropriate government agencies and private institutions;
        (2) answering inquiries from the public, including providing 
    information on the Program as requested;
        (3) distributing direct grant and subgrant applications;
        (4) receiving direct grant and subgrant applications and 
    ensuring their completeness;
        (5) forwarding the applications to the Committee for review and 
    recommendation;
        (6) submitting to the Secretary applications that the Committee 
    recommends should be approved by the Secretary;
        (7) keeping records of all direct grant and subgrant awards and 
    expenditures of funds;
        (8) monitoring progress of projects carried out with direct 
    grants and subgrants; and
        (9) providing to the Secretary such progress reports as may be 
    required by the Secretary.
    (i) Assistance of Maritime Preservation Organizations.--The 
Secretary, the National Trust, and the State Historic Preservation 
Officers may, individually or jointly, enter into cooperative 
agreements with any private nonprofit organization with appropriate 
expertise in maritime preservation issues, or other qualified maritime 
preservation organizations, to assist in the administration of the 
Program.
    (j) Grants for Interim Projects.--
        (1) Grants authority.--The Secretary, subject to paragraph (3), 
    may use amounts available under section 6(b)(2) to make one or more 
    grants described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Grants described.--The grants referred to in paragraph (1) 
    are the following:
            (A) A grant to the National Museum Association (a nonprofit 
        organization located in San Francisco, California) for payment 
        of expenses directly related to the preservation and 
        restoration of the historic fleet of the San Francisco Maritime 
        National Historical Park, located in San Francisco, California.
            (B) A grant to the Virginia V Foundation (a nonprofit 
        organization) for use in restoration and preservation of the 
        historic steamship VIRGINIA V.
            (C) A grant to any nonprofit organization which operates 
        and maintains a former hospital ship to be converted to engage 
        in public health activities, for use in refurbishing and 
        maintaining the ship for those activities.
            (D) A grant to the Mariners' Museum (a not-for-profit 
        educational institution located in Newport News, Virginia, for 
        use for expenses directly related to the computerization of the 
        library and archives of that museum, including for the purpose 
        of providing to the public enhanced national access to those 
        materials.
            (E) A grant for each of fiscal years 1996, 1997, 1998, 
        1999, and 2000 to the Center for Maritime and Underwater 
        Resource Management at Michigan State University, for a pilot 
        project to plan, design, implement, and evaluate innovative 
        approaches to management and development of maritime and 
        underwater cultural resources at the following sites: Thunder 
        Bay, the Manitou Passage, Isle Royale National Park, Keweenaw 
        Peninsula, Marquette County, Alger County, Whitefish Point, the 
        Straits of Mackinac, the Thumb Area, and Sanilac Shores.
        (3) Grant conditions.--The Secretary may not make a grant under 
    this subsection unless the grantee complies with the requirements 
    set forth in paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 4(d).
    (k) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
Congress, after review by the Committee, an annual report on the 
Program, including--
        (1) a description of each project funded under the Program in 
    the period covered by the report;
        (2) the results or accomplishments of each such project; and
        (3) recommended priorities for achieving the policy set forth 
    in section 3.
SEC. 5. NATIONAL MARITIME HERITAGE GRANTS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a National Maritime 
Heritage Grants Advisory Committee.
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) In general.--The Committee shall consist of 13 members 
    appointed by the Secretary from among individual members of the 
    public who--
            (A) are representatives of various sectors of the maritime 
        community who are knowledgeable and experienced in maritime 
        heritage and preservation;
            (B) to the extent practicable, are selected in a manner 
        that ensures regional geographic balance;
            (C) to the extent practicable, include a representative of 
        each of the fields of--
                (i) small craft preservation;
                (ii) large vessel preservation;
                (iii) sail training;
                (iv) preservation architecture;
                (v) underwater archaeology;
                (vi) lighthouse preservation;
                (vii) maritime education;
                (viii) military naval history;
                (ix) maritime museums or historical societies;
                (x) maritime arts and crafts;
                (xi) maritime heritage tourism; and
                (xii) maritime recreational resources management; and
            (D) include a member of the general public.
        (2) Ex officio members.--In addition to the members appointed 
    under paragraph (1), the President of the National Trust and the 
    President of the National Conference of State Historic Preservation 
    Officers (or their respective designees) shall be ex officio voting 
    members of the Committee.
        (3) Term.--The term of a member of the Committee appointed 
    under paragraph (1) shall be 3 years, except that of the members 
    first appointed 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of 1 year 
    and 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of 2 years, as 
    specified by the Secretary at the time of appointment.
        (4) Completion of appointments.--The Secretary shall complete 
    appointment of the members of the Committee under paragraph (1) by 
    not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (5) Vacancies.--In the case of a vacancy in the membership of 
    the Committee appointed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    appoint an individual to serve the remainder of the term that is 
    vacant by not later than 60 days after the vacancy occurs.
    (c) Federal Government Ex Officio Members.--There shall be ex 
officio Federal Government members of the Committee as follows:
        (1) At least 1 individual designated by each of--
            (A) the Director of the National Park Service;
            (B) the Administrator of the Maritime Administration;
            (C) the Commandant of the Coast Guard;
            (D) the Secretary of the Navy;
            (E) the Administrator of the National Oceanic and 
        Atmospheric Administration; and
            (F) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
        (2) Other representatives designated by the heads of such other 
    interested Federal Government agencies as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (d) Duties of the Committee.--The duties of the Committee include--
        (1) reviewing direct grant and subgrant proposals and making 
    funding recommendations to the Secretary;
        (2) identifying and advising the Secretary regarding priorities 
    for achieving the policy set forth in section 3;
        (3) reviewing the Secretary's annual report to the Congress 
    under section 4(k); and
        (4) performing any other duties the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (e) Quorum.--Nine members of the Committee shall constitute a 
quorum for making recommendations on subgrant applications.
    (f) Appointments Process.--The Secretary shall--
        (1) publicize annually, in the Federal Register and through 
    publications of preservation and maritime organizations, a request 
    for submission of nominations for appointments to the Committee 
    under subsection (b)(1); and
        (2) designate from among the members of the Committee--
            (A) a Chairman; and
            (B) a Vice Chairman who may act in place of the Chairman 
        during the absence or disability of the Chairman or when the 
        office of Chairman is vacant.
    (g) Compensation and Travel Expenses.--An individual shall not 
receive any pay by reason of membership on the Committee. While away 
from home or regular place of business in the performance of service 
for the Committee, a member of the Committee shall be allowed travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner 
as a person employed intermittently in the Government service is 
allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (h) Staff of Federal Agencies.--Upon request of the Committee, the 
Secretary may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of 
the Department of the Interior to the Committee to assist it in 
carrying out its duties under this Act.
    (i) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of the 
Committee, the National Trust shall provide to the Committee the 
support services necessary for the Committee to carry out its duties 
under this Act.
    (j) Relationship to Other Law.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act 
(5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Committee, except that meetings of 
the Committee may be closed to the public by majority vote and section 
14(b) of that Act does not apply to the Committee.
    (k) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate on September 30, 
2000.

SEC. 6. FUNDING.

    (a) Availability of Funds From Sale and Scrapping of Obsolete 
Vessels.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    the amount of funds credited in a fiscal year to the Vessel 
    Operations Revolving Fund established by the Act of June 2, 1951 
    (46 App. U.S.C. 1241a), that is attributable to the sale of 
    obsolete vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet that are 
    scrapped or sold under section 508 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 
    (46 App. U.S.C. 1158) shall be available until expended as follows:
            (A) 50 percent shall be available to the Administrator of 
        the Maritime Administration for such acquisition, maintenance, 
        repair, reconditioning, or improvement of vessels in the 
        National Defense Reserve Fleet as is authorized under other 
        Federal law.
            (B) 25 percent shall be available to the Administrator of 
        the Maritime Administration for the payment or reimbursement of 
        expenses incurred by or on behalf of State maritime academies 
        or the United States Merchant Marine Academy for facility and 
        training ship maintenance, repair, and modernization, and for 
        the purchase of simulators and fuel.
            (C) The remainder shall be available to the Secretary to 
        carry out the Program, as provided in subsection (b).
        (2) Application.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to amounts 
    credited to the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund before July 1, 
    1994.
    (b) Use of Amounts for Program.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), of 
    amounts available each fiscal year for the Program under subsection 
    (a)(1)(C)--
            (A) \1/2\ shall be used for grants under section 4(b); and
            (B) \1/2\ shall be used for grants under section 4(c).
        (2) Use for interim projects.--Amounts available for the 
    Program under subsection (a)(1)(C) that are the proceeds of any of 
    the first 6 obsolete vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet 
    that are sold or scrapped after July 1, 1994, under section 508 of 
    the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 U.S.C. 1158) are available to the 
    Secretary for grants for interim projects approved under section 
    4(j) of this Act.
        (3) Administrative expenses.--
            (A) In general.--Not more than 15 percent or $500,000, 
        whichever is less, of the amount available for the Program 
        under subsection (a)(1)(C) for a fiscal year may be used for 
        expenses of administering the Program.
            (B) Allocation.--Of the amount available under subparagraph 
        (A) for a fiscal year--
                (i) \1/2\ shall be allocated to the National Trust for 
            expenses incurred in administering grants under section 
            4(b); and
                (ii) \1/2\ shall be allocated as appropriate by the 
            Secretary to the National Park Service and participating 
            State Historic Preservation Officers.
    (c) Disposals of Vessels.--
        (1) Requirement.--The Secretary of Transportation shall dispose 
    of all vessels described in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by September 30, 1999;
            (B) in a manner that maximizes the return on the vessels to 
        the United States; and
            (C) in accordance with the plan of the Department of 
        Transportation for disposal of those vessels and requirements 
        under sections 508 and 510(i) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 
        (46 App. U.S.C. 1158, 1160(i)).
        (2) Vessels described.--The vessels referred to in paragraph 
    (1) are the vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet after 
    July 1, 1994, that--
            (A) are not assigned to the Ready Reserve Force component 
        of that fleet; and
            (B) are not specifically authorized or required by statute 
        to be used for a particular purpose.
    (d) Treatment of Amounts Available.--Amounts available under this 
section shall not be considered in any determination of the amounts 
available to the Department of the Interior.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
        (1) Committee.--The term ``Committee'' means the Maritime 
    Heritage Grants Advisory Committee established under section 5.
        (2) National trust.--The term ``National Trust'' means the 
    National Trust for Historic Preservation created by section 1 of 
    the Act of October 26, 1949 (16 U.S.C. 468).
        (3) Private nonprofit organization.--The term ``private 
    nonprofit organization'' means any person that is exempt from 
    taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
    (26 U.S.C. 501(a)) and described in section 501(c)(3) of that Code 
    (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)).
        (4) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the National Maritime 
    Heritage Grants Program established by section 4(a).
        (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (6) State historic preservation officer.--The term ``State 
    Historic Preservation Officer'' means a State Historic Preservation 
    Officer appointed pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) of section 101(b) of 
    the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(b)(1)(A)) by 
    the Governor of a State having a State Historic Preservation 
    Program approved by the Secretary under that section.

SEC. 8. REGULATIONS.

    The Secretary, after consultation with the National Trust, the 
National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers, and 
appropriate members of the maritime heritage community, shall 
promulgate appropriate guidelines, procedures, and regulations within 1 
year after the date of enactment of this Act to carry out the Act, 
including regulations establishing terms of office for the initial 
membership of the Committee, direct grant and subgrant priorities, the 
method of solicitation and review of direct grant and subgrant 
proposals, criteria for review of direct grant and subgrant proposals, 
administrative requirements, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, 
and any other requirements the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 9. SAVINGS PROVISION.

    The authorities contained in this Act shall be in addition to, and 
shall not be construed to supercede or modify those contained in the 
National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470-470x-6).
  SEC. 10. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY VESSEL TO THE BATTLE OF THE ATLANTIC 
      HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary of 
Transportation may convey the right, title, and interest of the United 
States Government in and to the vessel S/S AMERICAN VICTORY (Victory 
Ship VC2-S-AP3; United States official number 248005), or a vessel of a 
comparable size and class, to the Battle of the Atlantic Historical 
Society (in this section referred to as ``the recipient''), if--
        (1) the recipient agrees to use the vessel for the purposes of 
    a Merchant Marine memorial, historical preservation, and 
    educational activities;
        (2) the vessel is not used for commercial transportation 
    purposes;
        (3) the recipient agrees to make the vessel available to the 
    Government if the Secretary of Transportation requires use of the 
    vessel by the Government for war or a national emergency;
        (4) the recipient agrees that when the recipient no longer 
    requires the vessel for use for the purposes described in paragraph 
    (1)--
            (A) the recipient will, at the discretion of the Secretary 
        of Transportation, reconvey the vessel to the Government in 
        good condition except for ordinary wear and tear; or
            (B) if the recipient has decided to dissolve according to 
        the laws of the State of New York, then--
                (i) the recipient shall distribute the vessel, as an 
            asset of the recipient, to a person that is described in 
            section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 
            U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) and that is exempt from taxation under 
            section 501(a) of that Code (26 U.S.C. 501(a)), or to the 
            Federal Government or a State or local government for a 
            public purpose; and
                (ii) the vessel shall be disposed of by a court of 
            competent jurisdiction of the county in which the principal 
            office of the recipient is located, for such purposes as 
            the court shall determine, or to such organizations as the 
            court shall determine are organized exclusively for public 
            purposes;
        (5) the recipient agrees to hold the Government harmless for 
    any claims arising from exposure to asbestos after conveyance of 
    the vessel, except for claims arising from use by the Government 
    under paragraph (3) or (4);
        (6) the recipient has available, for use to restore the vessel, 
    in the form of cash, liquid assets, or a written loan commitment, 
    financial resources of at least $100,000; and
        (7) the recipient is described in section 501(c)(3) of the 
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) and is exempt 
    from taxation under section 501(a) of that Code (26 U.S.C. 501(a)).
    (b) Delivery of Vessel.--If a conveyance is made under this 
section, the Secretary of Transportation shall deliver the vessel at 
the place where the vessel is located on the date of enactment of this 
Act, in its present condition, without cost to the Government.
    (c) Other Unneeded Equipment.--The Secretary of Transportation may 
convey to the recipient any unneeded equipment from other vessels in 
the National Defense Reserve Fleet for use to restore the S/S AMERICAN 
VICTORY, or a vessel of a comparable size and class, to museum quality.
    (d) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary of 
Transportation under this section to convey a vessel to the Battle of 
the Atlantic Historical Society shall expire 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (e) Reversionary Interest of the United States.--All right, title, 
and interest in and to a vessel that is conveyed under subsection (a) 
to and held by the recipient shall revert to the United States at any 
time that it is finally determined that the recipient is not exempt 
from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
(26 U.S.C. 501(a)).

SEC. 11. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY VESSEL TO WARSAW, KENTUCKY.

    (a) Authority To Convey.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of Transportation may, subject to subsection (c), 
convey to the City of Warsaw, Kentucky, without consideration, for use 
by the City for the promotion of economic development and tourism, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in a vessel, including 
related spare parts and vessel equipment, which--
        (1) is in the National Defense Reserve Fleet on the date of 
    enactment of this Act;
        (2) has no usefulness to the United States Government; and
        (3) is scheduled to be scrapped.
    (b) Delivery.--At the request of the City of Warsaw, Kentucky, the 
Secretary of Transportation is authorized to deliver the vessel 
referred to in subsection (a)--
        (1) at the place where the vessel is located on the date of the 
    approval of the conveyance;
        (2) in its condition on that date; and
        (3) without cost to the United States Government.
    (c) Conditions.--As a condition of any conveyance of a vessel under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation shall require that the 
City--
        (1) raise, before the date of the conveyance, at least $100,000 
    from non-Federal sources to support the intended use of the vessel;
        (2) agree to indemnify the United States for any liability 
    arising from or caused by the vessel after the date of the 
    conveyance of the vessel, including liability--
            (A) for personal injury or damage to property;
            (B) related to the delivery of the vessel to the City; and
            (C) related to asbestos; and
        (3) comply with any other conditions the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (d) United States Not Liable.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, the Government of the United States shall not be liable to any 
person for any liability described in subsection (c)(2).
    (e) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary of 
Transportation under this section to convey a vessel to the City of 
Warsaw, Kentucky, shall expire 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
  SEC. 12. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY VESSEL TO ASSISTANCE INTERNATIONAL, INC.
    (a) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary of 
Transportation may convey, without compensation and by not later than 
September 30, 1996, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
Government in and to the vessels L.S.T. TIOGA COUNTY, R.V. LYNCH, and 
L.S.T. LORRAINE COUNTY, including related spare parts and vessel 
equipment, to the nonprofit corporation Assistance International, Inc. 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``recipient''), for use 
in emergencies, vocational training, and economic development programs.
    (b) Conditions.--As a condition of any vessel conveyance under this 
section the Secretary of Transportation shall require the recipient 
to--
        (1) agree to use the vessel solely for nonprofit activities;
        (2) agree to not use the vessel for commercial transportation 
    purposes in competition with any United States-flag vessel;
        (3) agree to make the vessel available to the Government 
    whenever use of the vessel is required by the Government;
        (4) agree that, whenever the recipient no longer requires the 
    use of the vessel for its nonprofit activities, the recipient 
    shall--
            (A) at the discretion of the Secretary of Transportation, 
        reconvey the vessel to the Government in as good a condition as 
        when it was received from the Government, except for ordinary 
        wear and tear; and
            (B) deliver the vessel to the Government at the place where 
        the vessel was delivered to the recipient;
        (5) agree to hold the Government harmless for any claim arising 
    after conveyance of the vessel, except for claims against the 
    Government arising during the use of the vessel by the Government 
    under paragraph (3) or (4);
        (6) have available at least $100,000 from non-Federal sources 
    to support the intended uses of the vessel; and
        (7) agree to any other conditions the Secretary of 
    Transportation considers appropriate.
    (c) Delivery.--The Secretary of Transportation shall deliver each 
vessel conveyed under this section to the recipient--
        (1) at the place where the vessel is located on the date of 
    enactment of this Act;
        (2) in its condition on July 25, 1991, except for ordinary wear 
    and tear occurring after that date; and
        (3) without cost to the Government.
    (d) Termination of Authority.--The Authority of the Secretary of 
Transportation under this section to convey vessels to Assistance 
International, Inc., shall expire 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act.
  SEC. 13. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY VESSEL TO THE RIO GRANDE MILITARY 
      MUSEUM.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary of 
Transportation may convey the right, title, and interest of the United 
States Government in and to the vessel USS SPHINX (ARL-24), to the Rio 
Grande Military Museum (a not-for-profit corporation, hereinafter in 
this section referred to as the ``recipient'') for use as a military 
museum, if--
        (1) the recipient agrees to use the vessel as a nonprofit 
    military museum;
        (2) the vessel is not used for commercial transportation 
    purposes;
        (3) the recipient agrees to make the vessel available to the 
    Government when the Secretary of Transportation requires use of the 
    vessel by the Government;
        (4) the recipient agrees that when the recipient no longer 
    requires the vessel for use as a military museum--
            (A) the recipient will at the discretion of the Secretary 
        of Transportation, reconvey the vessel to the Government in 
        good condition except for ordinary wear and tear; or
            (B) if the Board of Directors of the recipient has decided 
        to dissolve the recipient according to the laws of the State of 
        Texas, then--
                (i) the recipient shall distribute the vessel, as an 
            asset of the recipient, to a person that has been 
            determined exempt from taxation under the provisions of 
            section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, or to the 
            Federal Government or a State or local government for a 
            public purpose; and
                (ii) the vessel shall be disposed of by a court of 
            competent jurisdiction of the county in which the principal 
            office of the recipient is located, for such purposes as 
            the court shall determine, or to such organizations as the 
            court shall determine are organized exclusively for public 
            purposes;
        (5) the recipient agrees to hold the Government harmless for 
    any claims arising from exposure to asbestos after conveyance of 
    the vessel, except for claims arising from use by the Government 
    under paragraph (3) or (4); and
        (6) the recipient has available, for use to restore the vessel, 
    in the form of cash, liquid assets, or a written loan commitment, 
    financial resources of at least $100,000.
    (b) Delivery of Vessel.--If a conveyance is made under this 
section, the Secretary of Transportation shall deliver the vessel at 
the place where the vessel is located on the date of enactment of this 
Act, in its present condition, without cost to the Government.
    (c) Other Unneeded Equipment.--The Secretary of Transportation may 
also convey any unneeded equipment from other vessels in the National 
Defense Reserve Fleet in order to restore the USS SPHINX (ARL-24) to 
museum quality.
    (d) Termination of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary of 
Transportation under this section to convey a vessel to the Rio Grande 
Military Museum shall expire 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.