[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4569 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4569

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To extend and make amendments to the President John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``President John F. Kennedy 
Assassination Records Collection Extension Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF ACT.

    Section 7(o)(1) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination 
Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``2 years after the date of enactment of this 
    Act'' and inserting ``September 30, 1996''; and
        (2) by striking ``2-year''.

SEC. 3. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REVIEW BOARD POWERS.

    Section 7(j)(1) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination 
Records Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (E) by striking ``and'' after the 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (F) by striking the period and inserting 
    ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) use the Federal Supply Service in the same manner and 
        under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of 
        the United States; and
            ``(H) use the United States mails in the same manner and 
        under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of 
        the United States.''.

SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO REVIEW BOARD PERSONNEL.

    (a) Security Clearance for Review Board Personnel.--Section 8 of 
the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 
1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(e) Security Clearance Required.--An individual employed in any 
position by the Review Board (including an individual appointed as 
Executive Director) shall be required to qualify for any necessary 
security clearance prior to taking office in that position, but may be 
employed conditionally in accordance with subsection (b)(3)(B) before 
qualifying for that clearance.''.
    (b) Appointment and Termination of Staff, Generally.--Section 8(b) 
of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act 
of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended by striking ``(b) Staff.--'' 
and all that follows through the end of paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(b) Staff.--(1) The Review Board, without regard to the civil 
service laws, may appoint and terminate additional personnel as are 
necessary to enable the Review Board and its Executive Director to 
perform the duties of the Review Board.''.
    (c) Review Board Administrative Staff.--Section 8(b)(2) of the 
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 
(44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``A person'' and inserting ``(A) Except as 
    provided in subparagraph (B), a person''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(B) An individual who is an employee of the Government may be 
appointed to the staff of the Review Board if in that position the 
individual will perform only administrative functions.''.
    (d) Conditional Employment of Staff.--Section 8(b)(3)(B) of the 
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 
(44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(B)(i) The Review Board may offer conditional employment to a 
candidate for a staff position pending the completion of security 
clearance background investigations. During the pendency of such 
investigations, the Review Board shall ensure that any such employee 
does not have access to, or responsibility involving, classified or 
otherwise restricted assassination record materials.
    ``(ii) If a person hired on a conditional basis under clause (i) is 
denied or otherwise does not qualify for all security clearances 
necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the position for which 
conditional employment has been offered, the Review Board shall 
immediately terminate the person's employment.''.
    (e) Compensation of Staff.--Section 8(c) of the President John F. 
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992 (21 U.S.C. 2107 
note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Compensation.--Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the 
Review Board, the chairperson, without regard to the provisions of 
title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive 
service and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to classification 
and General Schedule pay rates, may--
        ``(1) appoint an Executive Director, who shall be paid at a 
    rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay for level V of the 
    Executive Schedule; and
        ``(2) appoint and fix compensation of such other personnel as 
    may be necessary to carry out this Act.''.

SEC. 5. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.

    Section 6(1) of the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records 
Collection Act of 1992 (44 U.S.C. 2107 note) is amended in the matter 
preceding subparagraph (A) by inserting ``record'' after ``the 
assassination''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.