[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2884 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.2884

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To establish a national framework for the development of School-to-
Work Opportuni-


           ties systems in all States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title._This Act may be cited as the ``School-to-Work 
Opportunities Act of 1994''.
    (b) Table of Contents._The table of contents is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Purposes and congressional intent.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
Sec. 5. Federal administration.

      TITLE I_SCHOOL-TO-WORK OPPORTUNITIES BASIC PROGRAM COMPONENTS

Sec. 101. General program requirements.
Sec. 102. School-based learning component.
Sec. 103. Work-based learning component.
Sec. 104. Connecting activities component.

      TITLE II_SCHOOL-TO-WORK OPPORTUNITIES SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND 
                     IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS TO STATES

                   Subtitle A_State Development Grants

Sec. 201. Purpose.
Sec. 202. Authorization.
Sec. 203. Application.
Sec. 204. Approval of application.
Sec. 205. Use of amounts.
Sec. 206. Maintenance of effort.
Sec. 207. Reports.

                 Subtitle B_State Implementation Grants

Sec. 211. Purpose.
Sec. 212. Authorization.
Sec. 213. Application.
Sec. 214. Review of application.
Sec. 215. Use of amounts.
Sec. 216. Allocation requirement.
Sec. 217. Limitation on administrative costs.
Sec. 218. Reports.

  Subtitle C_Development and Implementation Grants for School-to-Work 
                       Programs for Indian Youths

Sec. 221. Authorization.
Sec. 222. Requirements.

      TITLE III_FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS TO LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS

Sec. 301. Purposes.
Sec. 302. Authorization.
Sec. 303. Application.
Sec. 304. Use of amounts.
Sec. 305. Conformity with approved State plan.
Sec. 306. Reports.
Sec. 307. High poverty area defined.

                       TITLE IV_NATIONAL PROGRAMS

Sec. 401. Research, demonstration, and other projects.
Sec. 402. Performance outcomes and evaluation.
Sec. 403. Training and technical assistance.
Sec. 404. Capacity building and information and dissemination network.
Sec. 405. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 406. Funding.

         TITLE V_WAIVER OF STATUTORY AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

Sec. 501. State and local partnership requests and responsibilities for 
          waivers.
Sec. 502. Waiver authority of Secretary of Education.
Sec. 503. Waiver authority of Secretary of Labor.
Sec. 504. Combination of Federal funds for high poverty schools.
Sec. 505. Combination of Federal funds by States for school-to-work 
          activities.

                       TITLE VI_GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 601. Requirements.
Sec. 602. Sanctions.
Sec. 603. State authority.
Sec. 604. Prohibition on Federal mandates, direction, and control.
Sec. 605. Authorization of appropriations.

                        TITLE VII_OTHER PROGRAMS

      Subtitle A_Reauthorization of Job Training for the Homeless 
Demonstration Program Under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
                                   Act

Sec. 701. Reauthorization.

                      Subtitle B_Tech-Prep Programs

Sec. 711. Tech-prep education.

                Subtitle C_Alaska Native Art and Culture

Sec. 721. Short title.
Sec. 722. Alaska Native art and culture.

                         Subtitle D_Job Training

Sec. 731. Amendment to Job Training Partnership Act to provide 
          allowances for child care costs to certain individuals 
          participating in the Job Corps.

                     TITLE VIII_TECHNICAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 801. Effective date.
Sec. 802. Sunset.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that_
        (1) three-fourths of high school students in the United States 
    enter the workforce without baccalaureate degrees, and many do not 
    possess the academic and entry-level occupational skills necessary 
    to succeed in the changing United States workplace;
        (2) a substantial number of youths in the United States, 
    especially disadvantaged students, students of diverse racial, 
    ethnic, and cultural backgrounds, and students with disabilities, 
    do not complete high school;
        (3) unemployment among youths in the United States is 
    intolerably high, and earnings of high school graduates have been 
    falling relative to earnings of individuals with more education;
        (4) the workplace in the United States is changing in response 
    to heightened international competition and new technologies, and 
    such forces, which are ultimately beneficial to the Nation, are 
    shrinking the demand for and undermining the earning power of 
    unskilled labor;
        (5) the United States lacks a comprehensive and coherent system 
    to help its youths acquire the knowledge, skills, abilities, and 
    information about and access to the labor market necessary to make 
    an effective transition from school to career-oriented work or to 
    further education and training;
        (6) students in the United States can achieve high academic and 
    occupational standards, and many learn better and retain more when 
    the students learn in context, rather than in the abstract;
        (7) while many students in the United States have part-time 
    jobs, there is infrequent linkage between_
            (A) such jobs; and
            (B) the career planning or exploration, or the school-based 
        learning, of such students;
        (8) the work-based learning approach, which is modeled after 
    the time-honored apprenticeship concept, integrates theoretical 
    instruction with structured on-the-job training, and this approach, 
    combined with school-based learning, can be very effective in 
    engaging student interest, enhancing skill acquisition, developing 
    positive work attitudes, and preparing youths for high-skill, high-
    wage careers;
        (9) Federal resources currently fund a series of categorical, 
    work-related education and training programs, many of which serve 
    disadvantaged youths, that are not administered as a coherent 
    whole; and
        (10) in 1992 approximately 3,400,000 individuals in the United 
    States age 16 through 24 had not completed high school and were not 
    currently enrolled in school, a number representing approximately 
    11 percent of all individuals in this age group, which indicates 
    that these young persons are particularly unprepared for the 
    demands of a 21st century workforce.

SEC. 3. PURPOSES AND CONGRESSIONAL INTENT.

    (a) Purposes._The purposes of this Act are_
        (1) to establish a national framework within which all States 
    can create statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems that_
            (A) are a part of comprehensive education reform;
            (B) are integrated with the systems developed under the 
        Goals 2000: Educate America Act and the National Skill 
        Standards Act of 1994; and
            (C) offer opportunities for all students to participate in 
        a performance-based education and training program that will_
                (i) enable the students to earn portable credentials;
                (ii) prepare the students for first jobs in high-skill, 
            high-wage careers; and
                (iii) increase their opportunities for further 
            education, including education in a 4-year college or 
            university;
        (2) to facilitate the creation of a universal, high-quality 
    school-to-work transition system that enables youths in the United 
    States to identify and navigate paths to productive and 
    progressively more rewarding roles in the workplace;
        (3) to utilize workplaces as active learning environments in 
    the educational process by making employers joint partners with 
    educators in providing opportunities for all students to 
    participate in high-quality, work-based learning experiences;
        (4) to use Federal funds under this Act as venture capital, to 
    underwrite the initial costs of planning and establishing statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities systems that will be maintained with 
    other Federal, State, and local resources;
        (5) to promote the formation of local partnerships that are 
    dedicated to linking the worlds of school and work among secondary 
    schools and postsecondary educational institutions, private and 
    public employers, labor organizations, government, community-based 
    organizations, parents, students, State educational agencies, local 
    educational agencies, and training and human service agencies;
        (6) to promote the formation of local partnerships between 
    elementary schools and secondary schools (including middle schools) 
    and local businesses as an investment in future workplace 
    productivity and competitiveness;
        (7) to help all students attain high academic and occupational 
    standards;
        (8) to build on and advance a range of promising school-to-work 
    activities, such as tech-prep education, careerP academies, school-
    to-apprenticeship programs, cooperative education, youth 
    apprenticeship, school-sponsored enterprises, business-education 
    compacts, and promising strategies that assist school dropouts, 
    that can be developed into programs funded under this Act;
        (9) to improve the knowledge and skills of youths by 
    integrating academic and occupational learning, integrating school-
    based and work-based learning, and building effective linkages 
    between secondary and postsecondary education;
        (10) to encourage the development and implementation of 
    programs that will require paid high-quality, work-based learning 
    experiences;
        (11) to motivate all youths, including low-achieving youths, 
    school dropouts, and youths with disabilities, to stay in or return 
    to school or a classroom setting and strive to succeed, by 
    providing enriched learning experiences and assistance in obtaining 
    good jobs and continuing their education in postsecondary 
    educational institutions;
        (12) to expose students to a broad array of career 
    opportunities, and facilitate the selection of career majors, based 
    on individual interests, goals, strengths, and abilities;
        (13) to increase opportunities for minorities, women, and 
    individuals with disabilities, by enabling individuals to prepare 
    for careers that are not traditional for their race, gender, or 
    disability; and
        (14) to further the National Education Goals set forth in title 
    I of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act.
    (b) Congressional Intent._It is the intent of Congress that the 
Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of Education jointly administer 
this Act in a flexible manner that_
        (1) promotes State and local discretion in establishing and 
    implementing statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems and 
    School-to-Work Opportunities programs; and
        (2) contributes to reinventing government by_
            (A) building on State and local capacity;
            (B) eliminating duplication in education and training 
        programs for youths by integrating such programs into 1 
        comprehensive system;
            (C) maximizing the effective use of resources;
            (D) supporting locally established initiatives;
            (E) requiring measurable goals for performance; and
            (F) offering flexibility in meeting such goals.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
        (1) All aspects of an industry._The term ``all aspects of an 
    industry'' means all aspects of the industry or industry sector a 
    student is preparing to enter, including planning, management, 
    finances, technical and production skills, underlying principles of 
    technology, labor and community issues, health and safety issues, 
    and environmental issues, related to such industry or industry 
    sector.
        (2) All students._The term ``all students'' means both male and 
    female students from a broad range of backgrounds and 
    circumstances, including disadvantaged students, students with 
    diverse racial, ethnic, or cultural backgrounds, American Indians, 
    Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, students with disabilities, 
    students with limited-English proficiency, migrant children, school 
    dropouts, and academically talented students.
        (3) Approved state plan._The term ``approved State plan'' means 
    a statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system plan that is 
    submitted by a State under section 213, is determined by the 
    Secretaries to include the program components described in sections 
    102 through 104 and otherwise meet the requirements of this Act, 
    and is consistent with the State improvement plan for the State, if 
    any, under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act.
        (4) Career guidance and counseling._The term ``career guidance 
    and counseling'' means programs_
            (A) that pertain to the body of subject matter and related 
        techniques and methods organized for the development in 
        individuals of career awareness, career planning, career 
        decisionmaking, placement skills, and knowledge and 
        understanding of local, State, and national occupational, 
        educational, and labor market needs, trends, and opportunities;
            (B) that assist individuals in making and implementing 
        informed educational and occupational choices; and
            (C) that aid students to develop career options with 
        attention to surmounting gender, race, ethnic, disability, 
        language, or socioeconomic impediments to career options and 
        encouraging careers in nontraditional employment.
        (5) Career major._The term ``career major'' means a coherent 
    sequence of courses or field of study that prepares a student for a 
    first job and that_
            (A) integrates academic and occupational learning, 
        integrates school-based and work-based learning, establishes 
        linkages between secondary schools and postsecondary 
        educational institutions;
            (B) prepares the student for employment in a broad 
        occupational cluster or industry sector;
            (C) typically includes at least 2 years of secondary 
        education and at least 1 or 2 years of postsecondary education;
            (D) provides the students, to the extent practicable, with 
        strong experience in and understanding of all aspects of the 
        industry the students are planning to enter;
            (E) results in the award of_
                (i) a high school diploma or its equivalent, such as_

                    (I) a general equivalency diploma; or
                    (II) an alternative diploma or certificate for 
                students with disabilities for whom such alternative 
                diploma or certificate is appropriate;

                (ii) a certificate or diploma recognizing successful 
            completion of 1 or 2 years of postsecondary education (if 
            appropriate); and
                (iii) a skill certificate; and
            (F) may lead to further education and training, such as 
        entry into a registered apprenticeship program, or may lead to 
        admission to a 2- or 4-year college or university.
        (6) Community-based organizations._The term ``community-based 
    organizations'' has the meaning given such term in section 4(5) of 
    the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(5)).
        (7) Elementary school._The term ``elementary school'' means a 
    day or residential school that provides elementary education, as 
    determined under State law.
        (8) Employer._The term ``employer'' includes both public and 
    private employers.
        (9) Governor._The term ``Governor'' means the chief executive 
    of a State.
        (10) Local educational agency._The term ``local educational 
    agency'' means a public board of education or other public 
    authority legally constituted within a State for either 
    administrative control or direction of, or to perform a service 
    function for, public elementary or secondary schools in a city, 
    county, township, school district, or other political subdivision 
    of a State, or such combination of school districts or counties as 
    are recognized in a State as an administrative agency for its 
    public elementary or secondary schools. Such term includes any 
    other public institution or agency having administrative control 
    and direction of a public elementary or secondary school.
        (11) Local partnership._The term ``local partnership'' means a 
    local entity that is responsible for local School-to-Work 
    Opportunities programs and that_
            (A) consists of employers, representatives of local 
        educational agencies and local postsecondary educational 
        institutions (including representatives of area vocational 
        education schools, where applicable), local educators (such as 
        teachers, counselors, or administrators), representatives of 
        labor organizations or nonmanagerial employee representatives, 
        and students; and
            (B) may include other entities, such as_
                (i) employer organizations;
                (ii) community-based organizations;
                (iii) national trade associations working at the local 
            levels;
                (iv) industrial extension centers;
                (v) rehabilitation agencies and organizations;
                (vi) registered apprenticeship agencies;
                (vii) local vocational education entities;
                (viii) proprietary institutions of higher education (as 
            defined in section 481(b) of the Higher Education Act of 
            1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088(b)) that continue to meet the 
            eligibility and certification requirements under title IV 
            of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
                (ix) local government agencies;
                (x) parent organizations;
                (xi) teacher organizations;
                (xii) vocational student organizations;
                (xiii) private industry councils established under 
            section 102 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 
            1512);
                (xiv) federally recognized Indian tribes, Indian 
            organizations, and Alaska Native villages within the 
            meaning of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
            U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); and
                (xv) Native Hawaiian entities.
        (12) Postsecondary educational institution._The term 
    ``postsecondary educational institution'' means an institution of 
    higher education (as such term is defined in section 481 of the 
    Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088)) which continues to 
    meet the eligibility and certification requirements under title IV 
    of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
        (13) Registered apprenticeship agency._The term ``registered 
    apprenticeship agency'' means the Bureau of Apprenticeship and 
    Training in the Department of Labor or a State apprenticeship 
    agency recognized and approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and 
    Training as the appropriate body for State registration or approval 
    of local apprenticeship programs and agreements for Federal 
    purposes.
        (14) Registered apprenticeship program._The term ``registered 
    apprenticeship program'' means a program registered by a registered 
    apprenticeship agency.
        (15) Related services._The term ``related services'' includes 
    the types of services described in section 602(17) of the 
    Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(17)).
        (16) Rural community with low population density._The term 
    ``rural community with low population density'' means a county, 
    block number area in a nonmetropolitan county, or consortium of 
    counties or of such block number areas, that has a population 
    density of 20 or fewer individuals per square mile.
        (17) School dropout._The term ``school dropout'' means a youth 
    who is no longer attending any school and who has not received a 
    secondary school diploma or a certificate from a program of 
    equivalency for such a diploma.
        (18) School site mentor._The term ``school site mentor'' means 
    a professional employed at a school who is designated as the 
    advocate for a particular student, and who works in consultation 
    with classroom teachers, counselors, related services personnel, 
    and the employer of the student to design and monitor the progress 
    of the School-to-Work Opportunities program of the student.
        (19) School-to-work opportunities program._The term ``School-
    to-Work Opportunities program'' means a program that meets the 
    requirements of this Act, other than a program described in section 
    401(a).
        (20) Secondary school._The term ``secondary school'' means_
            (A) a nonprofit day or residential school that provides 
        secondary education, as determined under State law, except that 
        it does not include any education provided beyond grade 12; and
            (B) a Job Corps center under part B of title IV of the Job 
        Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1691 et seq.).
        (21) Secretaries._The term ``Secretaries'' means the Secretary 
    of Education and the Secretary of Labor.
        (22) Skill certificate._The term ``skill certificate'' means a 
    portable, industry-recognized credential issued by a School-to-Work 
    Opportunities program under an approved State plan, that certifies 
    that a student has mastered skills at levels that are at least as 
    challenging as skill standards endorsed by the National Skill 
    Standards Board established under the National Skill Standards Act 
    of 1994, except that until such skill standards are developed, the 
    term ``skill certificate'' means a credential issued under a 
    process described in the approved State plan.
        (23) State._The term ``State'' means each of the several 
    States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
    Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
    Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau.
        (24) State educational agency._The term ``State educational 
    agency'' means the officer or agency primarilyP responsible for the 
    State supervision of public elementary and secondary schools.
        (25) Workplace mentor._The term ``workplace mentor'' means an 
    employee or other individual, approved by the employer at a 
    workplace, who possesses the skills and knowledge to be mastered by 
    a student, and who instructs the student, critiques the performance 
    of the student, challenges the student to perform well, and works 
    in consultation with classroom teachers and the employer of the 
    student.

SEC. 5. FEDERAL ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Joint Administration._
        (1) In general._Notwithstanding the Department of Education 
    Organization Act (20 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.), the General Education 
    Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1221 et seq.), the Act entitled ``An Act 
    To Create a Department of Labor'', approved March 4, 1913 (29 
    U.S.C. 551 et seq.), and section 166 of the Job Training 
    Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1576), the Secretaries shall jointly 
    provide for, and shall exercise final authority over, the 
    administration of this Act, and shall have final authority to 
    jointly issue whatever procedures, guidelines, and regulations, in 
    accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, the 
    Secretaries consider necessary and appropriate to administer and 
    enforce the provisions of this Act.
        (2) Submission of plan._Not later than 120 days after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall prepare a plan for 
    the joint administration of this Act and submit such plan to 
    Congress for review and comment.
    (b) Acceptance of Gifts._The Secretaries are authorized, in 
carrying out this Act, to accept, purchase, or lease in the name of the 
Department of Labor or the Department of Education, and employ or 
dispose of in furtherance of the purposes of this Act, any money or 
property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by 
gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise.
    (c) Use of Voluntary and Uncompensated Services._Notwithstanding 
section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretaries are 
authorized to accept voluntary and uncompensated services in 
furtherance of the purposes of this Act.

     TITLE I_SCHOOL-TO-WORK OPPORTUNITIES BASIC PROGRAM COMPONENTS

SEC. 101. GENERAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.

    A School-to-Work Opportunities program under this Act shall_
        (1) integrate school-based learning and work-based learning, as 
    provided for in sections 102 and 103, integrate academic and 
    occupational learning, and establish effective linkages between 
    secondary and postsecondary education;
        (2) provide participating students with the opportunity to 
    complete career majors;
        (3) incorporate the program components provided in sections 102 
    through 104;
        (4) provide participating students, to the extent practicable, 
    with strong experience in and understanding of all aspects of the 
    industry the students are preparing to enter; and
        (5) provide all students with equal access to the full range of 
    such program components (including both school-based and work-based 
    learning components) and related activities, such as recruitment, 
    enrollment, and placement activities, except that nothing in this 
    Act shall be construed to provide any individual with an 
    entitlement to services under this Act.

SEC. 102. SCHOOL-BASED LEARNING COMPONENT.

    The school-based learning component of a School-to-Work 
Opportunities program shall include_
        (1) career awareness and career exploration and counseling 
    (beginning at the earliest possible age, but not later than the 7th 
    grade) in order to help students who may be interested to identify, 
    and select or reconsider, their interests, goals, and career 
    majors, including those options that may not be traditional for 
    their gender, race, or ethnicity;
        (2) initial selection by interested students of a career major 
    not later than the beginning of the 11th grade;
        (3) a program of study designed to meet the same academic 
    content standards the State has established for all students, 
    including, where applicable, standards established under the Goals 
    2000: Educate America Act, and to meet the requirements necessary 
    to prepare a student for postsecondary education and the 
    requirements necessary for a student to earn a skill certificate;
        (4) a program of instruction and curriculum that integrates 
    academic and vocational learning (including applied methodologies 
    and team-teaching strategies), and incorporates instruction, to the 
    extent practicable, in all aspects of an industry, appropriately 
    tied to the career major of a participant;
        (5) regularly scheduled evaluations involving ongoing 
    consultation and problem solving with students and school dropouts 
    to identify their academic strengths and weaknesses, academic 
    progress, workplace knowledge, goals, and the need for additional 
    learning opportunities to master core academic and vocational 
    skills; and
        (6) procedures to facilitate the entry of students 
    participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program into 
    additional training or postsecondary education programs, as well as 
    to facilitate the transfer of the students between education and 
    training programs.

SEC. 103. WORK-BASED LEARNING COMPONENT.

    (a) Mandatory Activities._The work-based learning component of a 
School-to-Work Opportunities program shall include_
        (1) work experience;
        (2) a planned program of job training and work experiences 
    (including training related to preemployment and employment skills 
    to be mastered at progressively higher levels) that are coordinated 
    with learning in the school-based learning component described in 
    section 102 and are relevant to the career majors of students and 
    lead to the award of skill certificates;
        (3) workplace mentoring;
        (4) instruction in general workplace competencies, including 
    instruction and activities related to developing positive work 
    attitudes, and employability and participative skills; and
        (5) broad instruction, to the extent practicable, in all 
    aspects of the industry.
    (b) Permissible Activities._Such component may include such 
activities as paid work experience, job shadowing, school-sponsored 
enterprises, or on-the-job training.

SEC. 104. CONNECTING ACTIVITIES COMPONENT.

    The connecting activities component of a School-to-Work 
Opportunities program shall include_
        (1) matching students with the work-based learning 
    opportunities of employers;
        (2) providing, with respect to each student, a school site 
    mentor to act as a liaison among the student and the employer, 
    school, teacher, school administrator, and parent of the student, 
    and, if appropriate, other community partners;
        (3) providing technical assistance and services to employers, 
    including small- and medium-sized businesses, and other parties in_
            (A) designing school-based learning components described in 
        section 102, work-based learning components described in 
        section 103, and counseling and case management services; and
            (B) training teachers, workplace mentors, school site 
        mentors, and counselors;
        (4) providing assistance to schools and employers to integrate 
    school-based and work-based learning and integrate academic and 
    occupational learning into the program;
        (5) encouraging the active participation of employers, in 
    cooperation with local education officials, in the implementation 
    of local activities described in section 102, section 103, or this 
    section;
        (6)(A) providing assistance to participants who have completed 
    the program in finding an appropriate job, continuing their 
    education, or entering into an additional training program; and
        (B) linking the participants with other community services that 
    may be necessary to assure a successful transition from school to 
    work;
        (7) collecting and analyzing information regarding post-program 
    outcomes of participants in the School-to-Work Opportunities 
    program, to the extent practicable, on the basis of socioeconomic 
    status, race, gender, ethnicity, culture, and disability, and on 
    the basis of whether the participants are students with limited-
    English proficiency, school dropouts, disadvantaged students, or 
    academically talented students; and
        (8) linking youth development activities under this Act with 
    employer and industry strategies for upgrading the skills of their 
    workers.

     TITLE II_SCHOOL-TO-WORK OPPORTUNITIES SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT AND 
                    IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS TO STATES
                  Subtitle A_State Development Grants

SEC. 201. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to assist States in planning and 
developing comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
systems.

SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Grants to States._
        (1) In general._On the application of the Governor on behalf of 
    a State in accordance with section 203, the Secretaries may provide 
    a development grant to the State in such amounts as the Secretaries 
    determine to be necessary to enable such State to complete planning 
    and development of a comprehensive statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system.
        (2) Amount._The amount of a development grant under this 
    section may not exceed $1,000,000 for any fiscal year.
        (3) Completion._The Secretaries may provide such grant to 
    complete development of a statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
    systems initiated with funds received under the Job Training 
    Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Carl D. Perkins 
    Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et 
    seq.).
    (b) Grants to Territories._In providing grants under this section 
to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau, the 
Secretaries shall use amounts reserved under section 605(b)(1).

SEC. 203. APPLICATION.

    (a) In General._The Secretaries may not provide a development grant 
under section 202 to a State unless the Governor of the State, on 
behalf of the State, submits to the Secretaries an application, at such 
time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretaries 
may reasonably require.
    (b) Contents._Such application shall include_
        (1) a timetable and an estimate of the amount of funding needed 
    to complete the planning and development necessary to implement a 
    comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system for all 
    students;
        (2) a description of how_
            (A) the Governor;
            (B) the State educational agency;
            (C) the State agency officials responsible for economic 
        development;
            (D) the State agency officials responsible for employment;
            (E) the State agency officials responsible for job 
        training;
            (F) the State agency officials responsible for 
        postsecondary education;
            (G) the State agency officials responsible for vocational 
        education;
            (H) the State agency officials responsible for vocational 
        rehabilitation;
            (I) the individual assigned by the State under section 
        111(b)(1) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied 
        Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2321(b)(1));
            (J) other appropriate officials, including the State human 
        resource investment council established in accordance with 
        title VII of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1792 
        et seq.), if the State has established such a council; and
            (K) representatives of the private sector;
    will collaborate in the planning and development of the statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (3) a description of the manner in which the State has obtained 
    and will continue to obtain the active and continued participation, 
    in the planning and development of the statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system, of employers and other interested parties, 
    such as locally elected officials, secondary schools and 
    postsecondary educational institutions (or related agencies), 
    business associations, industrial extension centers, employees, 
    labor organizations or associations of such organizations, 
    teachers, related services personnel, students, parents, community-
    based organizations, rehabilitation agencies and organizations, 
    Indian tribes, registered apprenticeship agencies, vocational 
    educational agencies, vocational student organizations, and human 
    service agencies;
        (4) a description of the manner in which the State will 
    coordinate planning activities with any local school-to-work 
    programs, including programs funded under title III, if any;
        (5) a designation of a fiscal agent to receive and be 
    accountable for funds provided from a grant under section 202; and
        (6) a description of how the State will provide opportunities 
    for students from low-income families, low-achieving students, 
    students with limited-English proficiency, students with 
    disabilities, students living in rural communities with low 
    population densities, school dropouts, and academically talented 
    students to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs.
    (c) Coordination With Goals 2000: Educate America Act._A State 
seeking assistance under both this subtitle and the Goals 2000: Educate 
America Act may_
        (1) submit a single application containing plans that meet the 
    requirements of such subtitle and such Act and ensure that the 
    plans are coordinated and not duplicative; or
        (2) if such State has already submitted its application for 
    funds under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, submit its 
    application under this subtitle as an amendment to the Goals 2000: 
    Educate America Act application if such amendment meets the 
    requirements of this subtitle and is coordinated with and not 
    duplicative of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act application.

SEC. 204. APPROVAL OF APPLICATION.

    The Secretaries may approve an application submitted by a State 
under section 203 only if the State demonstrates in such application 
that the activities proposed to be undertaken by the State to develop a 
statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system are consistent with the 
State improvement plan for the State, if any, under the Goals 2000: 
Educate America Act.

SEC. 205. USE OF AMOUNTS.

    The Secretaries may not provide a development grant under section 
202 to a State unless the State agrees that the State will use all 
amounts received from such grant for activities to develop a statewide 
School-to-Work Opportunities system, which may include_
        (1) identifying or establishing an appropriate State structure 
    to administer the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (2) identifying secondary and postsecondary school-to-work 
    programs in existence on or after the date of the enactment of this 
    Act that might be incorporated into such system;
        (3) identifying or establishing broad-based partnerships among 
    employers, labor, education, government, and other community-based 
    organizations and parent organizations to participate in the 
    design, development, and administration of School-to-Work 
    Opportunities programs;
        (4) developing a marketing plan to build consensus and support 
    for such programs;
        (5) promoting the active involvement of business (including 
    small- and medium-sized businesses) in planning, developing, and 
    implementing local School-to-Work Opportunities programs, and in 
    establishing partnerships between business and elementary schools 
    and secondary schools (including middle schools);
        (6) identifying ways that local school-to-work programs in 
    existence on or after the date of the enactment of this Act could 
    be coordinated with the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
    system;
        (7) supporting local planning and development activities to 
    provide guidance, training and technical assistance for teachers, 
    employers, mentors, counselors, administrators, and others in the 
    development of School-to-Work Opportunities programs;
        (8) identifying or establishing mechanisms for providing 
    training and technical assistance to enhance the development of the 
    statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (9) developing a training and technical support system for 
    teachers, employers, mentors, counselors, related services 
    personnel, and others that includes specialized training and 
    technical support for the counseling and training of women, 
    minorities, and individuals with disabilities for high-skill, high-
    wage careers in nontraditional employment;
        (10) initiating pilot programs for testing key components of 
    the program design of programs under the statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system;
        (11) developing a State process for issuing skill certificates 
    that is, to the extent feasible, consistent with the skill 
    standards certification systems endorsed under the National Skill 
    Standards Act of 1994;
        (12) designing challenging curricula, in cooperation with 
    representatives of local partnerships, that take into account the 
    diverse learning needs and abilities of the student population 
    served by the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (13) developing a system for labor market analysis and 
    strategic planning for local targeting of industry sectors or broad 
    occupational clusters that can provide students with placements in 
    high-skill workplaces;
        (14) analyzing the post-high school employment experiences of 
    recent high school graduates and school dropouts;
        (15) preparing the plan described in section 213(d);
        (16) working with localities to develop strategies to recruit 
    and retain all students in programs under this Act through 
    collaborations with community-based organizations, where 
    appropriate, and other entities with expertise in working with such 
    students;
        (17) coordinating recruitment of out-of-school, at-risk, and 
    disadvantaged youths with those organizations and institutions that 
    have a successful history of working with such youths; and
        (18) providing technical assistance to rural areas in planning, 
    developing, and implementing local School-to-Work Opportunities 
    programs that meet the needs of rural communities with low 
    population densities.

SEC. 206. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.

    (a) In General._A State may receive a development grant under 
section 202 for a fiscal year only if the State provides assurances, 
satisfactory to the Secretaries, that_
        (1) the amount of State funds expended per student by the State 
    for school-to-work activities of the type described in title I for 
    the preceding fiscal year was not less than 90 percent of the 
    amount so expended for the second preceding fiscal year; or
        (2) the aggregate amount of State funds expended by the State 
    for such activities for the preceding fiscal year was not less than 
    90 percent of the amount so expended for the second preceding 
    fiscal year.
    (b) Waiver._
        (1) Determination._The Secretaries may jointly waive the 
    requirements described in subsection (a) for a State that requests 
    such a waiver if the Secretaries determine that such a waiver would 
    be equitable due to_
            (A) exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances such as a 
        natural disaster; or
            (B) a precipitous decline in the financial resources of the 
        State.
        (2) Request._To be eligible to receive such a waiver, a State 
    shall submit a request at such time, in such form, and containing 
    such information as the Secretaries may require.

SEC. 207. REPORTS.

    The Secretaries may not provide a development grant under section 
202 to a State unless the State agrees that the State will submit to 
the Secretaries such reports as the Secretaries may reasonably require, 
relating to the use of amounts from such grant, except that the 
Secretaries may not require more than 1 such report during any 3-month 
period.

                 Subtitle B_State Implementation Grants

SEC. 211. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to assist States in the 
implementation of comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
systems.

SEC. 212. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Grants to States._On the application of the Governor on behalf 
of a State in accordance with section 213, the Secretaries may provide 
an implementation grant to the State in such amounts as the Secretaries 
determine to be necessary to enable such State to implement a 
comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system.
    (b) Grants to Territories._In providing grants under this section 
to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
Guam, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Republic of Palau, the 
Secretaries shall use amounts reserved under section 605(b)(1).
    (c) Period of Grant._The provision of payments under a grant under 
subsection (a) shall not exceed 5 fiscal years and shall be subject to 
the annual approval of the Secretaries and subject to the availability 
of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the payments.
    (d) Limitation._A State shall be eligible to receive only 1 
implementation grant under subsection (a).

SEC. 213. APPLICATION.

    (a) In General._
        (1) Submission by governor on behalf of state._Subject to 
    paragraph (2), the Secretaries may not provide an implementation 
    grant under section 212 to a State unless the Governor of the 
    State, on behalf of the State, submits to the Secretaries an 
    application, at such time, in such form, and containing such 
    information as the Secretaries may reasonably require.
        (2) Review and comment by certain individuals and entities._If, 
    after a reasonable effort, the Governor is unable in accordance 
    with subsection (d)(4) to obtain the support of the individuals and 
    entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (J) of subsection 
    (b)(4) for the State plan described in subsection (d), then the 
    Governor shall_
            (A) provide such individuals and entities with copies of 
        such application;
            (B) allow such individuals and entities to submit to the 
        Governor, not later than the end of the 30-day period beginning 
        on the date on which the Governor provides such individuals and 
        entities with copies of such application under subparagraph 
        (A), comments on those portions of the plan that address 
        matters that, under State or other applicable law, are under 
        the jurisdiction of such individuals or entities; and
            (C) include any such comments in the application in 
        accordance with subsection (b)(5).
    (b) Contents._Such application shall include_
        (1) a plan for a comprehensive, statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system that meets the requirements of subsection (d);
        (2) a description of the manner in which the State will 
    allocate funds made available through such a grant to local 
    partnerships under section 215(b)(7);
        (3) a request, if the State decides to submit such a request, 
    for 1 or more waivers of certain statutory or regulatory 
    requirements, as provided for under title V;
        (4) a description of the manner in which_
            (A) the Governor;
            (B) the State educational agency;
            (C) the State agency officials responsible for economic 
        development;
            (D) the State agency officials responsible for employment;
            (E) the State agency officials responsible for job 
        training;
            (F) the State agency officials responsible for 
        postsecondary education;
            (G) the State agency officials responsible for vocational 
        education;
            (H) the State agency officials responsible for vocational 
        rehabilitation;
            (I) the individual assigned for the State under section 
        111(b)(1) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied 
        Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2321(b)(1));
            (J) other appropriate officials, including the State human 
        resource investment council established in accordance with 
        title VII of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1792 
        et seq.), if the State has established such a council; and
            (K) representatives of the private sector;
    collaborated in the development of the application;
        (5) the comments submitted to the Governor under subsection 
    (a)(2), where applicable; and
        (6) such other information as the Secretaries may require.
    (c) Coordination With Goals 2000: Educate America Act._A State 
seeking assistance under both this subtitle and the Goals 2000: Educate 
America Act may_
        (1) submit a single application containing plans that meet the 
    requirements of such subtitle and such Act and ensure that the 
    plans are coordinated and not duplicative; or
        (2) if such State has already submitted its application for 
    funds under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, submit its 
    application under this subtitle as an amendment to the Goals 2000: 
    Educate America Act application if such amendment meets the 
    requirements of this subtitle and is coordinated with and not 
    duplicative of the Goals 2000: Educate America Act application.
    (d) State Plan._A State plan referred to in subsection (b)(1) 
shall_
        (1) designate the geographical areas, including urban and rural 
    areas, to be served by local partnerships that receive grants under 
    section 215(b), which geographic areas shall, to the extent 
    feasible, reflect local labor market areas;
        (2) describe the manner in which the State will stimulate and 
    support local School-to-Work Opportunities programs and the manner 
    in which the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system will be 
    expanded over time to cover all geographic areas in the State, 
    including urban and rural areas;
        (3) describe the procedure by which the individuals and 
    entities described in subsection (b)(4) will collaborate in the 
    implementation of the School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (4) demonstrate the support of individuals and entities 
    described in subparagraphs (A) through (J) of subsection (b)(4) for 
    the plan, except in the case where the Governor is unable to obtain 
    the support of such individuals and entities as provided in 
    subsection (a)(2);
        (5) describe the manner in which the State has obtained and 
    will continue to obtain the active and continued involvement, in 
    the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system, of employers and 
    other interested parties such as locally elected officials, 
    secondary schools and postsecondary educational institutions (or 
    related agencies), business associations, industrial extension 
    centers, employees, labor organizations or associations of such 
    organizations, teachers, related services personnel, students, 
    parents, community-based organizations, rehabilitation agencies and 
    organizations, registered apprenticeship agencies, local vocational 
    educational agencies, vocational student organizations, State or 
    regional cooperative education associations, and human service 
    agencies;
        (6) describe the manner in which the statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system will coordinate with or integrate local 
    school-to-work programs in existence on or after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, including programs financed from State and 
    private sources, with funds available from such related Federal 
    programs as programs under_
            (A) the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.);
            (B) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology 
        Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
            (C) the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 2701 et seq.);
            (D) the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et 
        seq.);
            (E) part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 681 et seq.);
            (F) the Goals 2000: Educate America Act;
            (G) the National Skills Standards Act of 1994;
            (H) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1400 et seq.);
            (I) the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et 
        seq.);
            (J) the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the 
        ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 
        U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
            (K) the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.); 
        and
            (L) the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
        U.S.C. 12501 et seq.);
        (7) describe the strategy of the State for providing training 
    for teachers, employers, mentors, counselors, related services 
    personnel, and others, including specialized training and technical 
    support for the counseling and training of women, minorities, and 
    individuals with disabilities for high-skill, high-wage careers in 
    nontraditional employment, and provide assurances of coordination 
    with similar training and technical support under other provisions 
    of law;
        (8) describe how the State will adopt, develop, or assist local 
    partnerships to adopt or develop model curricula and innovative 
    instructional methodologies, to be used in the secondary, and where 
    possible, the elementary grades, that integrate academic and 
    vocational learning and promote career awareness, and that are 
    consistent with academic and skill standards established pursuant 
    to the Goals 2000: Educate America Act and the National Skill 
    Standards Act of 1994;
        (9) describe how the State will expand and improve career and 
    academic counseling in the elementary and secondary grades, which 
    may include linkages to career counseling and labor market 
    information services outside of the school system;
        (10) describe the strategy of the State for integrating 
    academic and vocational education;
        (11) describe the resources, including private sector 
    resources, the State intends to employ in maintaining the statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities system when funds under this Act are 
    no longer available;
        (12) describe the extent to which the statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system will include programs that will require paid 
    high-quality, work-based learning experiences, and the steps the 
    State will take to generate such paid experiences;
        (13) describe the manner in which the State will ensure 
    effective and meaningful opportunities for all students in the 
    State to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs;
        (14) describe the goals of the State and the methods the State 
    will use, such as awareness and outreach, to ensure opportunities 
    for young women to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities 
    programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, 
    high-paying jobs, including nontraditional employment, and goals to 
    ensure an environment free from racial and sexual harassment;
        (15) describe how the State will ensure opportunities for low 
    achieving students, students with disabilities, school dropouts, 
    and academically talented students to participate in School-to-Work 
    Opportunities programs;
        (16) describe the process of the State for assessing the skills 
    and knowledge required in career majors, and the process for 
    awarding skill certificates that is, to the extent feasible, 
    consistent with the skills standards certification systems endorsed 
    under the National Skill Standards Act of 1994;
        (17) describe the manner in which the State will ensure that 
    students participating in the programs are provided, to the 
    greatest extent possible, with flexibility to develop new career 
    goals over time and to change career majors;
        (18) describe the manner in which the State will, to the extent 
    feasible, continue programs funded under title III in the statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (19) describe how the State will serve students from rural 
    communities with low population densities;
        (20) describe how local School-to-Work Opportunities programs, 
    including those funded under title III, if any, will be integrated 
    into the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (21) describe the performance standards that the State intends 
    to meet in establishing and carrying out the statewide School-to-
    Work Opportunities system, including how such standards relate to 
    those performance standards established under other related 
    programs;
        (22) designate a fiscal agent to receive and be accountable for 
    funds provided from a grant under section 212; and
        (23) describe the procedures to facilitate the entry of 
    students participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program 
    into additional training or postsecondary education programs, as 
    well as to facilitate the transfer of the students between 
    education and training programs.

SEC. 214. REVIEW OF APPLICATION.

    (a) Considerations._In evaluating applications submitted under 
section 213, the Secretaries shall_
        (1) give priority to applications that describe the highest 
    levels of concurrence by the individuals and entities described in 
    section 213(b)(4) with the State plan for the statewide School-to-
    Work Opportunities system;
        (2) give priority to applications that require paid, high-
    quality work-based learning experiences as an integral part of such 
    system; and
        (3) take into consideration the quality of the application, 
    including the replicability, sustainability, and innovation of 
    School-to-Work Opportunities programs described in the application.
    (b) Approval Criteria._The Secretaries_
        (1) shall approve only those applications submitted under 
    section 213 that demonstrate the highest levels of collaboration by 
    the individuals and entities described in section 213(b)(4) in the 
    development and implementation of the statewide School-to-Work 
    system;
        (2) shall approve an application submitted under section 213 
    only if the State provides the assurances described in section 
    206(a) (relating to maintenance of effort) in accordance with such 
    section, except that this requirement may be waived in accordance 
    with section 206(b); and
        (3) may approve an application submitted under section 213 only 
    if the State demonstrates in the application_
            (A) that other Federal, State, and local resources will be 
        used to implement the proposed State plan;
            (B) the extent to which such plan would limit 
        administrative costs and increase amounts spent on delivery of 
        services to students enrolled in programs under this Act;
            (C) that the State, where appropriate, will ensure the 
        establishment of a partnership in at least 1 urban and 1 rural 
        area in the State; and
            (D) that the State plan contained in such application is 
        consistent with the State improvement plan for the State, if 
        any, under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act.
    (c) Actions._
        (1) In general._In reviewing each application submitted under 
    section 213, the Secretaries shall determine whether the 
    application and the plan described in such application meet the 
    approval criteria in subsection (b).
        (2) Actions after affirmative determination._If the 
    determination under paragraph (1) is affirmative, the Secretaries 
    may take 1 or more of the following actions:
            (A) Provide an implementation grant under section 212 to 
        the State submitting the application.
            (B) Approve the request of the State, if any, for a waiver 
        in accordance with the procedures set forth in title V.
        (3) Action after nonaffirmative determination._If the 
    determination under paragraph (1) is not affirmative, the 
    Secretaries shall inform the State of the opportunity to apply for 
    development funds under subtitle A in accordance with such 
    subtitle.
    (d) Use of Funds for Review of Applications._The Secretaries may 
use amounts reserved under section 605(b)(4) for the review of 
applications submitted under section 213.

SEC. 215. USE OF AMOUNTS.

    (a) In General._The Secretaries may not provide an implementation 
grant under section 212 to a State unless the State agrees that the 
State will use all amounts received from such grant to implement the 
statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Subgrants to Local Partnerships._
        (1) Authority._
            (A) In general._Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the 
        State shall provide subgrants to local partnerships, according 
        to criteria established by the State, for the purpose of 
        carrying out School-to-Work Opportunities programs.
            (B) Prohibition._The State shall not provide subgrants to 
        local partnerships that have received implementation grants 
        under title III, except that this prohibition shall not apply 
        with respect to local partnerships that are located in high 
        poverty areas, as such term is defined in section 307.
        (2) Application._A local partnership that seeks a subgrant to 
    carry out a local School-to-Work Opportunities program, including a 
    program initiated under section 302, shall submit an application to 
    the State that_
            (A) describes how the program will include the program 
        components described in sections 102, 103, and 104 and 
        otherwise meet the requirements of this Act;
            (B) sets forth measurable program goals and outcomes;
            (C) describes the local strategies and timetables of the 
        local partnership to provide opportunities for all students in 
        the area served to participate in a School-to-Work 
        Opportunities program;
            (D) describes the extent to which the program will require 
        paid high-quality, work-based learning experiences, and the 
        steps the local partnerships will take to generate such paid 
        experiences;
            (E) describes the process that will be used to ensure 
        employer involvement in the development and implementation of 
        the local School-to-Work Opportunities program;
            (F) provides assurances that, to the extent practicable, 
        opportunities provided to students to participate in a School-
        to-Work Opportunities program will be in industries and 
        occupations offering high-skill, high-wage employment 
        opportunities;
            (G) provides such other information as the State may 
        require; and
            (H) is submitted at such time and in such form as the State 
        may require.
        (3) Disapproval of application._If the State determines that an 
    application submitted by a local partnership does not meet the 
    criteria under paragraph (2), or that the application is incomplete 
    or otherwise unsatisfactory, the State shall_
            (A) notify the local partnership of the reasons for the 
        failure to approve the application; and
            (B) permit the local partnership to resubmit a corrected or 
        amended application.
        (4) Allowable activities._A local partnership shall expend 
    funds provided through subgrants under this subsection only for 
    activities undertaken to carry out local School-to-Work 
    Opportunities programs, and such activities may include, for each 
    such program_
            (A) recruiting and providing assistance to employers, 
        including small- and medium-size businesses, to provide the 
        work-based learning components described in section 103;
            (B) establishing consortia of employers to support the 
        School-to-Work Opportunities program and provide access to jobs 
        related to the career majors of students;
            (C) supporting or establishing intermediaries (selected 
        from among the members of the local partnership) to perform the 
        activities described in section 104 and to provide assistance 
        to students or school dropouts in obtaining jobs and further 
        education and training;
            (D) designing or adapting school curricula that can be used 
        to integrate academic, vocational, and occupational learning, 
        school-based and work-based learning, and secondary and 
        postsecondary education for all students in the area served;
            (E) providing training to work-based and school-based staff 
        on new curricula, student assessments, student guidance, and 
        feedback to the school regarding student performance;
            (F) establishing, in schools participating in the School-
        to-Work Opportunities program, a graduation assistance program 
        to assist at-risk students, low-achieving students, and 
        students with disabilities, in graduating from high school, 
        enrolling in postsecondary education or training, and finding 
        or advancing in jobs;
            (G) providing career exploration and awareness services, 
        counseling and mentoring services, college awareness and 
        preparation services, and other services (beginning at the 
        earliest possible age, but not later than the 7th grade) to 
        prepare students for the transition from school to work;
            (H) providing supplementary and support services, including 
        child care and transportation, when such services are necessary 
        for participation in a local School-to-Work Opportunities 
        program;
            (I) conducting or obtaining an in-depth analysis of the 
        local labor market and the generic and specific skill needs of 
        employers to identify high-demand, high-wage careers to target;
            (J) integrating school-based and work-based learning into 
        job training programs that are for school dropouts and that are 
        in existence on or after the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (K) establishing or expanding school-to-apprenticeship 
        programs in cooperation with registered apprenticeship agencies 
        and apprenticeship sponsors;
            (L) assisting participating employers, including small- and 
        medium-size businesses, to identify and train workplace mentors 
        and to develop work-based learning components;
            (M) promoting the formation of partnerships between 
        elementary schools and secondary schools (including middle 
        schools) and local businesses as an investment in future 
        workplace productivity and competitiveness;
            (N) designing local strategies to provide adequate planning 
        time and staff development activities for teachers, school 
        counselors, related services personnel, and school site 
        mentors, including opportunities outside the classroom that are 
        at the worksite;
            (O) enhancing linkages between after-school, weekend, and 
        summer jobs, career exploration, and school-based learning; and
            (P) obtaining the assistance of organizations and 
        institutions that have a history of success in working with 
        school dropouts and at-risk and disadvantaged youths in 
        recruiting such school dropouts and youths to participate in 
        the local School-to-Work Opportunities program.
        (5) Local partnership compact._The State may not provide a 
    subgrant under paragraph (1) to a local partnership unless the 
    partnership agrees that the local partnership will establish a 
    process by which the responsibilities and expectations of students, 
    parents, employers, and schools are clearly established and agreed 
    upon at the point of entry of the student into a career major 
    program of study.
        (6) Administrative costs._The local partnership may not use 
    more than 10 percent of amounts received from a subgrant under 
    paragraph (1) for any fiscal year for administrative costs 
    associated with activities in carrying out, but not including, 
    activities under paragraphs (4) and (5) for such fiscal year.
        (7) Allocation requirements._
            (A) First year._In the 1st fiscal year for which a State 
        receives amounts from a grant under section 212, the State 
        shall use not less than 70 percent of such amounts to provide 
        subgrants to local partnerships under paragraph (1).
            (B) Second year._In the 2d fiscal year for which a State 
        receives amounts from a grant under section 212, the State 
        shall use not less than 80 percent of such amounts to provide 
        subgrants to local partnerships under paragraph (1).
            (C) Third year and succeeding years._In the 3d fiscal year 
        for which a State receives amounts from a grant under section 
        212, and in each succeeding year, the State shall use not less 
        than 90 percent of such amounts to provide subgrants to local 
        partnerships under paragraph (1).
    (c) Additional State Activities._In carrying out the statewide 
School-to-Work Opportunities system, the State may also_
        (1) recruit and provide assistance to employers to provide 
    work-based learning for all students;
        (2) conduct outreach activities to promote and support 
    collaboration, in School-to-Work Opportunities programs, by 
    businesses, labor organizations, and other organizations;
        (3) provide training for teachers, employers, workplace 
    mentors, school site mentors, counselors, related services 
    personnel, and other parties;
        (4) provide labor market information to local partnerships that 
    is useful in determining which high-skill, high-wage occupations 
    are in demand;
        (5) design or adapt model curricula that can be used to 
    integrate academic, vocational, and occupational learning, school-
    based and work-based learning, and secondary and postsecondary 
    education, for all students in the State;
        (6) design or adapt model work-based learning programs and 
    identify best practices for such programs;
        (7) conduct outreach activities and provide technical 
    assistance to other States that are developing or implementing 
    School-to-Work Opportunities systems;
        (8) reorganize and streamline school-to-work programs in the 
    State to facilitate the development of a comprehensive statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities system;
        (9) identify ways that local school-to-work programs in 
    existence on or after the date of the enactment of this Act could 
    be integrated with the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
    system;
        (10) design career awareness and exploration activities 
    (beginning at the earliest possible age, but not later than the 7th 
    grade), such as job shadowing, job site visits, school visits by 
    individuals in various occupations, and mentoring;
        (11) design and implement school-sponsored work experiences, 
    such as school-sponsored enterprises and community development 
    projects;
        (12) promote the formation of partnerships between elementary 
    schools and secondary schools (including middle schools) and local 
    businesses as an investment in future workplace productivity and 
    competitiveness;
        (13) obtain the assistance of organizations and institutions 
    that have a history of success in working with school dropouts and 
    at-risk and disadvantaged youths in recruiting such school dropouts 
    and youths to participate in the statewide School-to-Work 
    Opportunities system;
        (14) conduct outreach to all students in a manner that most 
    appropriately meets their needs and the needs of their communities; 
    and
        (15) provide career exploration and awareness services, 
    counseling and mentoring services, college awareness and 
    preparation services, and other services (beginning at the earliest 
    possible age, but not later than the 7th grade) to prepare students 
    for the transition from school to work.

SEC. 216. ALLOCATION REQUIREMENT.

    The Secretaries shall establish the minimum and maximum amounts 
available for an implementation grant under section 212, and shall 
determine the actual amount granted to any State under such section, 
based on such criteria as the scope and quality of the plan described 
in section 213(d) and the number of projected participants in programs 
carried out through the system.

SEC. 217. LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.

    A State that receives an implementation grant under section 212 may 
not use more than 10 percent of the amounts received through the grant 
for any fiscal year for administrative costs associated with 
implementing the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system for such 
fiscal year.

SEC. 218. REPORTS.

    The Secretaries may not provide an implementation grant under 
section 212 to a State unless the State agrees that the State will 
submit to the Secretaries such reports as the Secretaries may 
reasonably require, relating to the use of amounts from such grant, 
except that the Secretaries may not require more than 1 such report 
during any 3-month period.

  Subtitle C_Development and Implementation Grants for School-to-Work 
                       Programs for Indian Youths

SEC. 221. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General._From amounts reserved under section 605(b)(2), the 
Secretaries shall provide grants to establish and carry out School-to-
Work Opportunities programs for Indian youths that involve Bureau 
funded schools (as defined in section 1139(3) of the Education 
Amendments of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 2019(3))).
    (b) Additional Authorities._The Secretaries may carry out 
subsection (a) through such means as the Secretaries find appropriate, 
including_
        (1) the transfer of funds to the Secretary of the Interior; and
        (2) the provision of financial assistance to Indian tribes and 
    Indian organizations.

SEC. 222. REQUIREMENTS.

    In providing grants under section 221, the Secretaries shall 
require recipients of such grants to comply with requirements similar 
to those requirements imposed on States under subtitles A and B of this 
title.

     TITLE III_FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS TO LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS

SEC. 301. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are_
        (1) to authorize the Secretaries to provide competitive grants 
    directly to local partnerships in order to provide funding for 
    communities that have built a sound planning and development base 
    for School-to-Work Opportunities programs and are ready to begin 
    implementing a local School-to-Work Opportunities program; and
        (2) to authorize the Secretaries to provide competitive grants 
    to local partnerships to implement School-to-Work Opportunities 
    programs in high poverty areas of urban and rural communities to 
    provide support for a comprehensive range of education, training, 
    and support services for youths residing in such areas.

SEC. 302. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Grants to Local Partnerships._
        (1) In general._Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretaries may 
    provide implementation grants, in accordance with competitive 
    criteria established by the Secretaries, directly to local 
    partnerships in States in such amounts as the Secretaries determine 
    to be necessary to enable such partnerships to implement School-to-
    Work Opportunities programs.
        (2) Restrictions._A local partnership_
            (A) shall be eligible to receive only 1 grant under this 
        subsection; and
            (B) shall not be eligible to receive a grant under this 
        subsection if such partnership is located in a State that_
                (i) has been provided an implementation grant under 
            section 212; and
                (ii) has received amounts from such grant for any 
            fiscal year after the 1st fiscal year under such grant.
    (b) Grants to Local Partnerships in High Poverty Areas._
        (1) In general._Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
    Secretaries shall, from amounts reserved under section 605(b)(3), 
    provide grants to local partnerships that are located in high 
    poverty areas in States in such amounts as the Secretaries 
    determine to be necessary to enable such partnerships to implement 
    School-to-Work Opportunities programs in such areas.
        (2) Restriction._A local partnership shall be eligible to 
    receive only 1 grant under this subsection.
        (3) Priority._In providing grants under paragraph (1), the 
    Secretaries shall give priority to local partnerships that have a 
    demonstrated effectiveness in the delivery of comprehensive 
    vocational preparation programs with successful rates in job 
    placement through cooperative activities among local educational 
    agencies, local businesses, labor organizations, and other 
    organizations.
    (c) Period of Grant._The provision of payments under a grant under 
subsection (a) or (b) shall not exceed 5 fiscal years and shall be 
subject to the annual approval of the Secretaries and subject to the 
availability of appropriations for the fiscal year involved to make the 
payments.

SEC. 303. APPLICATION.

    (a) In General._A local partnership that desires to receive a 
Federal implementation grant under section 302 shall submit an 
application to the Secretaries at such time and in such form as the 
Secretaries may require. The local partnership shall submit the 
application to the State for review and comment before submitting the 
application to the Secretaries.
    (b) Time Limit for State Review and Comment._
        (1) In general._The State shall provide for review and comment 
    on the application under subsection (a) not later than 30 days 
    after the date on which the State receives the application from the 
    local partnership.
        (2) Submission without state review and comment._If the State 
    does not provide review and comment within the 30-day time period 
    specified in paragraph (1), the local partnership may submit the 
    application to the Secretaries without first obtaining such review 
    and comment.
    (c) Contents._The application described in subsection (a) shall 
include a plan for local School-to-Work Opportunities programs that_
        (1) describes the manner in which the local partnership will 
    meet the requirements of this Act;
        (2) includes the comments of the State on the plan, if any;
        (3) contains information that is consistent with the 
    information required to be submitted as part of a State plan in 
    accordance with paragraphs (5) through (17) and paragraph (23) of 
    section 213(d);
        (4) designates a fiscal agent to receive and be accountable for 
    funds under this section; and
        (5) provides such other information as the Secretaries may 
    require.
    (d) Use of Funds for Review of Applications._The Secretaries may 
use amounts reserved under section 605(b)(4) for the review of 
applications submitted under subsection (a).

SEC. 304. USE OF AMOUNTS.

    The Secretaries may not provide an implementation grant under 
section 302 to a local partnership unless the partnership agrees that 
it will use all amounts from such grant to carry out activities to 
implement a School-to-Work Opportunities program, including the 
activities described in section 215(b)(4).
    SEC. 305. CONFORMITY WITH APPROVED STATE PLAN.
    The Secretaries shall not provide a grant under section 302 to a 
local partnership in a State that has an approved State plan unless the 
Secretaries determine, after consultation with the State, that the plan 
submitted by the partnership is in accordance with such approved State 
plan.

SEC. 306. REPORTS.

    The Secretaries may not provide an implementation grant under 
section 302 to a local partnership unless the partnership agrees that 
the local partnership will submit to the Secretaries such reports as 
the Secretaries may reasonably require, relating to the use of amounts 
from such grant, except that the Secretaries may not require more than 
1 such report during any 3-month period.

SEC. 307. HIGH POVERTY AREA DEFINED.

    For purposes of this title, the term ``high poverty area'' means an 
urban census tract, a contiguous group of urban census tracts, a block 
number area in a nonmetropolitan county, a contiguous group of block 
number areas in a nonmetropolitan county, or an Indian reservation (as 
defined in section 403(9) of the Indian Child Protection and Family 
Violence Prevention Act (25 U.S.C. 3202(9))), with a poverty rate of 20 
percent or more among individuals who have not attained the age of 22, 
as determined by the Bureau of the Census.

                       TITLE IV_NATIONAL PROGRAMS

    SEC. 401. RESEARCH, DEMONSTRATION, AND OTHER PROJECTS.
    (a) In General._The Secretaries shall conduct research and 
development projects and establish a program of experimental and 
demonstration projects, to further the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Additional Use of Funds._The Secretaries may provide assistance 
for programs or services authorized under any other provision of this 
Act that are most appropriately administered at the national level and 
that will operate in, or benefit, more than 1 State.
    SEC. 402. PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES AND EVALUATION.
    (a) In General._The Secretaries, in collaboration with the States, 
shall by grant, contract, or otherwise, establish a system of 
performance measures for assessing State and local programs regarding_
        (1) progress in the development and implementation of State 
    plans described in section 213(d) that include the basic program 
    components described in sections 102, 103, and 104 and otherwise 
    meet the requirements of title I;
        (2) participation in School-to-Work Opportunities programs by 
    employers, schools, students, and school dropouts, including 
    information on the gender, race, ethnicity, socioeconomic 
    background, limited-English proficiency, and disability of all 
    participants and whether the participants are academically talented 
    students;
        (3) progress in developing and implementing strategies for 
    addressing the needs of students and school dropouts;
        (4) progress in meeting the goals of the State to ensure 
    opportunities for young women to participate in School-to-Work 
    Opportunities programs, including participation in nontraditional 
    employment through such programs;
        (5) outcomes for participating students and school dropouts, by 
    gender, race, ethnicity, socioeconomic background, limited-English 
    proficiency, and disability of the participants, and whether the 
    participants are academically talented students, including 
    information on_
            (A) academic learning gains;
            (B) staying in school and attaining_
                (i) a high school diploma, or a general equivalency 
            diploma, or an alternative diploma or certificate for those 
            students with disabilities for whom such alternative 
            diploma or certificate is appropriate;
                (ii) a skill certificate; and
                (iii) a postsecondary degree;
            (C) attainment of strong experience in and understanding of 
        all aspects of the industry the students are preparing to 
        enter;
            (D) placement and retention in further education or 
        training, particularly in the career major of the student; and
            (E) job placement, retention, and earnings, particularly in 
        the career major of the student; and
        (6) the extent to which the program has met the needs of 
    employers.
    (b) Evaluation._Not later than September 30, 1998, the Secretaries 
shall complete a national evaluation of School-to-Work Opportunities 
programs funded under this Act by grants, contracts, or otherwise, that 
will track and assess the progress of implementation of State and local 
programs and their effectiveness based on measures such as those 
measures described in subsection (a).
    (c) Reports to the Secretaries._
        (1) In general._Each State shall prepare and submit to the 
    Secretaries periodic reports, at such intervals as the Secretaries 
    may determine, containing information regarding the matters 
    described in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a).
        (2) Federal programs._Each State shall prepare and submit 
    reports to the Secretaries, at such intervals as the Secretaries 
    may determine, containing information on the extent to which 
    Federal programs that are in existence on the date of submission of 
    the report and that are implemented at the State or local level may 
    be duplicative, outdated, overly restrictive, or otherwise 
    counterproductive to the development of comprehensive statewide 
    School-to-Work Opportunities systems.

SEC. 403. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Purpose._The Secretaries shall work in cooperation with the 
States, the individuals assigned under section 111(b)(1) of the Carl D. 
Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
2321(b)(1)), employers and their associations, secondary schools and 
postsecondary educational institutions, student and teacher 
organizations, labor organizations, and community-based organizations, 
to increase their capacity to develop and implement effective School-
to-Work Opportunities programs.
    (b) Authorized Activities._The Secretaries shall provide, through 
grants, contracts, or otherwise_
        (1) training, technical assistance, and other activities that 
    will_
            (A) enhance the skills, knowledge, and expertise of the 
        personnel involved in planning and implementing State and local 
        School-to-Work Opportunities programs, such as training of the 
        personnel to assist students; and
            (B) improve the quality of services provided to individuals 
        served under this Act;
        (2) assistance to States and local partnerships involved in 
    carrying out School-to-Work Opportunities programs in order to 
    integrate resources available under this Act with resources 
    available under other Federal, State, and local authorities;
        (3) assistance to States and such local partnerships, including 
    local partnerships in rural communities with low population 
    densities or in urban areas, to recruit employers to provide the 
    work-based learning component, described in section 103, of School-
    to-Work Opportunities programs; and
        (4) assistance to States and local partnerships involved in 
    carrying out School-to-Work Opportunities programs to design and 
    implement school-sponsored enterprises.
    SEC. 404. CAPACITY BUILDING AND INFORMATION AND DISSEMINATION 
      NETWORK.
    The Secretaries, acting through such mechanisms as the Capacity 
Building and Information and Dissemination Network established under 
section 453(b) of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1733(b)), 
the Educational Resources Information Center Clearinghouses referred to 
in the Educational Research, Development, Dissemination, and 
Improvement Act of 1994, and the National Network for Curriculum 
Coordination in Vocational and Technical Education under section 402(c) 
of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act 
(20 U.S.C. 2402(c)), shall_
        (1) collect and disseminate information_
            (A) on successful School-to-Work Opportunities programs and 
        innovative school- and work-based curricula;
            (B) on research and evaluation conducted concerning school-
        to-work activities;
            (C) that will assist States and local partnerships in 
        undertaking labor market analysis, surveys, or other activities 
        related to economic development;
            (D) on skill certificates, skill standards, and related 
        assessment technologies; and
            (E) on methods for recruiting and building the capacity of 
        employers to provide work-based learning opportunities; and
        (2) facilitate communication and the exchange of information 
    and ideas among States and local partnerships carrying out School-
    to-Work Opportunities programs.

SEC. 405. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) In General._Not later than 24 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 12 months thereafter, the Secretaries 
shall prepare and submit a report to the Congress on all activities 
carried out pursuant to this Act.
    (b) Contents._The Secretaries shall, at a minimum, include in each 
such report_
        (1) information concerning the programs that receive assistance 
    under this Act;
        (2) a summary of the information contained in the State and 
    local partnership reports submitted under titles II and III and 
    section 402(c); and
        (3) information regarding the findings and actions taken as a 
    result of any evaluation conducted by the Secretaries.

SEC. 406. FUNDING.

    The Secretaries shall use funds reserved under section 605(b)(4) to 
carry out activities under this title.

        TITLE V_WAIVER OF STATUTORY AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

    SEC. 501. STATE AND LOCAL PARTNERSHIP REQUESTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
      FOR WAIVERS.
    (a) State Request for Waiver._A State may submit to the Secretaries 
a request for a waiver of 1 or more requirements of the provisions of 
law referred to in sections 502 and 503, or of the regulations issued 
under such provisions, in order to carry out the statewide School-to-
Work Opportunities system established by such State under subtitle B of 
title II. The State may submit the request as a part of the application 
described in section 213 (or as an amendment to the application at any 
time after submission of the application). Such request may include a 
request for different waivers with respect to different areas within 
the State.
    (b) Local Partnership Request for Waiver._
        (1) In general._A local partnership that seeks a waiver of such 
    a requirement shall submit an application for such waiver to the 
    State, and the State shall determine whether to submit a request 
    for a waiver to the Secretaries, as provided in subsection (a).
        (2) Time limit._
            (A) In general._The State shall make a determination to 
        submit or not submit the request for a waiver under paragraph 
        (1) not later than 30 days after the date on which the State 
        receives the application from the local partnership.
            (B) Direct submission._
                (i) In general._If the State does not make a 
            determination to submit or not submit the request within 
            the 30-day time period specified in subparagraph (A), the 
            local partnership may submit the application to the 
            Secretaries.
                (ii) Requirements._In submitting such an application, 
            the local partnership shall obtain the agreement of the 
            State involved to comply with the requirements of section 
            502(a)(1)(C) or 503(a)(1)(C), as appropriate, and comply 
            with the other requirements of section 502 or 503, as 
            appropriate, and of subsections (c) and (d), that would 
            otherwise apply to a State submitting a request for a 
            waiver. In reviewing such an application, the Secretaries 
            shall comply with the requirements of such section and such 
            subsections that would otherwise apply to the Secretaries 
            with respect to review of such a request.
    (c) Waiver Criteria._Any such request by the State shall meet the 
criteria contained in section 502 or 503 and shall specify the 
provisions or regulations referred to in such sections with respect to 
which the State seeks a waiver.
    (d) Support by Appropriate State Agencies._In requesting such a 
waiver, the State shall provide evidence of support for the waiver 
request by the State agencies or officials with jurisdiction over the 
provisions or regulations that would be waived.
    SEC. 502. WAIVER AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF EDUCATION.
    (a) Waiver Authority._
        (1) In general._Except as provided in subsection (c), the 
    Secretary of Education may waive any requirement under any 
    provision of law referred to in subsection (b), or of any 
    regulation issued under such provision, for a State that requests 
    such a waiver and has an approved State plan_
            (A) if, and only to the extent that, the Secretary of 
        Education determines that such requirement impedes the ability 
        of the State or a local partnership to carry out the purposes 
        of this Act;
            (B) if the State provides the Secretary of Education with 
        documentation of the necessity for the waiver, including 
        information concerning_
                (i) the specific requirement that will be waived;
                (ii) the specific positive outcomes expected from the 
            waiver and why those outcomes cannot be achieved while 
            complying with the requirement;
                (iii) the process that will be used to monitor the 
            progress of the State or local partnership in implementing 
            the waiver; and
                (iv) such other information as the Secretary of 
            Education may require;
            (C) if the State waives, or agrees to waive, similar 
        requirements of State law; and
            (D) if the State_
                (i) has provided all local partnerships that carry out 
            programs under this Act, and local educational agencies 
            participating in such a local partnership, in the State 
            with notice and an opportunity to comment on the proposal 
            of the State to seek a waiver;
                (ii) provides, to the extent feasible, to students, 
            parents, advocacy and civil rights groups, and labor and 
            business organizations an opportunity to comment on the 
            proposal of the State to seek a waiver; and
                (iii) has submitted the comments of the local 
            partnerships and local educational agencies to the 
            Secretary of Education.
        (2) Approval or disapproval._The Secretary of Education shall 
    promptly approve or disapprove any request submitted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) and shall issue a decision that shall_
            (A) include the reasons for approving or disapproving the 
        request, including a response to comments on the proposal; and
            (B) in the case of a decision to approve the request, be 
        disseminated by the State seeking the waiver to interested 
        parties, including educators, parents, students, advocacy and 
        civil rights organizations, labor and business organizations, 
        and the public.
        (3) Approval criteria._In approving a request under paragraph 
    (2), the Secretary of Education shall consider the amount of State 
    resources that will be used to implement the approved State plan.
        (4) Term._Each waiver approved pursuant to this subsection 
    shall be for a period not to exceed 5 years, except that the 
    Secretary of Education may extend such period if the Secretary of 
    Education determines that the waiver has been effective in enabling 
    the State or local partnership to carry out the purposes of this 
    Act.
    (b) Included Programs._The provisions subject to the waiver 
authority of this section are_
        (1) chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), including the Even 
    Start programs carried out under part B of such chapter (20 U.S.C. 
    2741 et seq.);
        (2) part A of chapter 2 of title I of the Elementary and 
    Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2921 et seq.);
        (3) part A of title II of the Elementary and Secondary 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2981 et seq.);
        (4) part D of title IV of the Elementary and Secondary 
    Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 3121 et seq.);
        (5) title V of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
    1965 (20 U.S.C. 3171 et seq.); and
        (6) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology 
    Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.).
    (c) Waivers Not Authorized._The Secretary of Education may not 
waive any requirement of any provision referred to in subsection (b), 
or of any regulation issued under such provision, relating to_
        (1) the basic purposes or goals of such provision;
        (2) maintenance of effort;
        (3) comparability of services;
        (4) the equitable participation of students attending private 
    schools;
        (5) student and parental participation and involvement;
        (6) the distribution of funds to State or local educational 
    agencies;
        (7) the eligibility of an individual for participation in a 
    program under such provision;
        (8) public health or safety, labor standards, civil rights, 
    occupational safety and health, or environmental protection; or
        (9) prohibitions or restrictions relating to the construction 
    of buildings or facilities.
    (d) Termination of Waivers._The Secretary of Education shall 
periodically review the performance of any State, local partnership, or 
local educational agency, for which the Secretary of Education has 
granted a waiver under this section and shall terminate the waiver 
under this section if the Secretary of Education determines that the 
performance of the State, local partnership, or local educational 
agency that is affected by the waiver has been inadequate to justify a 
continuation of the waiver, or the State fails to waive similar 
requirements of State law as required or agreed to in accordance with 
subsection (a)(1)(C).
    SEC. 503. WAIVER AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF LABOR.
    (a) Waiver Authority._
        (1) In general._Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
    Secretary of Labor may waive any requirement under any provision of 
    the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), or of 
    any regulation issued under such provision, for a State that 
    requests such a waiver and has an approved State plan_
            (A) if, and only to the extent that, the Secretary of Labor 
        determines that such requirement impedes the ability of the 
        State or a local partnership to carry out the purposes of this 
        Act;
            (B) if the State provides the Secretary of Labor with 
        documentation of the necessity for the waiver, including 
        information concerning_
                (i) the specific requirement that will be waived;
                (ii) the specific positive outcomes expected from the 
            waiver and why those outcomes cannot be achieved while 
            complying with the requirement;
                (iii) the process that will be used to monitor the 
            progress of the State or local partnership in implementing 
            the waiver; and
                (iv) such other information as the Secretary of Labor 
            may require;
            (C) if the State waives, or agrees to waive, similar 
        requirements of State law; and
            (D) if the State_
                (i) has provided all local partnerships that carry out 
            programs under this Act in the State with notice and an 
            opportunity to comment on the proposal of the State to seek 
            a waiver;
                (ii) provides, to the extent feasible, to students, 
            parents, advocacy and civil rights groups, and labor and 
            business organizations an opportunity to comment on the 
            proposal of the State to seek a waiver; and
                (iii) has submitted the comments of the local 
            partnerships to the Secretary of Labor.
        (2) Approval or disapproval._The Secretary of Labor shall 
    promptly approve or disapprove any request submitted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) and shall issue a decision that shall_
            (A) include the reasons for approving or disapproving the 
        request, including a response to comments on the proposal; and
            (B) in the case of a decision to approve the request, be 
        disseminated by the State seeking the waiver to interested 
        parties, including educators, parents, students, advocacy and 
        civil rights organizations, labor and business organizations, 
        and the public.
        (3) Approval criteria._In approving a request under paragraph 
    (2), the Secretary of Labor shall consider the amount of State 
    resources that will be used to implement the approved State plan.
        (4) Term._Each waiver approved pursuant to this subsection 
    shall be for a period not to exceed 5 years, except that the 
    Secretary of Labor may extend such period if the Secretary of Labor 
    determines that the waiver has been effective in enabling the State 
    or local partnership to carry out the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Waivers Not Authorized._The Secretary of Labor may not waive 
any requirement under any provision of the Job Training Partnership Act 
(29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), or of any regulation issued under such 
provision, relating to_
        (1) the basic purposes or goals of such provision;
        (2) maintenance of effort;
        (3) the distribution of funds;
        (4) the eligibility of an individual for participation in a 
    program under such provision;
        (5) public health or safety, labor standards, civil rights, 
    occupational safety and health, or environmental protection; or
        (6) prohibitions or restrictions relating to the construction 
    of buildings or facilities.
    (c) Termination of Waivers._The Secretary of Labor shall 
periodically review the performance of any State or local partnership 
for which the Secretary of Labor has granted a waiver under this 
section and shall terminate the waiver under this section if the 
Secretary of Labor determines that the performance of the State or 
local partnership affected by the waiver has been inadequate to justify 
a continuation of the waiver, or the State fails to waive similar 
requirements of State law as required or agreed to in accordance with 
subsection (a)(1)(C).
    SEC. 504. COMBINATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS FOR HIGH POVERTY SCHOOLS.
    (a) In General._
        (1) Purposes._The purposes of this section are_
            (A) to integrate activities under this Act with school-to-
        work activities carried out under other Acts; and
            (B) to maximize the effective use of resources.
        (2) Combination of funds._To carry out such purposes, a local 
    partnership that receives assistance under title II or III may 
    carry out schoolwide school-to-work activities in schools that meet 
    the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 263(g)(1) 
    of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1643(g)(1) (A) and 
    (B)) with funds obtained by combining_
            (A) Federal funds under this Act; and
            (B) other Federal funds made available from among programs 
        under_
                (i) the provisions of law listed in paragraphs (2) 
            through (6) of section 502(b); and
                (ii) the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 
            et seq.).
    (b) Use of Funds._A local partnership may use the Federal funds 
combined under subsection (a) under the requirements of this Act, 
except that the provisions relating to the matters specified in 
paragraphs (1) through (6) and paragraphs (8) and (9) of section 
502(c), and paragraphs (1) through (3) and paragraphs (5) and (6) of 
section 503(b), that relate to the program through which the funds 
described in subsection (a)(2)(B) were made available, shall remain in 
effect with respect to the use of such funds.
    (c) Additional Information in Application._A local partnership 
seeking to combine funds under subsection (a) shall include in the 
application of the local partnership under title II or III_
        (1) a description of the funds the local partnership proposes 
    to combine under the requirements of this Act;
        (2) the activities to be carried out with such funds;
        (3) the specific outcomes expected of participants in 
    schoolwide school-to-work activities; and
        (4) such other information as the State, or Secretaries, as the 
    case may be, may require.
    (d) Provision of Information._The local partnership shall, to the 
extent feasible, provide information on the proposed combination of 
Federal funds under subsection (a) to educators, parents, students, 
advocacy and civil rights organizations, labor and business 
organizations, and the public.
    SEC. 505. COMBINATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS BY STATES FOR SCHOOL-TO-WORK 
      ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General._
        (1) Purposes._The purposes of this section are_
            (A) to integrate activities under this Act with State 
        school-to-work activities carried out under other Acts; and
            (B) to maximize the effective use of resources.
        (2) Combination of funds._To carry out such purposes, a State 
    that has an approved State plan may carry out activities necessary 
    to develop and implement a statewide School-to-Work Opportunities 
    system with funds obtained by combining_
            (A) Federal funds under this Act; and
            (B) other Federal funds that are made available under_
                (i) section 102(a)(3) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational 
            Education and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
            2312(a)(3));
                (ii) section 202(c)(1)(C) or section 262(c)(1)(C) of 
            the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1602(c)(1)(C) 
            or 1642(c)(1)(C));
                (iii) section 202(c)(1)(B) of the Job Training 
            Partnership Act that would otherwise be available for the 
            purposes described in section 202(c)(3) of such Act; or
                (iv) section 262(c)(1)(B) of the Job Training 
            Partnership Act that would otherwise be available for the 
            purposes described in section 262(c)(3) of such Act.
    (b) Use of Funds._A State may use, under the requirements of this 
Act, Federal funds that are made available to the State and combined 
under subsection (a) to carry out school-to-work activities, except 
that the provisions relating to the matters specified in section 
502(c), and section 503(b), that relate to the program through which 
the funds described in subsection (a)(2)(B) were made available, shall 
remain in effect with respect to the use of such funds.
    (c) Additional Information in Application._A State seeking to 
combine funds under subsection (a) shall include in the application 
described in section 213_
        (1) a description of the funds the State proposes to combine 
    under the requirements of this Act;
        (2) the activities to be carried out with such funds;
        (3) the specific outcomes expected of participants in school-
    to-work activities;
        (4) formal evidence of support for the request by the State 
    agencies or officials with jurisdiction over the funds that would 
    be combined; and
        (5) such other information as the Secretaries may require.
    (d) Extension._The authority of a State to combine funds under this 
section shall not exceed 5 years, except that the Secretaries may 
extend such period if the Secretaries determine that an extension of 
such authority would further the purposes of this Act.
    (e) Limitation._Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
relieve a State of an obligation to conduct the activities required 
under section 201(b) of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education and 
Applied Technology Education Act.

                      TITLE VI_GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 601. REQUIREMENTS.

    The following requirements shall apply to programs under this Act:
        (1) Prohibition on displacement._No student participating in 
    such a program shall displace any currently employed worker 
    (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the hours 
    of nonovertime work, wages, or employment benefits).
        (2) Prohibition on impairment of contracts._No such program 
    shall impair existing contracts for services or collective 
    bargaining agreements, and no such program that would be 
    inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining agreement 
    shall be undertaken without the written concurrence of the labor 
    organization and employer concerned.
        (3) Prohibition on replacement._No student participating in 
    such a program shall be employed or fill a job_
            (A) when any other individual is on temporary layoff, with 
        the clear possibility of recall, from the same or any 
        substantially equivalent job with the participating employer; 
        or
            (B) when the employer has terminated the employment of any 
        regular employee or otherwise reduced the workforce of the 
        employer with the intention of filling the vacancy so created 
        with the student.
        (4) Workplaces._Students participating in such programs shall 
    be provided with adequate and safe equipment and safe and healthful 
    workplaces in conformity with all health and safety requirements of 
    Federal, State, and local law.
        (5) Effect on other laws._Nothing in this Act shall be 
    construed to modify or affect any Federal or State law prohibiting 
    discrimination on the basis of race, religion, color, ethnicity, 
    national origin, gender, age, or disability, or to modify or affect 
    any right to enforcement of this Act that may exist under other 
    Federal laws, except as expressly provided by this Act.
        (6) Prohibition concerning wages._Funds appropriated under 
    authority of this Act shall not be expended for wages of students 
    or workplace mentors participating in such programs.
        (7) Other requirements._The Secretaries shall establish such 
    other requirements as the Secretaries may determine to be 
    appropriate, in order to ensure that participants in programs under 
    this Act are afforded adequate supervision by skilled adult 
    workers, or to otherwise further the purposes of this Act.

SEC. 602. SANCTIONS.

    (a) Termination or Suspension of Assistance._
        (1) In general._The Secretaries may terminate or suspend any 
    financial assistance under this Act, in whole or in part, or not 
    make payments under a grant awarded under this Act, if the 
    Secretaries determine that a recipient has failed to meet any 
    requirements of this Act, including_
            (A) reporting requirements under section 402(c);
            (B) regulations under this Act; or
            (C) requirements of an approved State plan.
        (2) Notice and opportunity for hearing._If the Secretaries 
    terminate or suspend such financial assistance, or do not make such 
    payments under paragraph (1), with respect to a recipient, then the 
    Secretaries shall provide_
            (A) prompt notice to such recipient; and
            (B) the opportunity for a hearing to such recipient not 
        later than 30 days after the date on which such notice is 
        provided.
    (b) Nondelegation._The Secretaries shall not delegate any of the 
functions or authority specified in this section, other than to an 
officer whose appointment is required to be made by and with the advice 
and consent of the Senate.

SEC. 603. STATE AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to negate or supersede the 
legal authority, under State law or other applicable law, of any State 
agency, State entity, or State public official over programs that are 
under the jurisdiction of the agency, entity, or official. Nothing in 
this Act shall be construed to interfere with the authority of such 
agency, entity, or official to enter into a contract under any 
provision of law.
    SEC. 604. PROHIBITION ON FEDERAL MANDATES, DIRECTION, AND CONTROL.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an officer or 
employee of the Federal Government to mandate, direct, or control a 
State's, local educational agency's, or school's curriculum, program of 
instruction, or allocation of State or local resources or mandate a 
State or any subdivision thereof to spend any funds or incur any costs 
not paid for under this Act.

SEC. 605. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General._There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretaries to carry out this Act $300,000,000 for fiscal year 1995 and 
such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1996 through 
1999.
    (b) Reservations._From amounts appropriated under subsection (a) 
for any fiscal year, the Secretaries_
        (1) shall reserve not more than \1/2\ of 1 percent of such 
    amounts for such fiscal year to provide grants under sections 202 
    and 212 to the jurisdictions described in section 202(b);
        (2) shall reserve not more than \1/2\ of 1 percent of such 
    amounts for such fiscal year to provide grants under subtitle C of 
    title II to establish and carry out School-to-Work Opportunities 
    programs for Indian youths that involve Bureau funded schools (as 
    defined in section 1139(3) of the Education Amendments of 1978 (25 
    U.S.C. 2019(3)));
        (3) shall reserve 10 percent of such amounts for such fiscal 
    year to provide grants under section 302(b) to local partnerships 
    located in high poverty areas, which reserved funds may be used in 
    conjunction with funds available under the Youth Fair Chance 
    Program set forth in part H of title IV of the Job Training 
    Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1782 et seq.); and
        (4)(A) shall reserve 2.5 percent of such amounts for such 
    fiscal year to carry out section 404; and
        (B) shall reserve not more than an additional 5 percent of such 
    amounts for such fiscal year to carry out other activities under 
    title IV, and activities under sections 214(d) and 303(d).
    (c) Availability of Funds._Funds appropriated for any fiscal year 
for programs authorized under this Act shall remain available until 
expended.

                        TITLE VII_OTHER PROGRAMS
      Subtitle A_Reauthorization of Job Training for the Homeless 
Demonstration Program Under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance 
                                  Act

SEC. 701. REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General._Section 739(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11449(a)) is amended by striking ``the 
following amounts:'' and all that follows and inserting ``such sums as 
may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 and 1995.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment._Section 741 of the Stewart B. McKinney 
Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11450) is amended by striking 
``1993'' and inserting ``1995''.

                     Subtitle B_Tech-Prep Programs

SEC. 711. TECH-PREP EDUCATION.

    (a) Contents of Program._Section 344(b)(2) of the Tech-Prep 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2394b(b)(2)) is amended by inserting ``or 4 
years'' before ``of secondary school''.
    (b) Special Consideration; Priority._Section 345(d)(2) of the Tech-
Prep Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2394c(d)(2)) is amended to read as 
follows:
        ``(2) are developed in consultation with business, industry, 
    labor unions, and institutions of higher education that award 
    baccalaureate degrees; and''.

                Subtitle C_Alaska Native Art and Culture

SEC. 721. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Alaska Native Culture and Arts 
Development Act''.

SEC. 722. ALASKA NATIVE ART AND CULTURE.

    Part B of title XV of the Higher Education Amendments of 1986 (20 
U.S.C. 4441 et seq.) is amended_
        (1) in the part heading, to read as follows:

            ``Part B_Native Hawaiians and Alaska Natives'';

    and
        (2) in section 1521, to read as follows:
``SEC. 1521. PROGRAM FOR NATIVE HAWAIIAN AND ALASKA NATIVE CULTURE AND 
ARTS DEVELOPMENT.
    ``(a) In General._The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to 
make grants for the purpose of supporting programs for Native Hawaiian 
or Alaska Native culture and arts development to any private, nonprofit 
organization or institution which_
        ``(1) primarily serves and represents Native Hawaiians or 
    Alaska Natives, and
        ``(2) has been recognized by the Governor of the State of 
    Hawaii or the Governor of the State of Alaska, as appropriate, for 
    the purpose of making such organization or institution eligible to 
    receive such grants.
    ``(b) Purpose of Grants._Grants made under subsection (a) shall, to 
the extent deemed possible by the Secretary and the recipient of the 
grant, be used_
        ``(1) to provide scholarly study of, and instruction in, Native 
    Hawaiian or Alaska Native art and culture,
        ``(2) to establish programs which culminate in the awarding of 
    degrees in the various fields of Native Hawaiian or Alaska Native 
    art and culture, or
        ``(3) to establish centers and programs with respect to Native 
    Hawaiian or Alaska Native art and culture that are similar in 
    purpose to the centers and programs described in subsections (b) 
    and (c) of section 1510.
    ``(c) Management of Grants._
        ``(1) Any organization or institution which is the recipient of 
    a grant made under subsection (a) shall establish a governing board 
    to manage and control the program with respect to which such grant 
    is made.
        ``(2) For any grants made with respect to Native Hawaiian art 
    and culture, the members of the governing board which is required 
    to be established under paragraph (1) shall_
            ``(A) be Native Hawaiians or individuals widely recognized 
        in the field of Native Hawaiian art and culture,
            ``(B) include a representative of the Office of Hawaiian 
        Affairs of the State of Hawaii,
            ``(C) include the president of the University of Hawaii,
            ``(D) include the president of the Bishop Museum, and
            ``(E) serve for a fixed term of office.
        ``(3) For any grants made with respect to Alaska Native art and 
    culture, the members of the governing board which is required to be 
    established under paragraph (1) shall_
            ``(A) include Alaska Natives and individuals widely 
        recognized in the field of Alaska Native art and culture,
            ``(B) represent the Eskimo, Indian and Aleut cultures of 
        Alaska, and
            ``(C) serve for a fixed term.''.

                        Subtitle D_Job Training

    SEC. 731. AMENDMENT TO JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP ACT TO PROVIDE 
      ALLOWANCES FOR CHILD CARE COSTS TO CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS 
      PARTICIPATING IN THE JOB CORPS.
    Section 429 of the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1699) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) In addition to child care assistance provided under section 
428(e), the Secretary shall provide enrollees who otherwise could not 
participate in the Job Corps with allowances to pay for child care 
costs, such as food, clothing, and health care for the child. 
Allowances under this subsection may only be provided during the first 
2 months of an enrollee's participation in the program and shall be in 
an amount that does not exceed the maximum amount that may be provided 
by the State pursuant to section 402(g)(1)(C) of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 602(g)(1)(C)).''.

                    TITLE VIII_TECHNICAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 801. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 802. SUNSET.

    The authority provided by this Act shall terminate on October 1, 
2001.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.