[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4950 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4950

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To extend the authorities of the Overseas Private Investment 
Corporation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Jobs Through Trade Expansion Act of 
1994''.

            TITLE I--OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION

SEC. 101. RAISING CEILING ON INSURANCE.

    Section 235(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2195(a)(1)) is amended by striking ``$9,000,000,000'' and inserting 
``$13,500,000,000''.

SEC. 102. RAISING CEILING ON FINANCING.

    Section 235(a)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2195(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Financing.--(A) The maximum contingent liability 
    outstanding at any one time pursuant to financing issued under 
    subsections (b) and (c) of section 234 shall not exceed in the 
    aggregate $9,500,000,000.
        ``(B) Subject to spending authority provided in appropriations 
    Acts pursuant to section 504(b) of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 
    1990, the Corporation is authorized to transfer such sums as are 
    necessary from its noncredit activities to pay for the subsidy cost 
    of the investment guaranties and direct loan programs under 
    subsections (b) and (c) of section 234.''.

SEC. 103. EXTENDING ISSUING AUTHORITY.

    Section 235(a)(3) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2195(a)(3)) is amended by striking ``1994'' and inserting ``1996''.

SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    Section 235 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2195) 
is amended by striking subsection (g).

SEC. 105. EXEMPTIONS FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES.

    Paragraph (2) of the second undesignated paragraph of section 231 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2191) is amended by 
inserting after ``Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2702)'' the following: ``, 
Ireland, and Northern Ireland''.

                 TITLE II--TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY

SEC. 201. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.

    Section 661(f)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2421(f)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``There are authorized'' and inserting ``(A) 
    There are authorized'';
        (2) by striking ``$55,000,000'' and all that follows and 
    inserting ``$77,000,000 for fiscal year 1995 and such sums as are 
    necessary for fiscal year 1996.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) Amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
    appropriations under subparagraph (A) are authorized to remain 
    available until expended.''.

  TITLE III--EXPORT PROMOTION PROGRAMS WITHIN THE INTERNATIONAL TRADE 
                             ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 301. EXPORT PROMOTION AUTHORIZATION.

    Section 202 of the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985 (15 
U.S.C. 4052) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Commerce to carry out export promotion programs such sums as are 
necessary for fiscal years 1995 and 1996.''.

       TITLE IV--PROMOTION OF UNITED STATES ENVIRONMENTAL EXPORTS

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Environmental Export Promotion Act 
of 1994''.

SEC. 402. PROMOTION OF ENVIRONMENTAL EXPORTS.

    (a) Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee.--Section 
2313 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4728) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d);
        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (e); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
    ``(c) Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee.--
        ``(1) Establishment and purpose.--The Secretary, in carrying 
    out the duties of the chairperson of the TPCC, shall establish the 
    Environmental Technologies Trade Advisory Committee (hereafter in 
    this section referred to as the `Committee'). The purpose of the 
    Committee shall be to provide advice and guidance to the Working 
    Group in the development and administration of programs to expand 
    United States exports of environmental technologies, goods, and 
    services and products that comply with United States environmental, 
    safety, and related requirements.
        ``(2) Membership.--The members of the Committee shall be drawn 
    from representatives of--
            ``(A) environmental businesses, including small businesses;
            ``(B) trade associations in the environmental sector;
            ``(C) private sector organizations involved in the 
        promotion of environmental exports, including products that 
        comply with United States environmental, safety, and related 
        requirements;
            ``(D) States (as defined in section 2301(i)(5)) and 
        associations representing the States; and
            ``(E) other appropriate interested members of the public, 
        including labor representatives.
    The Secretary shall appoint as members of the Committee at least 1 
    individual under each of subparagraphs (A) through (E).
    ``(d) Export Plans for Priority Countries.--
        ``(1) Priority country identification.--The Working Group, in 
    consultation with the Committee, shall annually assess which 
    foreign countries have markets with the greatest potential for the 
    export of United States environmental technologies, goods, and 
    services. Of these countries the Working Group shall select as 
    priority countries 5 with the greatest potential for the 
    application of United States Government export promotion resources 
    related to environmental exports.
        ``(2) Export plans.--The Working Group, in consultation with 
    the Committee, shall annually create a plan for each priority 
    country selected under paragraph (1), setting forth in detail ways 
    to increase United States environmental exports to such country. 
    Each such plan shall--
            ``(A) identify the primary public and private sector 
        opportunities for United States exporters of environmental 
        technologies, goods, and services in the priority country;
            ``(B) analyze the financing and other requirements for 
        major projects in the priority country which will use 
        environmental technologies, goods, and services, and analyze 
        whether such projects are dependent upon financial assistance 
        from foreign countries or multilateral institutions; and
            ``(C) list specific actions to be taken by the member 
        agencies of the Working Group to increase United States exports 
        to the priority country.''.
    (b) Additional Mechanisms To Promote Environmental Exports.--
Section 2313 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Environmental Technologies Specialists in the United States 
and Foreign Commercial Service.--
        ``(1) Assignment of environmental technologies specialists.--
    The Secretary shall assign a specialist in environmental 
    technologies to the office of the United States and Foreign 
    Commercial Service in each of the 5 priority countries selected 
    under subsection (d)(1), and the Secretary is authorized to assign 
    such a specialist to the office of the United States and Foreign 
    Commercial Service in any country that is a promising market for 
    United States exports of environmental technologies, goods, and 
    services. Such specialist may be an employee of the Department, an 
    employee of any relevant United States Government department or 
    agency assigned on a temporary or limited term basis to the 
    Commerce Department, or a representative of the private sector 
    assigned to the Department of Commerce.
        ``(2) Duties of environmental technologies specialists.--Each 
    specialist assigned under paragraph (1) shall provide export 
    promotion assistance to United States environmental businesses, 
    including, but not limited to--
            ``(A) identifying factors in the country to which the 
        specialist is assigned that affect the United States share of 
        the domestic market for environmental technologies, goods, and 
        services, including market barriers, standards-setting 
        activities, and financing issues;
            ``(B) providing assessments of assistance by foreign 
        governments that is provided to producers of environmental 
        technologies, goods, and services in such countries in order to 
        enhance exports to the country to which the specialist is 
        assigned, the effectiveness of such assistance on the 
        competitiveness of United States products, and whether 
        comparable United States assistance exists;
            ``(C) training Foreign Commercial Service Officers in the 
        country to which the specialist is assigned, other countries in 
        the region, and United States and Foreign Commercial Service 
        offices in the United States, in environmental technologies and 
        the international environmental market;
            ``(D) providing assistance in identifying potential 
        customers and market opportunities in the country to which the 
        specialist is assigned;
            ``(E) providing assistance in obtaining necessary business 
        services in the country to which the specialist is assigned;
            ``(F) providing information on environmental standards and 
        regulations in the country to which the specialist is assigned;
            ``(G) providing information on all United States Government 
        programs that could assist the promotion, financing, and sale 
        of United States environmental technologies, goods, and 
        services in the country to which the specialist is assigned; 
        and
            ``(H) promoting the equal treatment of United States 
        environmental, safety, and related requirements, with those of 
        other exporting countries, in order to promote exports of 
        United States-made products.
    ``(g) Environmental Training in One-Stop Shops.--In addition to the 
training provided under subsection (f)(2)(C), the Secretary shall 
establish a mechanism to train--
        ``(1) Commercial Service Officers assigned to the one-stop 
    shops provided for in section 2301(b)(8), and
        ``(2) Commercial Service Officers assigned to district offices 
    in districts having large numbers of environmental businesses,
in environmental technologies and in the international environmental 
marketplace, and ensure that such officers receive appropriate training 
under such mechanism. Such training may be provided by officers or 
employees of the Department of Commerce, and other United States 
Government departments and agencies, with appropriate expertise in 
environmental technologies and the international environmental 
workplace, and by appropriate representatives of the private sector.
    ``(h) International Regional Environmental Initiatives.--
        ``(1) Establishment of initiatives.--The TPCC may establish one 
    or more international regional environmental initiatives the 
    purpose of which shall be to coordinate the activities of Federal 
    departments and agencies in order to build environmental 
    partnerships between the United States and the geographic region 
    outside the United States for which such initiative is established. 
    Such partnerships shall enhance environmental protection and 
    promote sustainable development by using in the region technical 
    expertise and financial resources of United States departments and 
    agencies that provide foreign assistance and by expanding United 
    States exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services 
    to that region.
        ``(2) Activities.--In carrying out each international regional 
    environmental initiative, the TPCC shall--
            ``(A) support, through the provision of foreign assistance, 
        the development of sound environmental policies and practices 
        in countries in the geographic region for which the initiative 
        is established, including the development of environmentally 
        sound regulatory regimes and enforcement mechanisms;
            ``(B) identify and disseminate to United States 
        environmental businesses information regarding specific 
        environmental business opportunities in that geographic region;
            ``(C) coordinate existing Federal efforts to promote 
        environmental exports to that geographic region, and ensure 
        that such efforts are fully coordinated with environmental 
        export promotion efforts undertaken by the States and the 
        private sector;
            ``(D) increase assistance provided by the Federal 
        Government to promote exports from the United States of 
        environmental technologies, goods, and services to that 
        geographic region, such as trade missions, reverse trade 
        missions, trade fairs, and programs in the United States to 
        train foreign nationals in United States environmental 
        technologies; and
            ``(E) increase high-level advocacy by United States 
        Government officials (including the United States ambassadors 
        to the countries in that geographic region) for United States 
        environmental businesses seeking market opportunities in that 
        geographic region.
    ``(i) Environmental Technologies Project Advocacy Calendar and 
Information Dissemination Program.--The Working Group shall--
        ``(1) maintain a calendar, updated at the end of each calendar 
    quarter, of significant opportunities for United States 
    environmental businesses in foreign markets and trade promotion 
    events, which shall--
            ``(A) be made available to the public;
            ``(B) identify the 50 to 100 environmental infrastructure 
        and procurement projects in foreign markets that have the 
        greatest potential in the calendar quarter for United States 
        exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services; and
            ``(C) include trade promotion events, such as trade 
        missions and trade fairs, in the environmental sector; and
        ``(2) provide, through the National Trade Data Bank and other 
    information dissemination channels, information on opportunities 
    for environmental businesses in foreign markets and information on 
    Federal export promotion programs.
    ``(j) Environmental Technology Export Alliances.--Subject to the 
availability of appropriations for such purpose, the Secretary is 
authorized to use the Market Development Cooperator Program to support 
the creation on a regional basis of alliances of private sector 
entities, nonprofit organizations, and universities, that support the 
export of environmental technologies, goods, and services and promote 
the export of products complying with United States environmental, 
safety, and related requirements.
    ``(k) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`environmental business' means a business that produces environmental 
technologies, goods, or services.''.

       TITLE V--INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY

SEC. 501. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out part I of the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 and other relevant foreign assistance laws, the President, 
acting through the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, shall establish a program of training and 
other technical assistance to assist foreign countries in--
        (1) developing and strengthening laws and regulations to 
    protect intellectual property; and
        (2) developing the infrastructure necessary to implement and 
    enforce such laws and regulations.
    (b) Participation of Other Agencies.--The Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development--
        (1) shall utilize the expertise of the Patent and Trademark 
    Office and other agencies of the United States Government in 
    designing and implementing the program of assistance provided for 
    in this section;
        (2) shall coordinate assistance under this section with efforts 
    of other agencies of the United States Government to increase 
    international protection of intellectual property, including 
    implementation of international agreements containing high levels 
    of protection of intellectual property; and
        (3) shall consult with the heads of such other agencies in 
    determining which foreign countries will receive assistance under 
    this section.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.