[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 808 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.808

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  For the relief of James B. Stanley.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS.

    (a) Payment.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $400,577 to James B. 
Stanley.
    (b) Basis.--The payment required by subsection (a) shall be to 
compensate James B. Stanley for the physical, psychological, and 
economic injuries sustained by him as a result of the administration to 
him, without his knowledge, of lysergic acid diethylamide by United 
States Army personnel in 1958.

SEC. 2. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.

    The payment made pursuant to section 1(a) shall be in full 
satisfaction of all claims James B. Stanley may have against the United 
States for--
        (1) the injuries received by him as described in section 1; and
        (2) for any injuries received by him subsequent to his 
    discharge from the United States Army that are the result of the 
    injuries described in section 1.

SEC. 3. INELIGIBILITY FOR ADDITIONAL BENEFITS.

    James B. Stanley shall not be eligible for any compensation or 
benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of 
Defense for any injury received by him as described in section 1.

SEC. 4. LIMITATION OF ATTORNEYS' OR AGENTS' FEES.

    It shall be unlawful for an amount of more than 10 per centum of 
the amount paid pursuant to section 1 to be paid to or received by any 
attorney or agent of James B. Stanley for any service rendered in 
connection with the payment made by this Act. Any person who violates 
this section shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to a 
fine in the amount provided in title 18, United States Code.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.