[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 1876 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1876
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide authority for the President to enter into trade agreements 
to conclude the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations under 
the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, to extend 
tariff proclamation authority to carry out such agreements, and to apply 
congressional ``fast track'' procedures to a bill implementing such 
agreements.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION. 1. EXTENSION OF URUGUAY ROUND TRADE AGREEMENT NEGOTIATING AND 
PROCLAMATION AUTHORITY AND OF ``FAST TRACK'' PROCEDURES TO IMPLEMENTING 
LEGISLATION.
    Section 1102 of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 
(19 U.S.C. 2902) is amended by inserting at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Special Provisions Regarding Uruguay Round Trade 
Negotiations.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding the time limitations in 
    subsections (a) and (b), if the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade 
    negotiations under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs 
    and Trade has not resulted in trade agreements by May 31, 1993, the 
    President may, during the period after May 31, 1993, and before 
    April 16, 1994, enter into, under subsections (a) and (b), trade 
    agreements resulting from such negotiations.
        ``(2) Application of tariff proclamation authority.--No 
    proclamation under subsection (a) to carry out the provisions 
    regarding tariff barriers of a trade agreement that is entered into 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) may take effect before the effective date 
    of a bill that implements the provisions regarding nontariff 
    barriers of a trade agreement that is entered into under such 
    paragraph.
        ``(3) Application of implementing and `fast track' procedures.--
    Section 1103 applies to any trade agreement negotiated under 
    subsection (b) pursuant to paragraph (1), except that--
            ``(A) in applying subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 1103 to 
        any such agreement, the phrase `at least 120 calendar days 
        before the day on which he enters into the trade agreement (but 
        not later than December 15, 1993),' shall be substituted for the 
        phrase `at least 90 calendar days before the day on which he 
        enters into the trade agreement,'; and
            ``(B) no provision of subsection (b) of section 1103 other 
        than paragraph (1)(A) applies to any such agreement and in 
        applying such paragraph, `April 16, 1994;' shall be substituted 
        for `June 1, 1991;'.
        ``(4) Advisory committee reports.--The report required under 
    section 135(e)(1) of the Trade Act of 1974 regarding any trade 
    agreement provided for under paragraph (1) shall be provided to the 
    President, the Congress, and the United States Trade Representative 
    not later than 30 days after the date on which the President 
    notifies the Congress under section 1103(a)(1)(A) of his intention 
    to enter into the agreement (but before January 15, 1994).''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.