[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5200 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5200

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To resolve the 107th meridian boundary dispute between the Crow Indian 
Tribe and the United States.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Crow Boundary Settlement Act of 
1994''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) Under the treaty between the United States of America and 
    the Crow Tribe of Indians concluded May 7, 1868 (commonly known as 
    the ``Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868''; 15 Stat. 649), the eastern 
    boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation was established as the 
    107th meridian for approximately 90 miles from the Yellowstone 
    River to the boundary between Montana and Wyoming.
        (2) Under Executive orders issued in 1884 and 1900, the western 
    boundary of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation was established as 
    the 107th meridian. The 107th meridian was intended to be the 
    common boundary between the Crow Reservation and Northern Cheyenne 
    Reservation for approximately 25 miles.
        (3) From 1889 through 1891, a survey was conducted of the 
    eastern boundary of the Crow Reservation. The 1891 survey line 
    strayed to the west, and resulted in the exclusion from the Crow 
    Indian Reservation of a strip of land of approximately 36,164 
    acres. Approximately 12,964 acres of such strip of land were 
    included in the Northern Cheyenne Reservation. Deposits of low 
    sulphur coal underlie the land excluded from the Crow Indian 
    Reservation, including the land included in the Northern Cheyenne 
    Indian Reservation.
        (4)(A) The erroneous nature of the survey was not discovered 
    for several decades. Meanwhile, the areas along the 107th meridian 
    to the north and south of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation 
    were opened to settlement in the late nineteenth century and early 
    part of the twentieth century. Patents were issued to non-Indian 
    persons and to the State of Montana for most of the surface land 
    and a significant portion of the minerals in these areas between 
    the 107th meridian and the 1891 survey line.
        (B) The 12,964 acres included in the Northern Cheyenne 
    Reservation have been treated as part of the Northern Cheyenne 
    Reservation and occupied by the Northern Cheyenne Tribe and the 
    Northern Cheyenne allottees, and their successors in interest.
        (5) Legislation to resolve the 107th meridian boundary dispute 
    was introduced in Congress in the 1960's and 1970's, and again in 
    1992, but no such legislation was enacted into law.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to settle the 107th 
meridian boundary dispute created by the erroneous survey of the 
eastern boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation made by the Federal 
Government described in subsection (a)(3).

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
        (1) Crow tribe.--The term ``Crow Tribe'' means the Crow Tribe 
    of Indians, the duly recognized governing body of the Crow Indian 
    Reservation.
        (2) Disputed area.--The term ``disputed area'' means the 
    approximately 36,164 acres of land, including the minerals, located 
    between the 107th meridian on the east and the 1891 survey line on 
    the west from the Yellowstone River on the north to the boundary 
    between the State of Wyoming and the State of Montana on the south.
        (3) 1891 survey.--The term ``1891 survey'' means the survey of 
    the eastern boundary of the Crow Reservation conducted by the 
    United States Government from 1889 through 1891.
        (4) 1891 survey line.--The term ``1891 survey line'' means the 
    erroneous boundary line resulting from the survey of the 107th 
    meridian which was completed in 1891.
        (5) Northern cheyenne tribe.--The term ``Northern Cheyenne 
    Tribe'' means the Northern Cheyenne Tribe of Indians, with the 
    Northern Cheyenne Tribal Council as the duly recognized governing 
    body of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation.
        (6) 107th meridian boundary dispute.--The term ``107th meridian 
    boundary dispute'' means the dispute resulting from the disparity 
    between the location of the 107th meridian and the location of the 
    1891 survey line.
        (7) 107th meridian escrow fund.--The term ``107th meridian 
    escrow fund'' means the revenues that arise from, or are derived 
    from, parcel number 2, including all accrued interest on such 
    revenues, which are held by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in an 
    escrow account as of the date of enactment of this Act.
        (8) Parcel number 1.--The term ``parcel number 1'' means the 
    area, encompassing approximately 11,317 acres, bounded on the south 
    by the Montana-Wyoming border, on the east by the 107th meridian, 
    on the north by the extension to the west of the southern boundary 
    of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, and on the west by the 
    1891 survey line.
        (9) Parcel number 2.--The term ``parcel number 2'' means the 
    area, encompassing approximately 12,964 acres, bounded on the south 
    by the extension to the west of the southern boundary of the 
    Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, on the east by the 107th 
    meridian, on the north by the extension to the west of the northern 
    boundary of the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, and on the 
    west by the 1891 survey line.
        (10) Parcel number 3.--The term ``parcel number 3'' means the 
    area, encompassing approximately 2,469 acres, bounded on the south 
    by the extension to the west of the northern boundary of the 
    Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, on the east by the 107th 
    meridian, on the north by the northern boundary of the Crow Indian 
    Reservation, and on the west by the 1891 survey line.
        (11) Parcel number 4.--The term ``parcel number 4'' means the 
    area, encompassing approximately 9,415 acres, bounded on the south 
    by the northern boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation, on the 
    east by the 107th meridian, on the north by the midpoint of the 
    Yellowstone River, and on the west by the 1891 survey line.
        (12) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' means any land or 
    interest in land owned by the United States (without regard to the 
    means by which the United States acquired ownership of the land or 
    interest in land) and administered by the Secretary through the 
    Bureau of Land Management.
        (13) Royalties received and retained by the united states.--The 
    term ``royalties received and retained by the United States'' means 
    the royalties derived from minerals owned by the United States that 
    the United States retains after all payments from the royalties 
    have been made to the State of Montana or any unit of local 
    government of the State of Montana.
        (14) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (15) Settlement agreement.--The term ``Settlement Agreement'' 
    means the agreement between the Secretary, on behalf of the United 
    States and the Crow Tribe, that provides for the resolution of all 
    claims held by the Crow Tribe arising from the 107th meridian 
    boundary dispute.
        (16) Undisposed of coal.--The term ``undisposed of coal'' means 
    coal that has not been conveyed to private parties or to the State 
    of Montana by the United States.
        (17) Undisposed of surface lands.--The term ``undisposed of 
    surface lands'' means surface land that has not been conveyed to 
    private parties or to the State of Montana by the United States.
        (18) Undisposed of oil, gas, coal methane, or other minerals.--
    The term ``undisposed of oil, gas, coal methane, or other 
    minerals'' means oil, gas, coal methane, or other minerals 
    (excluding coal) that have not been conveyed to private parties or 
    to the State of Montana by the United States.

SEC. 4. SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT.

    (a) Execution of the Settlement Agreement.--Subject to the terms 
and conditions of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into the 
Settlement Agreement with the Crow Tribe.
    (b) Ratification of the Settlement Agreement.--Subject to the 
conditions set forth in section 9(a), the United States hereby 
approves, ratifies, and confirms the Settlement Agreement, to the 
extent that such Settlement Agreement does not conflict with this Act.
    (c) Modification of the Settlement Agreement.--The terms and 
conditions of the Settlement Agreement may be modified by mutual 
agreement of the Crow Tribe and the Secretary if such modification--
        (1) is not inconsistent with this Act; and
        (2) does not diminish or impair any right or benefit secured to 
    the Northern Cheyenne Tribe, the Northern Cheyenne allottees, or 
    their successors in interest by or pursuant to any provision of 
    this Act.
    (d) Enforcement of the Settlement Agreement.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Settlement Agreement shall be subject to the enforcement provisions 
    under chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
        (2) Additional enforcement.--If, with respect to the 
    enforcement of the Settlement Agreement, the remedies available 
    under the provisions referred to in paragraph (1) do not provide 
    adequate or complete relief, the Settlement Agreement shall be 
    subject to the enforcement provisions under section 1505 of title 
    28, United States Code.
SEC. 5. SETTLEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS AND EXTINGUISHMENT OF CLAIMS.
    (a) Property Within Parcel Number 1.--
        (1) In general.--With respect to the property within parcel 
    number 1, the following provisions shall apply:
            (A) The boundary of the Crow Indian Reservation shall be 
        the 107th meridian.
            (B) Title to the undisposed of coal of such parcel shall be 
        vested in the United States in trust for the sole use and 
        benefit of the Crow Tribe and shall be recognized as part of 
        the Crow Indian Reservation.
            (C) Title to the undisposed of surface lands of such parcel 
        shall be vested in the United States in trust for the sole use 
        and benefit of the Crow Tribe and shall be recognized as part 
        of the Crow Indian Reservation.
            (D) Title to the undisposed of oil, gas, coal methane, or 
        other minerals of such parcel shall be vested in the United 
        States in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Crow Tribe 
        and shall be recognized as part of the Crow Indian Reservation.
        (2) Prohibition.--Nothing in this Act or the Settlement 
    Agreement may alter, diminish, disturb, or cause to be divested any 
    right, title, or interest of any person or entity in any land, 
    coal, oil, gas, coal methane, or mineral within parcel number 1 
    that is based on the 1891 survey line, except for the specific 
    rights that are vested in the United States for the sole use and 
    benefit of the Crow Tribe pursuant to subparagraphs (B) through (D) 
    of paragraph (1).
        (3) Waivers and releases.--The following waivers and releases 
    shall be included in the Settlement Agreement:
            (A) A disclaimer and relinquishment by the Crow Tribe of 
        all right, title, claim, or interest in all the land and 
        minerals within parcel number 1, except for the rights, titles, 
        and interests recognized as beneficially owned by the Crow 
        Tribe and as part of the Crow Indian Reservation in 
        subparagraphs (B) through (D) of paragraph (1).
            (B) A release by the Crow Tribe of all persons and 
        entities, including the United States, from any liability 
        arising from, or related to, the 1891 survey and the subsequent 
        occupancy and use of parcel number 1.
    (b) Property Within Parcel Number 2.--
        (1) In general.--With respect to the property within parcel 
    number 2, the following provisions shall apply:
            (A) The boundary between the Crow and Northern Cheyenne 
        Indian Reservations shall be the 1891 survey line.
            (B) All surface lands and minerals of such parcel shall 
        constitute part of the Northern Cheyenne Reservation.
            (C) All surface lands, including all rights appurtenant to 
        the surface lands, of such parcel shall be vested in the United 
        States in trust for the sole use and benefit of the Northern 
        Cheyenne Tribe, except that surface lands that have been 
        allotted shall be recognized as held in trust for, or owned in 
        fee by (as the case may be), the Northern Cheyenne allottees or 
        their successors in interest.
            (D) The oil, gas, coal, coal methane, and other minerals, 
        including all rights appurtenant to such minerals, of such 
        parcel shall be vested in the United States in trust for the 
        sole use and benefit of the Northern Cheyenne Tribe.
        (2) Waivers and releases.--The following waivers and releases 
    shall be included in the Settlement Agreement:
            (A) A disclaimer and relinquishment by the Crow Tribe of 
        all right, jurisdiction, title, claim, or interest in the lands 
        and minerals within parcel number 2, including all rights 
        appurtenant to such land and minerals.
            (B) A release by the Crow Tribe of all persons and 
        entities, including the United States, the Northern Cheyenne 
        Tribe, the Northern Cheyenne allottees and their successors in 
        interest, from any liability arising from, or related to, the 
        1891 survey and the subsequent occupancy and use of parcel 
        number 2.
        (3) Enforcement.--The provisions of subsection (b) may be 
    enforced, in law or in equity, by the Northern Cheyenne Tribe, 
    Northern Cheyenne allottees, and their successors in interest, in 
    accordance with their respective interests.
    (c) Property Within Parcel Number 3 and ParcelP Number 4.--
        (1) In general.--With respect to the property within parcel 
    number 3 and parcel number 4, the boundary of the Crow Indian 
    Reservation shall be the 1891 survey line.
        (2) Prohibition.--Nothing in this Act or the Settlement 
    Agreement may alter, diminish, disturb, or cause to be divested any 
    right, title, or interest of any person or entity in any land, 
    coal, or mineral within parcel number 3 or parcel number 4 that is 
    based on the 1891 survey line.
        (3) Waivers and releases.--The following waivers and releases 
    shall be included in the Settlement Agreement:
            (A) A disclaimer and relinquishment by the Crow Tribe of 
        all right, jurisdiction, title, claim, or interest in the lands 
        and minerals situated within parcel number 3 and parcel number 
        4.
            (B) A release by the Crow Tribe of all persons and 
        entities, including the United States, from any liability 
        arising from, or related to, the 1891 survey and the subsequent 
        occupancy and use of parcel number 3 and parcel number 4.
    (d) Exchange of Public Lands.--With respect to the land exchanges 
with the State of Montana and private landowners made under this Act 
the following provisions shall apply:
        (1) In general.--(A) The Secretary shall negotiate with the 
    State of Montana for the purpose of exchanging public lands within 
    the State of Montana for State trust lands within the Crow 
    Reservation having a total value substantially equal to the value 
    of the surface estate of the approximately 46,625 acres of State 
    trust lands obtained by the State of Montana pursuant to the Act of 
    February 22, 1889 (commonly known as the ``Montana Enabling Act''; 
    25 Stat. 676, chapter 180), and the Act entitled ``An Act to 
    provide for the allotment of lands of the Crow Tribe for the 
    distribution of tribal funds and for other purposes'' approved June 
    4, 1920 (commonly known as the ``Crow Allotment Act''; 41 Stat. 
    751, chapter 224) within the Crow Indian Reservation and the 
    disputed area.
        (B) The exchange described in subparagraph (A) shall be in 
    accordance with the exchange procedures set forth in section 206 of 
    the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
    1716).
        (C) In determining the fair market value of the lands described 
    in subparagraph (A), the parties to the exchange shall give due 
    consideration to the value of improvements on the lands.
        (D) The Secretary shall ensure that lands exchanged pursuant to 
    this paragraph as part of the settlement of the 107th Meridian 
    boundary dispute made pursuant to this Act shall be selected in 
    such manner that the financial impact on local governments, if any, 
    will be minimized.
        (E) The Secretary shall provide such financial or other 
    assistance to the State of Montana and to the Crow Tribe as may be 
    necessary to obtain the appraisals, and to satisfy administrative 
    requirements, necessary to accomplish the exchanges made pursuant 
    to subparagraph (A).
        (F) Upon approving an exchange made pursuant to this paragraph, 
    the Secretary shall--
            (i) receive title to the State trust lands involved in the 
        exchange on behalf of the United States; and
            (ii) transfer title to the public lands disposed of 
        pursuant to the exchanges with the State of Montana by such 
        means of conveyance as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (G) Title to the State trust lands acquired pursuant to the 
    exchanges made with the State of Montana pursuant to this paragraph 
    shall be vested in the United States in trust for the sole use and 
    benefit of the Crow Tribe and shall be recognized as part of the 
    Crow Indian Reservation.
        (2) Requirement for exchanges.--(A) In carrying out the 
    exchanges with the State of Montana pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall, during a period of at least 5 years beginning on 
    the date on which the Settlement Agreement becomes effective, give 
    first priority to the exchange of public lands within the State of 
    Montana for State trust lands owned by the State of Montana as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (B) Subject to subparagraph (C), if, for any reason, after the 
    expiration of the period specified in subparagraph (A), the 
    exchanges of the State trust lands identified in paragraph (1) have 
    not provided the Crow Tribe with a total of 46,625 acres of surface 
    lands within the boundaries of the existing Crow Indian Reservation 
    (including parcel number 1), the Secretary shall, at the request 
    of, and in cooperation with, the Crow Tribe, develop and implement 
    a program to provide the Crow Tribe with additional land within the 
    Crow Indian Reservation (including parcel number 1) through land 
    exchanges with private landowners.
        (C) The total value of--
            (i) the value of the lands exchanged and acquired for the 
        Crow Tribe pursuant to paragraph (1), and
            (ii) the value of the lands exchanged and acquired for the 
        Crow Tribe pursuant to this paragraph,
    shall not exceed the value of the surface estate of the 46,625 
    acres of land identified in paragraph (1)(A).
        (D) In carrying out a program developed pursuant to this 
    paragraph, the Secretary may exchange public lands within the State 
    of Montana for private lands of substantially equal value within 
    the boundaries of the existing Crow Indian Reservation in 
    accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy Management 
    Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
        (E) In determining the fair market value of the lands described 
    in subparagraph (D), the parties to an exchange made pursuant to 
    subparagraph (D) shall give due consideration to the value of 
    improvements on the lands.
        (F) If the Secretary obtains private lands pursuant to 
    subparagraph (D), the Secretary shall transfer title to such lands 
    to the Crow Tribe.
        (G) Title to any private or public lands transferred to the 
    Crow Tribe pursuant to this paragraph shall--
            (i) be vested in the United States in trust for the sole 
        use and benefit of the Crow Tribe; and
            (ii) be recognized as part of the Crow Indian Reservation, 
        if such lands are located within the boundaries of the Crow 
        Indian Reservation.
        (H) The Crow Tribe shall assist in obtaining prospective 
    willing parties to exchange private lands within the Crow Indian 
    Reservation for public lands within the State of Montana pursuant 
    to this paragraph.
    (e) Crow Tribal Trust Fund.--The Settlement Agreement shall include 
provisions governing the distribution of interest income to the Crow 
Tribe from the Crow Tribal Trust Fund pursuant to the terms and 
conditions described in section 6.
SEC. 6. ESTABLISHMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF CROW TRIBAL TRUST FUND.
    (a) Establishment of Crow Tribal Trust Fund.--
        (1) In general.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
    United States a trust fund to be known as the ``Crow Tribal Trust 
    Fund''.
        (2) Availability of amounts in the crow tribal trust fund.--
    Amounts in the Crow Tribal Trust Fund shall be available, without 
    fiscal year limitation, to the Secretary for distribution to the 
    Crow Tribe in accordance with subsection (d).
    (b) Contributions to Crow Tribal Trust Fund.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and the requirements 
    of section 10--
            (A) on or before November 30, 1994, the Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall deposit into the Crow Tribal Trust Fund an 
        amount equal to the amounts of royalties received and retained 
        by the United States during fiscal year 1994 from the East 
        Decker, West Decker, and Spring Creek coal mines; and
            (B) commencing with fiscal year 1995 and for such period 
        thereafter as may be necessary, the Secretary and the Secretary 
        of the Treasury shall make necessary and proper arrangements 
        for the monthly payment, transfer, or deposit (or any 
        combination thereof) into the Crow Tribal Trust Fund of the 
        royalties received and retained by the United States for the 
        immediately preceding month from the East Decker, West Decker, 
        and Spring Creek coal mines in the State of Montana for the 
        life of such mines, including any extensions of the existing 
        leases for such mines and any expansions of such mines to 
        nearby and adjacent federally owned coal deposits, as specified 
        in the Settlement Agreement.
        (2) Amount of royalties.--The total amount of royalties 
    described in paragraph (1) that are paid, transferred, or deposited 
    into the Crow Tribal Trust Fund shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 
    $85,000,000, excluding--
            (A) any interest earned on moneys in the Crow Tribal Trust 
        Fund; and
            (B) the funds transferred to the Suspension Accounts 
        pursuant to section 10.
        (3) Payments of royalties received and retained by the united 
    states.--Subject to paragraph (2) and the requirements of section 
    10, the royalties received and retained by the United States from 
    the East Decker, West Decker, and Spring Creek coal mines shall be 
    paid, transferred or deposited into the Crow Tribal Trust Fund not 
    later than 30 days after the date on which the royalties are due 
    and paid.
        (4) Additional payments.--The Federal Government shall make 
    payments, in addition to the payments referred to in paragraph (3), 
    from the royalties received and retained by the United States from 
    other coal mines within the State of Montana into the Crow Tribal 
    Trust Fund in an amount equal to any lost interest income (as 
    determined by the Secretary), if any portion of the sums described 
    in paragraph (3) are not paid, transferred or deposited into the 
    Crow Tribal Trust Fund within the 30-day period prescribed in 
    paragraph (3).
    (c) Investment.--At the request of the Secretary, the Secretary of 
the Treasury shall invest all sums deposited into, accruing to, and 
remaining in, the Crow Tribal Trust Fund in accordance with the Act of 
February 12, 1929 (45 Stat. 1164, chapter 178; 25 U.S.C. 161a).
    (d) Distribution of Interest.--
        (1) In general.--Only the interest received on funds in the 
    Crow Tribal Trust Fund shall be available for distribution by the 
    Secretary to the Crow Tribe for use for education, land 
    acquisition, economic development, youth and elderly programs or 
    other tribal purposes in accordance with plans and budgets 
    developed and approved by the Crow Tribe and approved by the 
    Secretary.
        (2) Requirements for distribution of interest.--Commencing with 
    fiscal year 1996 and for each fiscal year thereafter, without 
    fiscal year limitation, the interest received on monies in the Crow 
    Tribal Trust Fund shall be available for distribution under this 
    subsection only if--
            (A) the United States and the Crow Tribe enter into the 
        Settlement Agreement; and
            (B) the requirements of section 9 relating to the approval 
        and execution of the Settlement Agreement are satisfied.
        (3) Prohibition.--No portion of the Crow Tribal Trust Fund or 
    the interest earned on the Crow Tribal Trust Fund may be 
    distributed to members of the Crow Tribe on a per capita basis.
    (e) Use of Interest for Economic Development.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Crow Tribe may, subject to approval by the 
Secretary, assign the right of the Crow Tribe to the interest earned on 
monies in the Crow Tribal Trust Fund to a third party in connection 
with loans made for economic development projects on or near the Crow 
Indian Reservation.
    (f) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
portion of the principal of the Crow Tribal Trust Fund shall be 
available for withdrawal or disbursement or used for any purpose other 
than the purposes specified in this section and section 10.

SEC. 7. ELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER FEDERAL SERVICES.

    No payments made or benefits conferred pursuant to this Act shall 
result in the reduction or denial of any Federal services or programs 
to any tribe or to any member of a tribe to which the tribe or member 
of the tribe is entitled or eligible because of the status of the tribe 
as a federally recognized Indian tribe or the status of a member of 
such tribe as a member.

SEC. 8. EXCHANGES OF LAND OR MINERALS.

    (a) In General.--(1) Subject to approval by the Secretary, the Crow 
Tribe may exchange any land or minerals to which its title is 
recognized in or obtained pursuant to this Act for other land or 
minerals of substantially equivalent value within the Crow Indian 
Reservation (including parcel number 1).
    (2) Lands or minerals received by the Crow Tribe in any exchange 
made pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be--
        (A) vested in the United States in trust for the sole use and 
    benefit of the Crow Tribe; and
        (B) recognized as part of the Crow Indian Reservation.
    (b) Ownership by Non-Indians.--Any land or minerals received by a 
person who is not an Indian in an exchange referred to in subsection 
(a) shall be owned in fee.

SEC. 9. APPLICABILITY.

    (a) In General.--The Act shall take effect upon the occurrence of 
the following conditions:
        (1) The Settlement Agreement is approved and executed by the 
    Secretary.
        (2) The Settlement Agreement is approved and executed by the 
    Crow Tribe.
        (3) The Settlement Agreement and the releases and waivers 
    required by section 5 are approved and duly executed by the Crow 
    Tribe in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth 
    in the constitution of the Crow Tribe.
        (4) The Settlement Agreement becomes effective in accordance 
    with the terms and conditions specified in the Settlement 
    Agreement.
    (b) Approval of Releases and Waivers.--The United States hereby 
approves and confirms the releases and waivers required by section 5.

SEC. 10. ESCROW FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall make distributions from the 107th 
meridian escrow fund as follows:
        (1) One-half of the fund shall be distributed to the Crow 
    Tribe.
        (2) One-half of the fund shall be distributed to the Northern 
    Cheyenne Tribe.
        (3) The receipt and acceptance by a tribe of funds distributed 
    under this section shall be deemed to be--
            (A) a disclaimer, relinquishment and waiver by such tribe 
        of all right, claim or interest in the 107th meridian escrow 
        fund; and
            (B) a release by such tribe of all persons and entities, 
        including the United States, from any liability arising from, 
        or related to, the establishment and administration of the 
        107th meridian escrow fund.
    (b) Establishment of Suspension Accounts.--As soon as practicable 
after the Settlement Agreement is executed and approved pursuant to 
this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall establish in the Treasury 
of the United States two interest bearing accounts to be known 
respectively as the ``Crow Tribal Suspension Account'' and the 
``Northern Cheyenne Tribal Suspension Account'' (collectively referred 
to in this subsection as the ``Suspension Accounts''), consisting of--
        (1) such amounts as are transferred to the Suspension Accounts 
    under subsection (c); and
        (2) any interest earned on investments of amounts in the 
    Suspension Accounts under subsection (e).
    (c) Contributions to the Suspension Accounts.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning with fiscal year 1995, and ending on 
    the date on which the total amount deposited pursuant to this 
    subsection into the Suspension Accounts is equal to $200,000 for 
    each such account (as specified in subsection (d)), the Secretary 
    and the Secretary of the Treasury shall make necessary and proper 
    arrangements for the monthly payment, transfer, or deposit (or any 
    combination thereof) into each of the Suspension Accounts of an 
    amount equal to one-half of the royalties received and retained by 
    the United States for the immediately preceding month, as 
    determined in accordance with section 6(b)(1), by the date 
    specified under section 6(b)(3).
        (2) Subsequent deposits.--At such time as the amount deposited 
    pursuant to this subsection into the Suspension Accounts is equal 
    to $200,000 for each such account (as specified in subsection (d)), 
    in accordance with section 6(b)(1), the Secretary and the Secretary 
    of the Treasury shall thereafter deposit any remaining amounts 
    determined under section 6(b)(1) in the Crow Tribal Trust Fund 
    established under section 6(a).
    (d) Limitation.--The Secretary and the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall not transfer more than a total amount equal to $200,000 to each 
of the Suspension Accounts from the amounts determined under section 
6(b)(1).
    (e) Investment.--All sums deposited in, accruing to and remaining 
in the Suspension Accounts shall be invested by the Secretary and the 
Secretary of the Treasury in interest bearing deposits and securities 
in accordance with the Act of June 24, 1938 (52 Stat. 1037, chapter 
648; 25 U.S.C. 162a).
    (f) Withdrawals and Termination.--
        (1) In general.--(A) Beginning on the date that is 5 years 
    after the date of enactment of this Act, the Crow Tribe and the 
    Northern Cheyenne Tribe may each submit a duly authorized request 
    to the Secretary for the withdrawal of all of the funds from the 
    Suspension Account of the tribe established under subsection (b).
        (B) Not later than 60 days after receiving a request for the 
    distribution of funds from a Suspension Account made by a tribe 
    under subparagraph (A)--
            (i) the Secretary shall, in cooperation with the Secretary 
        of the Treasury, withdraw and distribute such funds in 
        accordance with such request; and
            (ii) the Secretary of the Treasury shall terminate the 
        Suspension Account.
        (2) Other means of termination.--With respect to a Suspension 
    Account established under subsection (b) that is not terminated 
    pursuant to paragraph (1), at such time as the corpus and the 
    accrued interest of the Suspension Account of the Crow Tribe or the 
    Northern Cheyenne Tribe is approximately equal to the amount 
    specified in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a), the Secretary 
    of the Treasury shall terminate the Suspension Account and the 
    Secretary of the Interior shall distribute the funds from the 
    Suspension Account to the tribe.

SEC. 11. FORT LARAMIE TREATY OF 1868.

    Except for the adjustment to the eastern boundary of the Crow 
Indian Reservation, nothing in this Act or in the Settlement Agreement 
shall affect or modify the terms and conditions of the treaty between 
the United States of America and the Crow Tribe of Indians concluded 
May 7, 1868 (commonly known as the ``Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868''; 15 
Stat. 649).

SEC. 12. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.

    The benefits available to the Crow Tribe under the terms and 
conditions of this Act and the Settlement Agreement shall constitute 
full and complete satisfaction of all claims by the Crow Tribe and the 
members of the Crow Tribe arising from or related to the erroneous 
survey of the 107th meridian described in section 2(a)(3).

SEC. 13. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the 
Interior such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.