[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 898 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.898
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the Air Force Memorial Foundation to establish a memorial 
in the

                  District of Columbia or its environs.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.

    (a) In General.--The Air Force Memorial Foundation is authorized to 
establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of Columbia or its 
environs to honor the men and women who have served in the United States 
Air Force and its predecessors.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial shall be in accordance with the Act 
entitled ``An Act to provide standards for placement of commemorative 
works on certain Federal lands in the District of Columbia and its 
environs, and for other purposes'', approved November 14, 1986 (40 
U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).

SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.

    The Air Force Memorial Foundation shall be solely responsible for 
acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
establishment of the memorial. No Federal funds may be used to pay any 
expense of the establishment of the memorial.

SEC. 3. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.

    If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the 
memorial (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for 
in section 8(b) of the Act referred to in section 1(b)), or upon 
expiration of the authority for the memorial under section 10(b) of such 
Act, there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of 
the memorial, the Air Force Memorial Foundation shall transmit the 
amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in 
the account provided for in section 8(b)(1) of such Act.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.