[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 572 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.572

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act


 
                   For the relief of Melissa Johnson.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PAYMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF CLAIMANT.

    The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $125,000 to Melissa Johnson of 
Barryville, New York. Such sum shall be in full and complete settlement 
of all claims against the United States arising out of the personal 
injuries and mental pain and suffering incurred as a result of the 
sexual assault and molestation of Melissa Johnson by an employee of the 
United States Postal Service on June 3, 1982, and various other dates.

SEC. 2. DEPOSIT OF AMOUNT IN TRUST ACCOUNTS.

    Barbara Johnson Lizzi of Barryville, New York, the mother of 
Melissa Johnson, shall deposit the sum paid under section 1 in a 
federally insured depository institution in an interest bearing account 
or accounts in trust for Melissa Johnson. Barbara Johnson Lizzi shall 
serve as sole trustee of such account or accounts and, as such 
trustee--
        (1) shall pay those debts and obligations which are outstanding 
    at the time the sum is paid under section 1 to the extent those 
    debts and obligations arise from the injuries and pain and 
    suffering described in section 1;
        (2) shall, until Melissa Johnson reaches the age of majority 
    under the laws of the State in which Melissa Johnson is residing at 
    the time, pay, from the amounts in the trust account or accounts, 
    expenses incurred for Melissa Johnson's medical care and education; 
    and
        (3) shall, when Melissa Johnson reaches the age of majority 
    under the laws of the State in which Melissa Johnson is residing at 
    the time, pay to Melissa Johnson all amounts remaining in the trust 
    account or accounts.

SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON ATTORNEYS' FEES.

    Not more than 10 percent of the amount appropriated by section 1 
may be paid or delivered to or received by any agent or attorneyP
on account of services rendered in connection with the claim described 
in section 1, notwithstanding any contract which provides otherwise. 
Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty 
of an infraction and shall be subject to a fine in the amount provided 
in title 18, United States Code.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.