[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3616 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3616
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in 
commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the birth of Thomas Jefferson, 
Americans who have been prisoners of war, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Memorial, and the Women 
in Military Service for America Memorial, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
              TITLE I--THOMAS JEFFERSON COMMEMORATIVE COIN

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Jefferson Commemorative Coin Act of 
1993''.

SEC. 102. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) One-Dollar Silver Coins.--
        (1) Issuance.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this 
    title referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall issue not more than 
    600,000 one-dollar coins, which shall--
            (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (C) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
        (2) Design.--The design of the coins issued under this title 
    shall be emblematic of a profile of Thomas Jefferson and a frontal 
    view of his home Monticello. On each coin there shall be a 
    designation of the value of the coin, an inscription of the year 
    ``1993'', and inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
    Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins issued under this title shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of title 
31, United States Code, all coins minted under this title shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 103. SOURCES OF BULLION.

    The Secretary shall obtain silver for the coins minted under this 
title only from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical 
Minerals Stock Piling Act.

SEC. 104. SELECTION OF DESIGN.

    Subject to section 102(a)(2), the design for the coins authorized by 
this title shall be--
        (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
    Executive Director of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation and 
    the Commission of Fine Arts; and
        (2) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Advisory Committee.

SEC. 105. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) Quality of Coins.--Coins minted under this title shall be issued 
in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (b) Mint Facility.--Only 1 facility of the United States Mint may be 
used to strike any particular quality of the coins minted under this 
title.
    (c) Period for Issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted under 
this title during the period beginning on May 1, 1994, and ending on 
April 30, 1995.

SEC. 106. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins authorized under this title shall be sold 
by the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of the face value of the 
coins, the surcharge provided in subsection (c) with respect to such 
coins, and the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including labor, 
materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and 
shipping).
    (b) Prepaid Orders.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for 
the coins authorized under this title prior to the issuance of such 
coins. Sale prices with respect to such prepaid orders shall be at a 
reasonable discount.
    (c) Surcharges.--All sales shall include a surcharge of $10 per 
coin.

SEC. 107. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), no provision 
of law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to 
the procurement of goods and services necessary for carrying out the 
provisions of this title.
    (b) Equal Employment Opportunity.--Subsection (a) shall not relieve 
any person entering into a contract under the authority of this title 
from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.

SEC. 108. DISTRIBUTION OF SURCHARGES.

    All surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of coins 
issued under this title shall be promptly paid by the Secretary--
        (1) in the case of surcharges received in connection with the 
    sale of the first 500,000 coins issued, to the Jefferson Endowment 
    Fund, to be used--
            (A) to establish and maintain an endowment to be a permanent 
        source of support for Monticello and its historic furnishings; 
        and
            (B) for the Jefferson Endowment Fund's educational programs, 
        including the International Center for Jefferson Studies; and
        (2) in the case of surcharges received in connection with the 
    sale of all other such coins, to the Corporation for Jefferson's 
    Poplar Forest, to be used for the restoration and maintenance of 
    Poplar Forest.

SEC. 109. AUDITS.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall have the right to 
examine such books, records, documents, and other data of the entities 
specified in section 108, as may be related to the expenditures of 
amounts paid under section 108.

SEC. 110. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    (a) No Net Cost to the Government.--The Secretary shall take such 
actions as may be necessary to ensure that minting and issuing coins 
under this title will not result in any net cost to the United States 
Government.
    (b) Payment for Coins.--A coin shall not be issued under this title 
unless the Secretary has received--
        (1) full payment for the coin;
        (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the 
    United States for full payment; or
        (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary 
    from a depository institution whose deposits are insured by the 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union 
    Administration Board.
          TITLE II--UNITED STATES VETERANS COMMEMORATIVE COINS

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``United States Veterans 
Commemorative Coin Act of 1993''.

SEC. 202. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.

    (a) One-Dollar Silver Coins.--
        (1) Issuance.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this 
    title referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall issue one-dollar coins 
    of 3 different designs, which shall--
            (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (C) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
        (2) Designation of value and inscriptions.--On each coin there 
    shall be a designation of the value of the coin, an inscription of 
    the year ``1994'', and inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In 
    God We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus 
    Unum''.
        (3) Design of 3 coins.--
            (A) Prisoner-of-war commemorative coin.--1 type of coin 
        issued under this title shall be a prisoner-of-war commemorative 
        coin the design of which shall be emblematic of the experience 
        of Americans who have been prisoners-of-war.
            (B) Vietnam veterans memorial commemorative coin.--1 type of 
        coin issued under this title shall be a Vietnam Veterans 
        Memorial commemorative coin the design of which shall be 
        emblematic of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
            (C) Women in military service for america memorial 
        commemorative coin.--1 type of coin issued under this title 
        shall be Women in Military Service for America Memorial 
        commemorative coin the design of which shall be symbolic of 
        women's service in the Armed Forces of the United States.
        (4) Maximum number for coins of each design.--The Secretary 
    shall issue no more than 500,000 coins of each design.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins issued under this title shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of title 
31, United States Code, all coins minted under this title shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 203. SOURCES OF BULLION.

    The Secretary shall obtain silver for the coins minted under this 
title only from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical 
Minerals Stock Piling Act.

SEC. 204. SELECTION OF DESIGN.

    Subject to section 202(a)(3), the design for the coins authorized by 
this title shall be--
        (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
    Commission of Fine Arts and--
            (A) in the case of the coin described in section 
        202(a)(3)(B), the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund; and
            (B) in the case of the coin described in section 
        202(a)(3)(C), the Women in Military Service for America Memorial 
        Foundation, Incorporated; and
        (2) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Advisory Committee.

SEC. 205. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--The coins issued under this title shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the face value, plus the cost of 
designing and issuing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use 
of machinery, and overhead expenses) and the surcharge provided for in 
subsection (d).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales at a reasonable 
discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for 
the coins issued under this title before the issuance of such coins. 
Sales under this subsection shall be at a reasonable discount to reflect 
the benefit of prepayment.
    (d) Surcharges.--All sales of coins issued under this title shall 
include a surcharge of $10 per coin.

SEC. 206. ISSUANCE OF THE COINS.

    (a) Commencement of Issuance.--The coins minted under this title may 
be issued beginning May 1, 1994.
    (b) Termination of Authority.--The coins authorized under this title 
may not be minted after April 30, 1995.
    (c) Proof and Uncirculated Coins.--The coins authorized under this 
title shall be issued in uncirculated and proof qualities.
    (d) 3-Coin Sets.--
        (1) In general.--In addition to any other manner and form of 
    sales of coins minted under this title, the Secretary shall make a 
    portion of such coins available for sale in 3-coin sets containing 1 
    of each of the 3 designs of coins required pursuant to section 
    202(a)(3).
        (2) Number of sets.--The number of 3-coin sets made available 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be at the discretion of the 
    Secretary.

SEC. 207. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), no provision 
of law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to 
the procurement of goods and services necessary for carrying out the 
provisions of this title.
    (b) Equal Employment Opportunity.--Subsection (a) shall not relieve 
any person entering into a contract under the authority of this title 
from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.

SEC. 208. DISTRIBUTION OF SURCHARGES.

    (a) Prisoner-of-War Commemorative Coins.--Except as provided in 
subsection (d), an amount equal to the surcharges received by the 
Secretary from the sale of prisoner-of-war commemorative coins described 
in section 202(a)(3)(A) shall be promptly paid by the Secretary in the 
order that follows:
        (1) Amounts to be made available for construction of museum.--
    The Secretary of the Treasury shall make available to the Secretary 
    of the Interior the first $3,000,000 of such surcharges for the 
    construction of the Andersonville Prisoner-of-War Museum in 
    Andersonville, Georgia.
        (2) Amounts to be paid to endowment fund.--After payment of the 
    amount required by paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Treasury 
    shall pay 50 percent of the remaining surcharges to the endowment 
    fund established pursuant to section 209(a).
        (3) Amounts to be paid to maintain national cemeteries.--After 
    payment of the amount required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    pay 50 percent of the remaining surcharges to the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs for purposes of maintaining national cemeteries 
    pursuant to chapter 24 of title 38, United States Code.
    (b) Vietnam Veterans Memorial Commemorative Coins.--Except as 
provided in subsection (d), an amount equal to the surcharges received 
by the Secretary from the sale of Vietnam Veterans Memorial 
commemorative coins described in section 202(a)(3)(B) shall be promptly 
paid by the Secretary to the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund to assist 
the Fund's efforts to raise an endowment to be a permanent source of 
support for the repair, maintenance, and addition of names to the 
Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
    (c) Women in Military Service for America Memorial Commemorative 
Coins.--Except as provided in subsection (d), an amount equal to the 
surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of Women in Military 
Service for America Memorial commemorative coins described in section 
202(a)(3)(C) shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Women in 
Military Service for America Memorial Foundation, Inc., for the purpose 
of creating, endowing, and dedicating the Women in Military Service for 
America Memorial.
    (d) Surcharges From 3-Coin Sets.--In the case of surcharges derived 
from the sale of 3-coin sets pursuant to section 206(d)--
        (1) \1/3\ of such amount shall be distributed as provided in 
    subsection (a);
        (2) \1/3\ shall be distributed as provided in subsection (b); 
    and
        (3) \1/3\ shall be distributed as provided in subsection (c).
    SEC. 209. ANDERSONVILLE PRISONER-OF-WAR MUSEUM ENDOWMENT FUND.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the Department of 
the Interior an endowment fund (hereinafter in this section referred to 
as the ``fund'') to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior and 
to consist of the amounts deposited under subsection (b).
    (b) Deposit Into Fund.--
        (1) Deposit from surcharges.--There shall be deposited into the 
    fund such amounts that are paid by the Secretary under section 
    208(a)(2).
        (2) Investment.--The Secretary of the Interior shall have the 
    authority to invest the portion of the fund that is not, in the 
    determination of such Secretary, required to meet the current needs 
    of the fund, in obligations of the United States or in obligations 
    guaranteed as to the principal and interest by the United States. In 
    making such investments, the Secretary of the Interior shall select 
    obligations having maturities suitable to the needs of the fund.
    (c) Expenditures.--The Secretary of the Interior may use the amounts 
deposited in the fund under this title to pay for the maintenance of the 
Andersonville Prisoner-of-War Museum in Andersonville, Georgia.

SEC. 210. AUDITS.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall have the right to 
examine such books, records, documents, and other data of the entities 
specified in section 208, as may be related to the expenditures of 
amounts paid under section 208.

SEC. 211. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    (a) No Net Cost to the Government.--The Secretary shall take such 
actions as may be necessary to ensure that minting and issuing coins 
under this title will not result in any net cost to the United States 
Government.
    (b) Payment for Coins.--A coin shall not be issued under this title 
unless the Secretary has received--
        (1) full payment for the coin;
        (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the 
    United States for full payment; or
        (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary 
    from a depository institution whose deposits are insured by the 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union 
    Administration Board.
            TITLE III--REFORM OF COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAMS

SEC. 301. SENSE OF CONGRESS RESOLUTION.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress hereby makes the following findings:
        (1) Congress has authorized 18 commemorative coin programs in 
    the 9 years since 1984.
        (2) There are more meritorious causes, events, and people worthy 
    of commemoration than can be honored with commemorative coinage.
        (3) Commemorative coin legislation has increased at a pace 
    beyond that which the numismatic community can reasonably be 
    expected to absorb.
        (4) It is in the interests of all Members of Congress that a 
    policy be established to control the flow of commemorative coin 
    legislation.
    (b) Declaration.--It is the sense of the Congress that the Committee 
on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
should not report or otherwise clear for consideration by the House of 
Representatives or the Senate legislation providing for more than 2 
commemorative coin programs for any year, unless the committee 
determines, on the basis of a recommendation by the Citizens 
Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee, that extraordinary merit exists 
for an additional commemorative coin program.
    SEC. 302. REPORTS BY RECIPIENTS OF COMMEMORATIVE COIN SURCHARGES.
    (a) Quarterly Financial Report.--
        (1) In general.--Each person who receives, after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, any surcharge derived from the sale of 
    commemorative coins under any Act of Congress shall submit a 
    quarterly financial report to the Director of the United States Mint 
    and the Comptroller General of the United States describing in 
    detail the expenditures made by such person from the proceeds of the 
    surcharge.
        (2) Information to be included.--The report under paragraph (1) 
    shall include information on the proportion of the surcharges 
    received during the period covered by the report to the total 
    revenue of such person during such period, expressed as a 
    percentage, and the percentage of total revenue during such period 
    which was spent on administrative expenses (including salaries, 
    travel, overhead, and fund raising).
        (3) Due dates.--Quarterly reports under this subsection shall be 
    due at the end of the 30-day period beginning on the last day of any 
    calendar quarter during which any surcharge derived from the sale of 
    commemorative coins is received by any person.
    (b) Final Report.--Each person who receives, after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, any surcharge derived from the sale of 
commemorative coins under any Act of Congress shall submit a final 
report on the expenditures made by such person from the proceeds of all 
surcharges received by such person, including information described in 
subsection (a)(2), before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the 
last day on which sales of such coins may be made.

SEC. 303. GAO REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    Before the end of the 1-year period beginning on the last day on 
which sales of commemorative coins may be made under the Act of Congress 
which authorized such coins, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit a financial accounting statement to the Congress on 
the payment of any surcharges derived from the sale of such coins and 
the use and expenditure of the proceeds of such surcharges by any 
recipient (other than a recipient which is an agency or department of 
the Federal Government) based on the reports filed by such recipient 
with the Comptroller General in accordance with section 302 and any 
audit of such recipient which is conducted by the Comptroller General 
with respect to the use and expenditure of such proceeds.
 TITLE IV--BICENTENNIAL OF THE UNITED STATES CAPITOL COMMEMORATIVE COIN 
                                   ACT

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Bicentennial of the United States 
Capitol Commemorative Coin Act''.

SEC. 402. SPECIFICATIONS OF COINS.

    (a) One-Dollar Silver Coins.--
        (1) Issuance.--The Secretary of the Treasury (hereinafter in 
    this title referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue 
    not more than 500,000 one-dollar coins each of which shall--
            (A) weigh 26.73 grams;
            (B) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
            (C) be composed of 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
        (2) Design.--The design of the one-dollar coins shall, in 
    accordance with section 404, be emblematic of the bicentennial of 
    the United States Capitol. Each one-dollar coin shall bear a 
    designation of the value of the coin, an inscription of the year 
    ``1994'', and inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
    Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.
    (b) Legal Tender.--The coins minted under this title shall be legal 
tender as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5132(a)(1) of title 
31, United States Code, all coins minted under this title shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 403. SOURCES OF BULLION.

    The Secretary shall obtain silver for minting coins under this title 
only from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical 
Minerals Stock Piling Act.

SEC. 404. DESIGN OF COINS.

    The design for the coin authorized by this title shall be selected 
by the Secretary after consultation with the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives, the President pro tempore of the Senate, and the 
Commission of Fine Arts.

SEC. 405. ISSUANCE OF COINS.

    (a) One-Dollar Coins.--The one-dollar coins minted under this title 
may be issued in uncirculated and proof qualities, except that not more 
than 1 facility of the United States Mint may be used to strike any 
particular quality.
    (b) Commencement of Issuance.--The Secretary may issue the coins 
minted under this title beginning May 1, 1994.
    (c) Termination of Authority.--Coins may not be minted under this 
title after April 30, 1995.
    (d) Contracts.--Any contract to be made by the Secretary involving 
the promotion, advertising, or marketing of any coins authorized under 
this title shall be valid only upon approval by the United States 
Capitol Preservation Commission.

SEC. 406. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary shall sell the coins minted under this title at a price equal 
to the face value, plus the cost of designing and issuing the coins 
(including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead 
expenses).
    (b) Bulk Sales.--The Secretary shall make any bulk sales of the 
coins minted under this title at a reasonable discount.
    (c) Prepaid Orders.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for 
the coins minted under this title prior to the issuance of such coins. 
Sale prices with respect to such prepaid orders shall be at a reasonable 
discount.
    (d) Surcharges.--All sales of coins minted under this title shall 
include a surcharge of $15 per coin.

SEC. 407. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    (a) No Net Cost to the Government.--The Secretary shall take such 
actions as may be necessary to ensure that minting and issuing coins 
under this title will not result in any net cost to the United States 
Government.
    (b) Payment for Coins.--A coin shall not be issued under this title 
unless the Secretary has received--
        (1) full payment for the coin;
        (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the 
    United States for full payment; or
        (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary 
    from a depository institution whose deposits are insured by the 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union 
    Administration Board.

SEC. 408. USE OF SURCHARGES.

    (a) Use of Surcharges.--All surcharges that are received by the 
Secretary from the sale of coins minted under this title shall be 
deposited in the Capitol Preservation Fund and be available to the 
United States Capitol Preservation Commission.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 8(b)(1) of Public Law 100-673 is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Limitations on reimbursements.--No amount received by the 
    Commission from the Capitol Preservation Fund from the sale of coins 
    minted under this Act may be used to pay representational expenses 
    of the Commission.''.

SEC. 409. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), no provision 
of law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to 
the procurement of goods and services necessary for carrying out the 
provisions of this title.
    (b) Equal Employment Opportunity.--Subsection (a) shall not relieve 
any person entering into a contract under the authority of this title 
from complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.