[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 914 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.914
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain segments 
of the Red River in Kentucky as components of the national wild and 
scenic rivers system, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Red River Designation Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) the natural, scenic, and recreational qualities of the Red 
    River in Kentucky are unique and irreplaceable resources; and
        (2) the majority of the Red River corridor is within the Red 
    River National Geologic area, which contains sedimentary rock 
    formations unique to Kentucky and the United States, and should 
    therefore be preserved for public enjoyment.

SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF RIVER.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``( )(A) Red river, kentucky.--The 19.4-mile segment of the Red 
River extending from the Highway 746 Bridge to the School House Branch, 
to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following 
classes:
        ``(i) The 9.1-mile segment known as the `Upper Gorge' from the 
    Highway 746 Bridge to Swift Camp Creek, as a wild river. This 
    segment is identified as having the same boundary as the Kentucky 
    Wild River.
        ``(ii) The 10.3-mile segment known as the `Lower Gorge' from 
    Swift Camp Creek to the School House Branch, as a recreational 
    river.
    ``(B) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
necessary to carry out this paragraph.''.

SEC. 4. LIMITATION.

    Nothing in this Act, or in the amendment to the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act made by this Act, shall be construed as authorizing any 
acquisition of any scenic easement that without the consent of such 
landowner would affect any regular use of relevant lands that was 
exercised prior to the acquisition of such easement.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.