[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3617 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3617
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 
1989,

                         and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 104 of the 
Everglades National Park Protection and Expansion Act of 1989 (16 U.S.C. 
410r-8) is hereby amended by adding at the end thereof the following new 
subsection:
    ``(k)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
Secretary is authorized to use funds appropriated pursuant to this Act, 
including any available funds appropriated to the National Park Service 
for construction in the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies 
Appropriations Acts for fiscal years 1991 through 1994 for project 
modifications by the Army Corps of Engineers, in such amounts as 
determined by the Secretary, to provide Federal assistance to the State 
of Florida (including political subdivisions of the State) for 
acquisition of lands described in paragraph (4).
    ``(2) With respect to any lands acquired pursuant to this 
subsection, the Secretary may provide not more than 25 percent of the 
total cost of such acquisition.
    ``(3) All funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall be 
transferred to the State of Florida or a political subdivision of the 
State, subject to an agreement that any lands acquired with such funds 
will be managed in perpetuity for the restoration of natural flows to 
the park or Florida Bay.
    ``(4) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are those lands or 
interests therein adjacent to, or affecting the restoration of natural 
water flows to, the park or Florida Bay which are located east of the 
park and known as the Frog Pond, Rocky Glades Agricultural Area, and the 
Eight-and-One-Half Square-Mile Area.''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.