[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5176 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5176

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act relating to San Diego 
ocean discharge and waste water reclamation.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ocean Pollution Reduction Act''.
SEC. 2. SAN DIEGO OCEAN DISCHARGE AND WASTE WATER RECLAMATION.
    Section 301(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
U.S.C. 1311(j)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(A) by inserting before the semicolon at 
    the end the following: ``, and except as provided in paragraph 
    (5)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) Extension of application deadline.--
            ``(A) In general.--In the 180-day period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this paragraph, the city of San Diego, 
        California, may apply for a modification pursuant to subsection 
        (h) of the requirements of subsection (b)(1)(B) with respect to 
        biological oxygen demand and total suspended solids in the 
        effluent discharged into marine waters.
            ``(B) Application.--An application under this paragraph 
        shall include a commitment by the applicant to implement a 
        waste water reclamation program that, at a minimum, will--
                ``(i) achieve a system capacity of 45,000,000 gallons 
            of reclaimed waste water per day by January 1, 2010; and
                ``(ii) result in a reduction in the quantity of 
            suspended solids discharged by the applicant into the 
            marine environment during the period of the modification.
            ``(C) Additional conditions.--The Administrator may not 
        grant a modification pursuant to an application submitted under 
        this paragraph unless the Administrator determines that such 
        modification will result in removal of not less than 58 percent 
        of the biological oxygen demand (on an annual average) and not 
        less than 80 percent of total suspended solids (on a monthly 
        average) in the discharge to which the application applies.
            ``(D) Preliminary decision deadline.--The Administrator 
        shall announce a preliminary decision on an application 
        submitted under this paragraph not later than 1 year after the 
        date the application is submitted.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.