[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4066 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.4066

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To suspend temporarily the duty on the personal effects of 
participants in, and certain other individuals associated with, the 1994 
World Cup Soccer Games, the 1994 World Rowing Championships, the 1995 
Special Olympics World Games, the 1996 Summer Olympics, and the 1996 
Paralympics.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TEMPORARY DUTY SUSPENSION FOR PERSONAL EFFECTS OF 
PARTICIPANTS IN CERTAIN WORLD ATHLETIC EVENTS.
    (a) In General._Subchapter II of chapter 99 of the Harmonized 
Tariff Schedule of the United States is amended by inserting in 
numerical sequence the following new heading:

  

``  9902.98.04  Any of the following articles not intended for             No change    Free   On or before     
                 sale or distribution to the public: personal                                  11/30/96       ''
                 effects of aliens who are participants in,                                                   . 
                 officials of, or accredited members of                                                         
                 delegations to, the 1994 FIFA World Cup Games,                                                 
                 the 1994 World Rowing Championships, the 1995                                                  
                 Special Olympics World Games, the XXVI Summer                                                  
                 Olympiad, and the 1996 Atlanta Paralympic Games,                                               
                 and of persons who are immediate family members                                                
                 of or servants to any of the foregoing persons;                                                
                 equipment and materials imported in connection                                                 
                 with the foregoing events by or on behalf of the                                               
                 foregoing persons or the organizing committees of                                              
                 such events; articles to be used in exhibitions                                                
                 depicting the culture of a country participating                                               
                 in any such event; and, if consistent with the                                                 
                 foregoing, such other articles as the Secretary                                                
                 of the Treasury may allow........................  Free                                        

    (b) Taxes and Fees Not To Apply._The articles described in heading 
9902.98.04 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (as 
added by subsection (a)) shall be free of taxes and fees which may be 
otherwise applicable.

SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) General Rule._The amendment made by this Act applies to 
articles entered, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or 
after the 15th day after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Reliquidation._Notwithstanding section 514 of the Tariff Act of 
1930 or any other provision of law, upon proper request (which includes 
sufficient information to identify and locate the entry) filed with the 
Customs Service on or before the date that is 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, any entry, or withdrawal from warehouse 
for consumption, of an article described in heading 9902.98.04 of the 
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (as added by section 1) 
that occurred_
        (1) after December 31, 1993, and before the date which is 15 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and
        (2) with respect to which there would have been no duty if the 
    amendment made by section 1 applied to such entry or withdrawal,
shall be liquidated or reliquidated as though such amendment applied to 
such entry or withdrawal.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.