[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4196 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4196

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To ensure that timber-dependent communities adversely affected by the 
Forest Plan for a Sustainable Economy and a Sustainable Environment 
qualify for loans and grants from the Rural Development Administration.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TEMPORARY EXPANDED ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN TIMBER-DEPENDENT 
COMMUNITIES IN THE PACIFIC NORTHWEST FOR LOANS AND GRANTS FROM THE 
RURAL DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) Timber-dependent communities in the Pacific Northwest have 
    contributed significantly to the economic needs of the United 
    States and have helped ensure an adequate national supply of timber 
    and timber products.
        (2) A significant portion of the timber traditionally harvested 
    in the Pacific Northwest is derived from Federal forest lands, and 
    these forests have played an important role in sustaining local 
    economies.
        (3) A number of traditionally timber-dependent communities are 
    experiencing significant economic difficulties as a result of their 
    proximity to the range of the northern spotted owl.
        (4) These timber-dependent communities need economic assistance 
    to help them diversify, including support from water and waste 
    facility loans and grants and community facility loans and grants 
    funded through the Rural Development Administration.
    (b) Expanded Eligibility.--During the period beginning on the date 
of the enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 1998, the 
terms ``rural'' and ``rural area'', as used in the Consolidated Farm 
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.), shall include any 
town, city, or municipality--
        (1) part or all of which lies within 100 miles of the boundary 
    of a national forest covered by the Federal document entitled 
    ``Forest Plan for a Sustainable Economy and a Sustainable 
    Environment'', dated July 1, 1993;
        (2) that is located in a county in which at least 15 percent of 
    the total primary and secondary labor and proprietor income is 
    derived from forestry, wood products, or forest-related industries 
    such as recreation and tourism; and
        (3) that has a population of not more than 25,000 inhabitants.
    (c) Effect on State Allotments of Funds.--This section shall not be 
taken into consideration in allotting funds to the various States for 
purposes of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 
1921 et seq.), or otherwise affect or alter the manner under which such 
funds were allotted to States before the date of the enactment of this 
Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.