[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 810 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.810

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  For the relief of Elizabeth M. Hill.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SATISFACTION OF CLAIM AGAINST THE UNITED STATES.

    The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to Elizabeth M. Hill--
        (1) the sum of $6,780, and
        (2) interest on such sum--
            (A) calculated at the rate determined in the manner 
        provided in subsections (a) and (b) of section 1961 of title 
        28, United States Code, and
            (B) payable for the period beginning on October 5, 1985, 
        and ending on the date on which such sum is paid.
Such sum represents the amount that was recovered by the United States 
under Public Law 87-693 (76 Stat. 593; 42 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.) in 
satisfaction of its claim against a tortiously liable third person for 
the value of medical care and treatment the United States furnished to 
Elizabeth M. Hill, but would have been recovered by Elizabeth M. Hill 
if a timely request for a waiver of such claim had been submitted on 
her behalf.

SEC. 2. LIMITATION ON ATTORNEY'S AND AGENT'S FEES.

    Not more than 10 percent of the sums appropriated by section 1 
shall be paid to or received by any agent or attorney for services 
rendered in connection with the claim described in such section. Any 
person who violates this section shall be fined not more than $1,000.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.