[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3679 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3679

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a program to 
be known as the Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and Design Program, and 
for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and 
Design Program Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (in this Act 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') may carry out in accordance with this 
Act a program to be known as the ``Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and 
Design Program'' (in this Act referred to as the ``Program'') to 
accomplish the goals of--
        (1) providing to school children environmental education 
    opportunities relating to the conservation and management of 
    migratory birds; and
        (2) increasing the capacity for schools, States, and other 
    educational programs to conduct conservation and education 
    programs.
    (b) Program Features.--The Program shall consist of--
        (1) conducting in all interested States the activities which on 
    the day before the date of the enactment of this Act are conducted 
    under the program known as the Junior Duck Stamp Conservation and 
    Design Program;
        (2) other activities authorized under the Program by this or 
    any other Act; and
        (3) any other activity necessary to carry out the conservation 
    and education goals of the Program.
    (c) Effort To Conduct Program in All States.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall take appropriate steps to 
    seek to conduct the Program in all of the 50 States.
        (2) Annual report.--The Secretary shall annually submit a 
    report to the Congress on the status of the Program in each of the 
    50 States.

SEC. 3. JUNIOR DUCK STAMP.

    (a) Competition.--As part of the Program, the Secretary may 
annually conduct a competition to--
        (1) solicit the submission by students at elementary and 
    secondary schools of designs relating to conservation of migratory 
    birds; and
        (2) select winning designs from among those submissions for use 
    for licensing and marketing under subsection (b).
    (b) Licensing and Marketing of Design of Junior Duck Stamps.--As 
part of the Program, the Secretary may--
        (1) license and market winning designs selected in competitions 
    under subsection (a); and
        (2) license and market stamps bearing those designs, which 
    shall be known as Junior Duck Stamps.
    (c) Use of Proceeds From Licensing and Marketing of Junior Duck 
Stamps and Junior Duck Stamp Designs.--Amounts received under 
subsection (b)--
        (1) shall be available to the Secretary until expended, without 
    further appropriations, solely for--
            (A) awards and scholarships to individuals who submit 
        designs in competitions under subsection (a), that are--
                (i) selected in such a competition as winning designs; 
            or
                (ii) otherwise determined in such a competition to be 
            superior;
            (B) awards to schools and other participants to further 
        education activities related to the conservation education 
        goals of the Program; and
            (C) expenses for licensing and marketing under subsection 
        (b); and
        (2) may not be used for administrative expenses of the Program.

SEC. 4. ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS, DEVISES, AND BEQUESTS.

    The Secretary may accept and use any gift, devise, or bequest of 
personal property, or proceeds thereof, for the purpose of funding the 
activities described in section 3(c)(1) (A) and (B).

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for 
administrative expenses of the Program $250,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 1995 through 2000.
SEC. 6. ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CENTER AND REFUGE HEADQUARTERS AT JOHN 
HEINZ NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE AT TINICUM.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding other laws and subject to 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, may transfer 
to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation the Cusano bequest.
    (b) Conditions of Transfer.--As a condition of transferring the 
Cusano bequest under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Interior 
shall require the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation to enter into 
an agreement under which the Foundation is required to--
        (1) solicit additional non-Federal contributions to provide a 
    dollar for dollar match of the Cusano bequest;
        (2) manage the Cusano bequest and those contributions in 
    accordance with all applicable requirements of the National Fish 
    and Wildlife Foundation Establishment Act (16 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.);
        (3) use all amounts and proceeds from the Cusano bequest and 
    any non-Federal contributions received pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    for the purpose of designing and constructing a facility for an 
    environmental education center and refuge headquarters on lands 
    located within the John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge at Tinicum; 
    and
        (4) donate the facility to the United States Fish and Wildlife 
    Service upon completion of its construction.
    (c) Cusano Bequest Defined.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``Cusano bequest'' means the amounts totaling approximately $2,473,971 
which were donated to the Department of the Interior in 1994 by Mr. 
Antonio Cusano of Crum Lynne, Pennsylvania, and includes all proceeds 
derived from such amounts in the period since the donation was made.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.