[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2411 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2411

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  For the relief of Leteane Clement Monatsi.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR LETEANE CLEMENT MONATSI.
    (a) In General.--Leteane Clement Monatsi shall be classified as a 
child under section 101(b)(1)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
for purposes of approval of a relative visa petition filed under 
section 204 of such Act by his adoptive parent and the filing of an 
application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Leteane Clement Monatsi enters the 
United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), 
he shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, 
if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under 
section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status are filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Leteane Clement Monatsi, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
for the current or next following fiscal year, the worldwide level of 
family-sponsored immigrants under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Leteane 
Clement Monatsi shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded 
any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality 
Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.