[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 904 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.904
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Airport and Airway Safety, Capacity, Noise Improvement, 
and Intermodal Transportation Act of 1992 with respect to the 
establishment of the National Commission to Ensure a Strong Competitive 
Airline Industry.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. NATIONAL COMMISSION TO ENSURE A STRONG COMPETITIVE AIRLINE 
              INDUSTRY.

    (a) Appointment of Members.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of 
section 204 of the Airport and Airway Safety, Capacity, Noise 
Improvement, and Intermodal Transportation Act of 1992 (49 U.S.C. App. 
1371 note) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of 15 
    voting members and 11 nonvoting members as follows:
            ``(A) 5 voting members and 1 nonvoting member appointed by 
        the President.
            ``(B) 3 voting members and 3 nonvoting members appointed by 
        the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            ``(C) 2 voting members and 2 nonvoting members appointed by 
        the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
            ``(D) 3 voting members and 3 nonvoting members appointed by 
        the majority leader of the Senate.
            ``(E) 2 voting members and 2 nonvoting members appointed by 
        the minority leader of the Senate.''.
    (b) Qualifications of Members.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (e) of 
such section is amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Qualifications.--Voting members appointed pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall be appointed from among individuals who are 
    experts in aviation economics, finance, international trade, and 
    related disciplines and who can represent airlines, passengers, 
    shippers, airline employees, aircraft manufacturers, general 
    aviation, and the financial community.''.
    (c) Travel Expenses.--Paragraph (5) of subsection (e) of such 
section is amended by striking ``sections 5702 and 5703'' and inserting 
``subchapter I of chapter 57''.
    (d) Chairman.--Paragraph (6) of subsection (e) of such section is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(6) Chairman.--The President, in consultation with the Speaker 
    of the House of Representatives and the majority leader of the 
    Senate, shall designate the Chairman of the Commission from among 
    its voting members.''.
    (e) Commission Panels.--
        (1) In general.--Such section is further amended by inserting 
    after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Commission Panels.--The Chairman shall establish such panels 
consisting of voting members of the Commission as the Chairman 
determines appropriate to carry out the functions of the Commission.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), (j), 
    and (k) of such section are redesignated as subsections (g), (h), 
    (i), (k), (l), and (m), respectively.
    (f) Staff and Other Support.--Such section is further amended by 
inserting after subsection (i) (as redesignated by subsection (e)(2) of 
this section) the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Staff and Other Support.--Upon the request of the Commission 
or a panel of the Commission, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
provide the Commission or panel with staff and other support to assist 
the Commission or panel in carrying out its responsibilities.''.
    (g) Report.--Subsection (l) of such section (as redesignated by 
subsection (e)(2) of this section) is amended by striking ``6 months'' 
and inserting ``90 days''.
    (h) Termination.--Subsection (m) of such section (as redesignated by 
subsection (e)(2) of this section) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``180th day'' and inserting ``30th day''; and
        (2) by striking ``subsection (j)'' and inserting ``subsection 
    (l)''.
    (i) Commission Expenditures.--Such section is furtherP amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Commission Expenditures.--Amounts expended to carry out this 
section shall not be considered expenses of advisory committees for 
purposes of section 312 of the Department of Transportation and Related 
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993.''.
    (j) Previously Appointed Members.--Such section is further amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(o) Previously Appointed Members.--Any appointment made to the 
Commission before the date of the enactment of this subsection shall not 
be effective after such date of enactment.''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.