[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2826 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2826

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for an investigation of the whereabouts of the United 
States citizens and others who have been missing from Cyprus since 1974.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. UNITED STATES CITIZENS MISSING FROM CYPRUS.

    (a) Investigation.--As soon as is practicable, the President shall 
undertake, in cooperation with appropriate international organizations 
or nongovernmental organizations, a thorough investigation of the 
whereabouts of the United States citizens who have been missing from 
Cyprus since 1974. Any information on others missing from Cyprus that 
is learned or discovered during this investigation shall be reported to 
the appropriate international or nongovernmental organizations. The 
investigation shall focus on the countries and communities which were 
combatants in Cyprus in 1974, all of which currently receive United 
States foreign assistance.
    (b) Report to the Families.--The President shall report the 
findings of this investigation of the missing Americans to the family 
of each of the United States citizens. Such reports shall include the 
whereabouts of the missing.
    (c) Report to the Congress.--The information learned or discovered 
during this investigation shall be reported to the Congress.
    (d) Returning the Missing.--The President, in cooperation with 
appropriate international organizations or nongovernmental 
organizations, shall do everything possible to return to their 
families, as soon as is practicable, the United States citizens who 
have been missing from Cyprus since 1974, and others who have been 
missing, including returning the remains of those who are no longer 
alive.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.