[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1130 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1130
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for continuing authorization of Federal employee leave 
transfer and

              leave bank programs, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Employees Leave Sharing 
Amendments Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. REPEAL OF TERMINATION PROVISION.

    Section 2(d) of the Federal Employees Leave Sharing Act of 1988 (5 
U.S.C. 6331 note) is repealed, effective as of October 30, 1993.
SEC. 3. ADVANCED LEAVE NOT TO BE CONSIDERED IN DETERMINING WHETHER ANY 
PAID LEAVE IS AVAILABLE.
    (a) In General.--Sections 6331(4) and 6361(6) of title 5, United 
States Code, are each amended by striking ``leave.'' and inserting 
``leave (disregarding any advanced leave).''.
    (b) Technical Correction.--Section 6331(4) of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``the term'' after ``(4)''.

SEC. 4. ACCRUAL OF LEAVE.

    Section 6337(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(c)(1) Any annual or sick leave accrued by an employee under this 
section shall be transferred to the appropriate leave account of such 
employee under subchapter I, and shall be available for use--
        ``(A) as of the beginning of the first applicable pay period 
    beginning after the date on which the employee's medical emergency 
    terminates as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of section 6335(a); 
    or
        ``(B) if the employee's medical emergency has not yet 
    terminated, once the employee has exhausted all transferred leave 
    made available to such employee under this subchapter.
    ``(2) In the event that the employee's medical emergency terminates 
as described in section 6335(a)(3)--
        ``(A) any leave accrued but not yet transferred under this 
    section shall not be credited to such employee; or
        ``(B) if there remains, as of the date the emergency so 
    terminates, any leave which became available to such employee under 
    paragraph (1)(B), such leave shall cease to be available for any 
    purpose.
    ``(d) Nothing in this section shall be considered to prevent, with 
respect to a continuing medical emergency, further transfers of leave 
for use after leave accrued under this section has been exhausted by the 
employee.''.
SEC. 5. EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION IN LEAVE BANK AND LEAVE TRANSFER 
PROGRAMS.
    (a) Authority To Participate in Both Programs.--
        (1) In general.--Section 6373 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:

``ยง6373. Authority to participate in both programs

    ``(a) The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe regulations 
under which an employee participating in a leave bank program under this 
subchapter may, subject to such terms or conditions as the Office may 
establish, also make or receive donations of leave under subchapter III.
    ``(b) Notwithstanding any provision of section 6337 or 6371, if an 
employee uses leave transferred to such employee under subchapter III 
and leave made available to such employee under this subchapter in 
connection with the same medical emergency, the maximum number of days 
of annual leave and sick leave, respectively, which may accrue to such 
employee in connection with such medical emergency shall be the same as 
if all of that leave had been made available to such employee under this 
subchapter.''.
        (2) Technical amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 63 
    of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 6373 and inserting the following:
``6373. Authority to participate in both programs.''.

    (b) Elimination of Provision Treating Leave Bank Program as a 
Demonstration Project.--Section 6362 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) in subsection (a) by striking ``(a)''.

SEC. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as provided in section 2, this Act and the amendments made by 
this Act shall take effect as of the 120th day after the date of the 
enactment of this Act or such earlier date as the Office of Personnel 
Management may by regulation prescribe.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.