[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1487 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1487
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
      Entitled the ``Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 1993''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Middle East Peace Facilitation Act of 
1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
        (1) the Palestine Liberation Organization has recognized the 
    State of Israel's right to exist in peace and security; accepted 
    United Nations Security Council resolutions 242 and 338; committed 
    itself to the peace process and peaceful coexistence with Israel, 
    free from violence and all other acts which endanger peace and 
    stability; and assumed responsibility over all Palestine Liberation 
    Organization elements and personnel in order to assure their 
    compliance, prevent violations, and discipline violators;
        (2) Israel has recognized the Palestine Liberation Organization 
    as the representative of the Palestinian people;
        (3) Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization signed a 
    Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government Arrangements on 
    September 13, 1993, at the White House;
        (4) the United States has resumed a bilateral dialogue with the 
    Palestine Liberation Organization; and
        (5) in order to implement the Declaration of Principles on 
    Interim Self-Government Arrangements and facilitate the Middle East 
    peace process, the President has requested flexibility to suspend 
    certain provisions of law pertaining to the Palestine Liberation 
    Organization.

SEC. 3. AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND CERTAIN PROVISIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the President may 
suspend any provision of law specified in subsection (d). Any such 
suspension shall cease to be effective on January 1, 1994, or such 
earlier date as the President may specify.
    (b) Conditions.--
        (1) Consultation.--Before exercising the authority provided in 
    subsection (a), the President shall consult with the relevant 
    congressional committees.
        (2) Presidential certification.--The President may exercise the 
    authority provided in subsection (a) only if the President certifies 
    to the relevant congressional committees that--
            (A) it is in the national interest of the United States to 
        exercise such authority; and
            (B) the Palestine Liberation Organization continues to abide 
        by all the commitments described in paragraph (4).
        (3) Requirement for continuing plo compliance.--Any suspension 
    under subsection (a) of a provision of law specified in subsection 
    (d) shall cease to be effective if the President certifies to the 
    relevant congressional committees that the Palestine Liberation 
    Organization has not continued to abide by all the commitments 
    described in paragraph (4).
        (4) PLO commitments described.--The commitments referred to in 
    paragraphs (2) and (3) are the commitments made by the Palestine 
    Liberation Organization--
            (A) in its letter of September 9, 1993, to the Prime 
        Minister of Israel;
            (B) in its letter of September 9, 1993, to the Foreign 
        Minister of Norway; and
            (C) in, and resulting from the implementation of, the 
        Declaration of Principles on Interim Self-Government 
        Arrangements signed on September 13, 1993.
    (c) Expectation of Congress Regarding Any Extension of Presidential 
Authority.--The Congress expects that any extension of the authority 
provided to the President in subsection (a) will be conditional on the 
Palestine Liberation Organization--
        (1) renouncing the Arab League boycott of Israel;
        (2) urging the nations of the Arab League to end the Arab League 
    boycott of Israel; and
        (3) cooperating with efforts undertaken by the President of the 
    United States to end the Arab League boycott of Israel.
    (d) Provisions That May Be Suspended.--The provisions that may be 
suspended under the authority of subsection (a) are the following:
        (1) Section 307 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
    2227) as it applies with respect to the Palestine Liberation 
    Organization or entities associated with it.
        (2) Section 114 of the Department of State Authorization Act, 
    Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 (22 U.S.C. 287e note) as it applies with 
    respect to the Palestine Liberation Organization or entities 
    associated with it.
        (3) Section 1003 of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, 
    Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989 (22 U.S.C. 5202).
        (4) Section 37 of the Bretton Woods Agreement Act (22 U.S.C. 
    286w) as it applies to the granting to the Palestine Liberation 
    Organization of observer status or other official status at any 
    meeting sponsored by or associated with the International Monetary 
    Fund. As used in this paragraph, the term ``other official status'' 
    does not include membership in the International Monetary Fund.
    (e) Relation to Other Authorities.--This section supersedes section 
578 of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs 
Appropriations Act, 1994 (Public Law 103-87).
    (f) Relevant Congressional Committees Defined.--As used in this 
section, the term ``relevant congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Banking, 
    Finance and Urban Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of 
    the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the Senate.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.