[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1614 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1614

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 and the National School Lunch 
Act to promote healthy eating habits for children and to extend certain 
authorities contained in such Acts through fiscal year 1998, and for 
other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Healthy Meals for 
Healthy Americans Act of 1994''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Sense of Congress.

            TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT

Sec. 101. Purchase of fresh fruits and vegetables.
Sec. 102. Delivery of commodities.
Sec. 103. Requirement of minimum percentage of commodity assistance.
Sec. 104. Combined Federal and State commodity purchases.
Sec. 105. Technical assistance to ensure compliance with nutritional 
          requirements.
Sec. 106. Nutritional and other program requirements.
Sec. 107. Nutritional requirements relating to provision of milk.
Sec. 108. Use of free and reduced price meal eligibility information.
Sec. 109. Automatic eligibility of Head Start participants.
Sec. 110. Use of nutrition education and training program resources.
Sec. 111. Special assistance for schools electing to serve all children 
          free lunches or breakfasts.
Sec. 112. Miscellaneous provisions and definitions.
Sec. 113. Food and nutrition projects.
Sec. 114. Summer food service program for children.
Sec. 115. Commodity distribution program.
Sec. 116. Child and adult care food program.
Sec. 117. Homeless children nutrition program.
Sec. 118. Pilot projects.
Sec. 119. Reduction of paperwork.
Sec. 120. Food service management institute.
Sec. 121. Compliance and accountability.
Sec. 122. Duties of the Secretary of Agriculture relating to 
          nonprocurement debarment under certain child nutrition 
          programs.
Sec. 123. Information clearinghouse.
Sec. 124. Guidance and grants for accommodating special dietary needs of 
          children with disabilities.
Sec. 125. Study of adulteration of juice products sold to school meal 
          programs.

           TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966

Sec. 201. School breakfast program.
Sec. 202. State administrative expenses.
Sec. 203. Competitive foods of minimal nutritional value.
Sec. 204. Special supplemental nutrition program.
Sec. 205. Nutrition education and training program.

                   TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 301. Consolidation of school lunch program and school breakfast 
          program into comprehensive meal program.
Sec. 302. Study and report relating to use of private food 
          establishments and caterers under school lunch program and 
          school breakfast program.
Sec. 303. Amendment to Commodity Distribution Reform Act and WIC 
          Amendments of 1987.
Sec. 304. Study of the effect of combining federally donated and 
          federally inspected meat or poultry.

                        TITLE IV--EFFECTIVE DATE

Sec. 401. Effective date.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) undernutrition can permanently retard physical growth, 
    brain development, and cognitive functioning of children;
        (2) the longer a child's nutritional, emotional, and 
    educational needs go unmet, the greater the likelihood of cognitive 
    impairment;
        (3) low-income children who attend school hungry score 
    significantly lower on standardized tests than non-hungry low-
    income children; and
        (4) supplemental nutrition programs under the National School 
    Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) and the Child Nutrition Act of 
    1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) can help to offset threats posed to a 
    child's capacity to learn and perform in school that result from 
    inadequate nutrient intake.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) funds should be made available for child nutrition programs 
    to remove barriers to the participation of needy children in the 
    school lunch program, school breakfast program, summer food service 
    program for children, and the child and adult care food program 
    under the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) and 
    the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.);
        (2) the Secretary of Agriculture should take actions to further 
    strengthen the efficiency of child nutrition programs by 
    streamlining administrative requirements to reduce the 
    administrative burden on participating schools and other meal 
    providers; and
        (3) as a part of efforts to continue to serve nutritious meals 
    to youths in the United States and to educate the general public 
    regarding health and nutrition issues, the Secretary of Agriculture 
    should take actions to coordinate the nutrition education efforts 
    of all nutrition programs.

            TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH ACT

SEC. 101. PURCHASE OF FRESH FRUITS AND VEGETABLES.

    Section 6(a) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(a)) 
is amended--
        (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``Any school'' and 
    inserting ``Except as provided in the next 2 sentences, any 
    school''; and
        (2) by inserting after the second sentence the following new 
    sentences: ``Any school food authority may refuse some or all of 
    the fresh fruits and vegetables offered to the school food 
    authority in any school year and shall receive, in lieu of the 
    offered fruits and vegetables, other more desirable fresh fruits 
    and vegetables that are at least equal in value to the fresh fruits 
    and vegetables refused by the school food authority. The value of 
    any fresh fruits and vegetables refused by a school under the 
    preceding sentence for a school year shall not be used to determine 
    the 20 percent of the total value of agricultural commodities and 
    other foods tendered to the school food authority in the school 
    year under the second sentence.''.

SEC. 102. DELIVERY OF COMMODITIES.

    Subsection (b) of section 6 of the National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1755(b)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) The Secretary shall deliver, to each State participating in 
the school lunch program under this Act, commodities valued at the 
total level of assistance authorized under subsection (c) for each 
school year for the school lunch program in the State, not later than 
September 30 of the following school year.''.

SEC. 103. REQUIREMENT OF MINIMUM PERCENTAGE OF COMMODITY ASSISTANCE.

    Section 6 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), in each school year the 
Secretary shall ensure that not less than 12 percent of the assistance 
provided under section 4, this section, and section 11 shall be in the 
form of commodity assistance provided under this section, including 
cash in lieu of commodities and administrative costs for procurement of 
commodities under this section.
    ``(2) If amounts available to carry out the requirements of the 
sections described in paragraph (1) are insufficient to meet the 
requirement contained in paragraph (1) for a school year, the Secretary 
shall, to the extent necessary, use the authority provided under 
section 14(a) to meet the requirement for the school year.''.

SEC. 104. COMBINED FEDERAL AND STATE COMMODITY PURCHASES.

    Section 7 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1756) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may 
enter into an agreement with a State agency, acting on the request of a 
school food service authority, under which funds payable to the State 
under section 4 or 11 may be used by the Secretary for the purpose of 
purchasing commodities for use by the school food service authority in 
meals served under the school lunch program under this Act.''.

SEC. 105. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO ENSURE COMPLIANCE WITH NUTRITIONAL 
              REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) School Lunch Program.--Section 9(a)(1) of the National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance and 
training, including technical assistance and training in the 
preparation of lower-fat versions of foods commonly used in the school 
lunch program under this Act, to schools participating in the school 
lunch program to assist the schools in complying with the nutritional 
requirements prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to subparagraph (A) 
and in providing appropriate meals to children with medically certified 
special dietary needs. The Secretary shall provide additional technical 
assistance to schools that are having difficulty maintaining compliance 
with the requirements.''.
    (b) Summer Food Service Program for Children.--Section 13(f) of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(f)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
    sentences: ``The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to 
    service institutions and private nonprofit organizations 
    participating in the program to assist the institutions and 
    organizations in complying with the nutritional requirements 
    prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection. The 
    Secretary shall provide additional technical assistance to those 
    service institutions and private nonprofit organizations that are 
    having difficulty maintaining compliance with the requirements.''; 
    and
        (2) in the fourth sentence (after the amendment made by 
    paragraph (1)), by striking ``Such meals'' and inserting ``Meals 
    described in the first sentence''.
    (c) Child and Adult Care Food Program.--Section 17(g)(1) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(g)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to those 
institutions participating in the program under this section to assist 
the institutions and family or group day care home sponsoring 
organizations in complying with the nutritional requirements prescribed 
by the Secretary pursuant to subparagraph (A). The Secretary shall 
provide additional technical assistance to those institutions and 
family or group day care home sponsoring organizations that are having 
difficulty maintaining compliance with the requirements.''.

SEC. 106. NUTRITIONAL AND OTHER PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Minimum Nutritional Requirements Based on Weekly Average of 
Nutrient Content of School Lunches.--Section 9(a)(1)(A) of the National 
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(1)(A)) (as amended by section 
105(a)) is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``; except that such minimum nutritional 
    requirements shall not'' and inserting ``, except that the minimum 
    nutritional requirements--
        ``(i) shall not'';
        (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; 
    and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
        ``(ii) shall, at a minimum, be based on the weekly average of 
    the nutrient content of school lunches.''.
    (b) Dietary Guidelines for Americans.--Section 9 of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 1758) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f)(1) Not later than the first day of the 1996-97 school year, 
the Secretary, State educational agencies, schools, and school food 
service authorities shall, to the maximum extent practicable, inform 
students who participate in the school lunch and school breakfast 
programs, and parents and guardians of the students, of--
        ``(A) the nutritional content of the lunches and breakfasts 
    that are served under the programs; and
        ``(B) the consistency of the lunches and breakfasts with the 
    guidelines contained in the most recent `Dietary Guidelines for 
    Americans' that is published under section 301 of the National 
    Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 
    5341) (referred to in this subsection as the `Guidelines'), 
    including the consistency of the lunches and breakfasts with the 
    guideline for fat content.
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), not later than the 
first day of the 1996-97 school year, schools that are participating in 
the school lunch or school breakfast program shall serve lunches and 
breakfasts under the programs that are consistent with the Guidelines 
(as measured in accordance with subsection (a)(1)(A)(ii) and section 
4(e)(1)).
    ``(B) State educational agencies may grant waivers from the 
requirements of subparagraph (A) subject to criteria established by the 
appropriate State educational agency. The waivers shall not permit 
schools to implement the requirements later than July 1, 1998, or a 
later date determined by the Secretary.
    ``(C) To assist schools in meeting the requirements of this 
paragraph, the Secretary--
        ``(i) shall--
            ``(I) develop, and provide to schools, standardized 
        recipes, menu cycles, and food product specification and 
        preparation techniques; and
            ``(II) provide to schools information regarding nutrient 
        standard menu planning, assisted nutrient standard menu 
        planning, and food-based menu systems; and
        ``(ii) may provide to schools information regarding other 
    approaches, as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(D) Schools may use any of the approaches described in 
subparagraph (C) to meet the requirements of this paragraph. In the 
case of schools that elect to use food-based menu systems to meet the 
requirements of this paragraph, the Secretary may not require the 
schools to conduct or use nutrient analysis.''.
    (c) Production Records.--Section 9 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1758) (as 
amended by subsection (b)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(g) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
subsection, the Secretary shall provide a notification to Congress that 
justifies the need for production records required under section 
210.10(b) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations, and describes how 
the Secretary has reduced paperwork relating to the school lunch and 
school breakfast programs.''.

SEC. 107. NUTRITIONAL REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO PROVISION OF MILK.

    Section 9(a)(2) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1758(a)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) Lunches served by schools participating in the school 
lunch program under this Act--
        ``(i) shall offer students fluid milk; and
        ``(ii) shall offer students a variety of fluid milk consistent 
    with prior year preferences unless the prior year preference for 
    any such variety of fluid milk is less than 1 percent of the total 
    milk consumed at the school.
    ``(B)(i) The Secretary shall purchase in each calendar year to 
carry out the school lunch program under this Act, and the school 
breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1773), lowfat cheese on a bid basis in a quantity that is 
the milkfat equivalent of the quantity of milkfat the Secretary 
estimates the Commodity Credit Corporation will purchase each calendar 
year as a result of the elimination of the requirement that schools 
offer students fluid whole milk and fluid unflavored lowfat milk, based 
on data provided by the Director of Office of Management and Budget.
    ``(ii) Not later than 30 days after the Secretary provides an 
estimate required under clause (i), the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report on whether the Director concurs with the estimate of the 
Secretary.
    ``(iii) The quantity of lowfat cheese that is purchased under this 
subparagraph shall be in addition to the quantity of cheese that is 
historically purchased by the Secretary to carry out school feeding 
programs. The Secretary shall take such actions as are necessary to 
ensure that purchases under this subparagraph shall not displace 
commercial purchases of cheese by schools.''.

SEC. 108. USE OF FREE AND REDUCED PRICE MEAL ELIGIBILITY INFORMATION.

    Section 9(b)(2)(C) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1758(b)(2)(C)) is amended by striking clause (iii) and inserting the 
following new clauses:
    ``(iii) The use or disclosure of any information obtained from an 
application for free or reduced price meals, or from a State or local 
agency referred to in clause (ii), shall be limited to--
        ``(I) a person directly connected with the administration or 
    enforcement of this Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
    U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), or a regulation issued pursuant to either 
    Act;
        ``(II) a person directly connected with the administration or 
    enforcement of--
            ``(aa) a Federal education program;
            ``(bb) a State health or education program administered by 
        the State or local educational agency (other than a program 
        carried out under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)); or
            ``(cc) a Federal, State, or local means-tested nutrition 
        program with eligibility standards comparable to the program 
        under this section; and
        ``(III)(aa) the Comptroller General of the United States for 
    audit and examination authorized by any other provision of law; and
        ``(bb) notwithstanding any other provision of law, a Federal, 
    State, or local law enforcement official for the purpose of 
    investigating an alleged violation of any program covered by 
    paragraph (1) or this paragraph.
    ``(iv) Information provided under clause (iii)(II) shall be limited 
to the income eligibility status of the child for whom application for 
free or reduced price meal benefits was made or for whom eligibility 
information was provided under clause (ii), unless the consent of the 
parent or guardian of the child for whom application for benefits was 
made is obtained.
    ``(v) A person described in clause (iii) who publishes, divulges, 
discloses, or makes known in any manner, or to any extent not 
authorized by Federal law (including a regulation), any information 
obtained under this subsection shall be fined not more than $1,000 or 
imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.''.

SEC. 109. AUTOMATIC ELIGIBILITY OF HEAD START PARTICIPANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9(b)(6) of the National School Lunch Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(6)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``a 
        member of'';
            (B) in clause (i)--
                (i) by inserting ``a member of'' after ``(i)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (C) in clause (ii)--
                (i) by inserting ``a member of'' after ``(ii)''; and
                (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
            ``; or''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new clause:
        ``(iii) enrolled as a participant in a Head Start program 
    authorized under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), on 
    the basis of a determination that the child is a member of a family 
    that meets the low-income criteria prescribed under section 
    645(a)(1)(A) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9840(a)(1)(A)).''; 
    and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``food stamps or aid to 
    families with dependent children'' and inserting ``food stamps or 
    aid to families with dependent children, or of enrollment or 
    participation in a Head Start program on the basis described in 
    subparagraph (A)(iii),''.
    (b) Child and Adult Care Food Program.--Section 17(c) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1766(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(5) A child shall be considered automatically eligible for 
benefits under this section without further application or eligibility 
determination, if the child is enrolled as a participant in a Head 
Start program authorized under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et 
seq.), on the basis of a determination that the child is a member of a 
family that meets the low-income criteria prescribed under section 
645(a)(1)(A) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9840(a)(1)(A)).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
become effective on September 25, 1995.

SEC. 110. USE OF NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM RESOURCES.

    Section 9 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758) (as 
amended by section 106(c)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) In carrying out this Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), a State educational agency may use resources 
provided through the nutrition education and training program 
authorized under section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 1788) for training aimed at improving the quality and acceptance 
of school meals.''.

SEC. 111. SPECIAL ASSISTANCE FOR SCHOOLS ELECTING TO SERVE ALL CHILDREN 
              FREE LUNCHES OR BREAKFASTS.

    Section 11(a)(1) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1759a(a)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)'';
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``In the case of'' and 
    inserting the following:
    ``(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), (D), or (E), in the 
case of''; and
        (3) by striking the third and fourth sentences and inserting 
    the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(C)(i) Except as provided in subparagraph (D), in the case of any 
school that--
        ``(I) elects to serve all children in the school free lunches 
    under the school lunch program during any period of 3 successive 
    school years, or in the case of a school that serves both lunches 
    and breakfasts, elects to serve all children in the school free 
    lunches and free breakfasts under the school lunch program and the 
    school breakfast program established under section 4 of the Child 
    Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773) during any period of 3 
    successive school years; and
        ``(II) pays, from sources other than Federal funds, for the 
    costs of serving the lunches or breakfasts that are in excess of 
    the value of assistance received under this Act and the Child 
    Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) with respect to the 
    number of lunches or breakfasts served during the period;
special assistance payments shall be paid to the State educational 
agency with respect to the school during the period on the basis of the 
number of lunches or breakfasts determined under clause (ii) or (iii).
    ``(ii) For purposes of making special assistance payments under 
clause (i), except as provided in clause (iii), the number of lunches 
or breakfasts served by a school to children who are eligible for free 
lunches or breakfasts or reduced price lunches or breakfasts during 
each school year of the 3-school-year period shall be considered to be 
equal to the number of lunches or breakfasts served by the school to 
children eligible for free lunches or breakfasts or reduced price 
lunches or breakfasts during the first school year of the period.
    ``(iii) For purposes of computing the amount of the payments, a 
school may elect to determine on a more frequent basis the number of 
children who are eligible for free or reduced price lunches or 
breakfasts who are served lunches or breakfasts during the 3-school-
year period.
    ``(D)(i) In the case of any school that, on the date of enactment 
of this subparagraph, is receiving special assistance payments under 
this paragraph for a 3-school-year period described in subparagraph 
(C), the State may grant, at the end of the 3-school-year period, an 
extension of the period for an additional 2 school years, if the State 
determines, through available socioeconomic data approved by the 
Secretary, that the income level of the population of the school has 
remained stable.
    ``(ii) A school described in clause (i) may reapply to the State at 
the end of the 2-school-year period described in clause (i) for the 
purpose of continuing to receive special assistance payments, as 
determined in accordance with this paragraph, for a subsequent 5-
school-year period. The school may reapply to the State at the end of 
the 5-school-year period, and at the end of each 5-school-year period 
thereafter for which the school receives special assistance payments 
under this paragraph, for the purpose of continuing to receive the 
payments for a subsequent 5-school-year period.
    ``(iii) If the Secretary determines after considering the best 
available socioeconomic data that the income level of families of 
children enrolled in a school has not remained stable, the Secretary 
may require the submission of applications for free and reduced price 
lunches, or for free and reduced price lunches and breakfasts, in the 
first school year of any 5-school-year period for which the school 
receives special assistance payments under this paragraph, for the 
purpose of calculating the special assistance payments.
    ``(iv) For the purpose of updating information and reimbursement 
levels, a school described in clause (i) that carries out a school 
lunch or school breakfast program may at any time require submission of 
applications for free and reduced price lunches or for free and reduced 
price lunches and breakfasts.
    ``(E)(i) In the case of any school that--
        ``(I) elects to serve all children in the school free lunches 
    under the school lunch program during any period of 4 successive 
    school years, or in the case of a school that serves both lunches 
    and breakfasts, elects to serve all children in the school free 
    lunches and free breakfasts under the school lunch program and the 
    school breakfast program during any period of 4 successive school 
    years; and
        ``(II) pays, from sources other than Federal funds, for the 
    costs of serving the lunches or breakfasts that are in excess of 
    the value of assistance received under this Act and the Child 
    Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) with respect to the 
    number of lunches or breakfasts served during the period;
total Federal cash reimbursements and total commodity assistance shall 
be provided to the State educational agency with respect to the school 
at a level that is equal to the total Federal cash reimbursements and 
total commodity assistance received by the school in the last school 
year for which the school accepted applications under the school lunch 
or school breakfast program, adjusted annually for inflation in 
accordance with paragraph (3)(B) and for changes in enrollment, to 
carry out the school lunch or school breakfast program.
    ``(ii) A school described in clause (i) may reapply to the State at 
the end of the 4-school-year period described in clause (i), and at the 
end of each 4-school-year period thereafter for which the school 
receives reimbursements and assistance under this subparagraph, for the 
purpose of continuing to receive the reimbursements and assistance for 
a subsequent 4-school-year period. The State may approve an application 
under this clause if the State determines, through available 
socioeconomic data approved by the Secretary, that the income level of 
the population of the school has remained consistent with the income 
level of the population of the school in the last school year for which 
the school accepted the applications described in clause (i).
    ``(iii) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
subparagraph, the Secretary shall evaluate the effects of this 
subparagraph and notify the Committee on Education and Labor of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
and Forestry of the Senate of the results of the evaluation.''.

SEC. 112. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Technical Amendment to Definition of School.--
        (1) In general.--Section 12(d)(5) of the National School Lunch 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(d)(5)) is amended--
            (A) in the first sentence--
                (i) in clause (A), by inserting ``and'' at the end;
                (ii) in clause (B), by striking ``, and'' and inserting 
            a period; and
                (iii) by striking clause (C); and
            (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``of clauses (A) 
        and (B)''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    become effective on October 1, 1995.
    (b) Reimbursement for Meals, Supplements, and Milk Under Certain 
Programs Contingent on Timely Submission of Claims and Final Program 
Operations Report.--Section 12 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1760) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary may 
provide reimbursements for final claims for service of meals, 
supplements, and milk submitted to State agencies by eligible schools, 
summer camps, family day care homes, institutions, and service 
institutions only if--
        ``(A) the claims have been submitted to the State agencies not 
    later than 60 days after the last day of the month for which the 
    reimbursement is claimed; and
        ``(B) the final program operations report for the month is 
    submitted to the Secretary not later than 90 days after the last 
    day of the month.
    ``(2) The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (1) at 
the discretion of the Secretary.''.
    (c) Expedited Rulemaking.--Section 12 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1760) 
(as amended by subsection (b)) is further amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(k)(1) Prior to the publication of final regulations that 
implement changes that are intended to bring the meal pattern 
requirements of the school lunch and breakfast programs into 
conformance with the guidelines contained in the most recent `Dietary 
Guidelines for Americans' that is published under section 301 of the 
National Nutrition Monitoring and Related Research Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 5341) (referred to in this subsection as the `Guidelines'), the 
Secretary shall issue proposed regulations permitting the use of food-
based menu systems.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code, not 
later than 45 days after the publication of the proposed regulations 
permitting the use of food-based menu systems, the Secretary shall 
publish notice in the Federal Register of, and hold, a public meeting 
with--
        ``(A) representatives of affected parties, such as Federal, 
    State, and local administrators, school food service 
    administrators, other school food service personnel, parents, and 
    teachers; and
        ``(B) organizations representing affected parties, such as 
    public interest antihunger organizations, doctors specializing in 
    pediatric nutrition, health and consumer groups, commodity groups, 
    food manufacturers and vendors, and nutritionists involved with the 
    implementation and operation of programs under this Act and the 
    Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.);
to discuss and obtain public comments on the proposed rule.
    ``(3) Not later than June 1, 1995, the Secretary shall issue final 
regulations to conform the nutritional requirements of the school lunch 
and breakfast programs with the Guidelines. The final regulations shall 
include--
        ``(A) rules permitting the use of food-based menu systems; and
        ``(B) adjustments to the rule on nutrition objectives for 
    school meals published in the Federal Register on June 10, 1994 (59 
    Fed. Reg. 30218).
    ``(4) No school food service authority shall be required to 
implement final regulations issued pursuant to this subsection until 
the regulations have been final for at least 1 year.
    ``(5) The final regulations shall reflect comments made at each 
phase of the proposed rulemaking process, including the public meeting 
required under paragraph (2).''.
    (d) Authority of Secretary to Waive Statutory and Regulatory 
Requirements.--Section 12 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1760) (as amended by subsection (c)) is further amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l)(1)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (4), the Secretary may 
waive any requirement under this Act or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), or any regulation issued under either such 
Act, for a State or eligible service provider that requests a waiver 
if--
        ``(i) the Secretary determines that the waiver of the 
    requirement would facilitate the ability of the State or eligible 
    service provider to carry out the purpose of the program;
        ``(ii) the State or eligible service provider has provided 
    notice and information to the public regarding the proposed waiver; 
    and
        ``(iii) the State or eligible service provider demonstrates to 
    the satisfaction of the Secretary that the waiver will not increase 
    the overall cost of the program to the Federal Government, and, if 
    the waiver does increase the overall cost to the Federal 
    Government, the cost will be paid from non-Federal funds.
    ``(B) The notice and information referred to in subparagraph 
(A)(ii) shall be provided in the same manner in which the State or 
eligible service provider customarily provides similar notices and 
information to the public.
    ``(2)(A) To request a waiver under paragraph (1), a State or 
eligible service provider (through the appropriate administering State 
agency) shall submit an application to the Secretary that--
        ``(i) identifies the statutory or regulatory requirements that 
    are requested to be waived;
        ``(ii) in the case of a State requesting a waiver, describes 
    actions, if any, that the State has undertaken to remove State 
    statutory or regulatory barriers;
        ``(iii) describes the goal of the waiver to improve services 
    under the program and the expected outcomes if the waiver is 
    granted;
        ``(iv) includes a description of the impediments to the 
    efficient operation and administration of the program;
        ``(v) describes the management goals to be achieved, such as 
    fewer hours devoted to, or fewer number of personnel involved in, 
    the administration of the program;
        ``(vi) provides a timetable for implementing the waiver; and
        ``(vii) describes the process the State or eligible service 
    provider will use to monitor the progress in implementing the 
    waiver, including the process for monitoring the cost implications 
    of the waiver to the Federal Government.
    ``(B) An application described in subparagraph (A) shall be 
developed by the State or eligible service provider and shall be 
submitted to the Secretary by the State.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary shall act promptly on a waiver request 
contained in an application submitted under paragraph (2) and shall 
either grant or deny the request. The Secretary shall state in writing 
the reasons for granting or denying the request.
    ``(B) If the Secretary grants a waiver request, the Secretary shall 
state in writing the expected outcome of granting the waiver.
    ``(C) The result of the decision of the Secretary shall be 
disseminated by the State or eligible service provider through normal 
means of communication.
    ``(D)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), a waiver granted by the 
Secretary under this subsection shall be for a period not to exceed 3 
years.
    ``(ii) The Secretary may extend the period if the Secretary 
determines that the waiver has been effective in enabling the State or 
eligible service provider to carry out the purposes of the program.
    ``(4) The Secretary may not grant a waiver under this subsection of 
any requirement relating to--
        ``(A) the nutritional content of meals served;
        ``(B) Federal reimbursement rates;
        ``(C) the provision of free and reduced price meals;
        ``(D) offer versus serve provisions;
        ``(E) limits on the price charged for a reduced price meal;
        ``(F) maintenance of effort;
        ``(G) equitable participation of children in private schools;
        ``(H) distribution of funds to State and local school food 
    service authorities and service institutions participating in a 
    program under this Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
    U.S.C. 1771 et seq.);
        ``(I) the disclosure of information relating to students 
    receiving free or reduced price meals and other recipients of 
    benefits;
        ``(J) prohibiting the operation of a profit producing program;
        ``(K) the sale of competitive foods;
        ``(L) the commodity distribution program under section 14;
        ``(M) the special supplemental nutrition program authorized 
    under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
    1786); and
        ``(N) enforcement of any constitutional or statutory right of 
    an individual, including any right under--
            ``(i) title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 
        2000d et seq.);
            ``(ii) section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
        U.S.C. 794);
            ``(iii) title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 
        U.S.C. 1681 et seq.);
            ``(iv) the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101 
        et seq.);
            ``(v) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 
        U.S.C. 12101 et seq.); and
            ``(vi) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
        U.S.C. 1400 et seq.).
    ``(5) The Secretary shall periodically review the performance of 
any State or eligible service provider for which the Secretary has 
granted a waiver under this subsection and shall terminate the waiver 
if the performance of the State or service provider has been inadequate 
to justify a continuation of the waiver. The Secretary shall terminate 
the waiver if, after periodic review, the Secretary determines that the 
waiver has resulted in an increase in the overall cost of the program 
to the Federal Government and the increase has not been paid for in 
accordance with paragraph (1)(A)(iii).
    ``(6)(A)(i) An eligible service provider that receives a waiver 
under this subsection shall annually submit to the State a report 
that--
        ``(I) describes the use of the waiver by the eligible service 
    provider; and
        ``(II) evaluates how the waiver contributed to improved 
    services to children served by the program for which the waiver was 
    requested.
    ``(ii) The State shall annually submit to the Secretary a report 
that summarizes all reports received by the State from eligible service 
providers.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall annually submit to the Committee on 
Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, a report--
        ``(i) summarizing the use of waivers by the State and eligible 
    service providers;
        ``(ii) describing whether the waivers resulted in improved 
    services to children;
        ``(iii) describing the impact of the waivers on providing 
    nutritional meals to participants; and
        ``(iv) describing how the waivers reduced the quantity of 
    paperwork necessary to administer the program.
    ``(7) As used in this subsection, the term `eligible service 
provider' means--
        ``(A) a local school food service authority;
        ``(B) a service institution or private nonprofit organization 
    described in section 13; or
        ``(C) a family or group day care home sponsoring organization 
    described in section 17.''.

SEC. 113. FOOD AND NUTRITION PROJECTS.

    Section 12 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760) (as 
amended by section 112(d)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(m)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the 
Food and Nutrition Service or through the Extension Service, shall 
award on an annual basis grants to a private nonprofit organization or 
educational institution in each of 3 States to create, operate, and 
demonstrate food and nutrition projects that are fully integrated with 
elementary school curricula.
    ``(2) Each organization or institution referred to in paragraph (1) 
shall be selected by the Secretary and shall--
        ``(A) assist local schools and educators in offering food and 
    nutrition education that integrates math, science, and verbal 
    skills in the elementary grades;
        ``(B) assist local schools and educators in teaching 
    agricultural practices through practical applications, like 
    gardening;
        ``(C) create community service learning opportunities or 
    educational programs;
        ``(D) be experienced in assisting in the creation of 
    curriculum-based models in elementary schools;
        ``(E) be sponsored by an organization or institution, or be an 
    organization or institution, that provides information, or conducts 
    other educational efforts, concerning the success and productivity 
    of American agriculture and the importance of the free enterprise 
    system to the quality of life in the United States; and
        ``(F) be able to provide model curricula, examples, advice, and 
    guidance to schools, community groups, States, and local 
    organizations regarding means of carrying out similar projects.
    ``(3) Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out 
this subsection, the Secretary shall make grants to each of the 3 
private organizations or institutions selected under this subsection in 
amounts of not less than $100,000, nor more than $200,000, for each of 
fiscal years 1995 through 1998.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall establish fair and reasonable auditing 
procedures regarding the expenditure of funds under this subsection.
    ``(5) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
subsection such sums as are necessary for each of fiscal years 1995 
through 1998.''.

SEC. 114. SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN.

    (a) Priority Requirements for Determining Participation of Certain 
Eligible Service Institutions.--Section 13(a)(4) of the National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(4)) is amended by striking subparagraphs 
(A) through (F) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
        ``(A) Local schools.
        ``(B) All other service institutions and private nonprofit 
    organizations eligible under paragraph (7) that have demonstrated 
    successful program performance in a prior year.
        ``(C) New public institutions.
        ``(D) New private nonprofit organizations eligible under 
    paragraph (7).''.
    (b) Elimination of 1-Year Waiting Period With Respect to 
Participation of Private Nonprofit Organizations in Certain Areas Under 
the Program.--Section 13(a)(7) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(7)) is 
amended by striking subparagraph (C).
    (c) Non-School Sites.--Section 13(c)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1761(c)(1)) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``or that provide meal service at non-school sites to 
children who are not in school for a period during the months of 
October through April due to a natural disaster, building repair, court 
order, or similar cause''.
    (d) Registered Food Service Management Company Reports.--Section 
13(l)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(l)(3)) is amended by striking 
``and their program record'' and inserting ``that have been seriously 
deficient in their participation in the program and may maintain a 
record of other registered food service management companies,''.
    (e) Management and Administration Plan.--Section 13(n) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1761(n)) is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraphs (5), (6), (8), and (10); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (7), (9), and (11) as 
    paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respectively;
        (3) by inserting ``and'' after the semicolon at the end of 
    paragraph (6) (as so redesignated); and
        (4) by striking ``; and (12)'' and all that follows through 
    ``reimbursement''.
    (f) Elimination of Warning in Private Nonprofit Organization 
Application Relating to Criminal Provisions and Related Matters.--
Section 13(q) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(q)) is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (2);
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (5) as paragraphs 
    (2) through (4), respectively; and
        (3) in paragraph (3) (as so redesignated), by striking 
    ``paragraphs (1) and (3)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) and 
    (2)''.
    (g) Extension of Program.--Section 13(r) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1761(r)) is amended by striking ``1994'' and inserting ``1998''.
    (h) All-Day Activities.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
    Act, in consultation with the heads of other Federal agencies, 
    identify sources of Federal funds that may be available from other 
    Federal agencies for service institutions under the summer food 
    service program for children established under section 13 of the 
    National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761) to carry out all-day 
    educational and recreational activities for children at feeding 
    sites under the program; and
        (2) notify through State agencies, as determined appropriate by 
    the Secretary, the service institutions of the sources.

SEC. 115. COMMODITY DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM.

    Section 14 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1762a) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``1994'' and inserting 
    ``1998''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall maintain and continue to improve the 
overall nutritional quality of entitlement commodities provided to 
schools to assist the schools in improving the nutritional content of 
meals.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall--
        ``(A) require that nutritional content information labels be 
    placed on packages or shipments of entitlement commodities provided 
    to the schools; or
        ``(B) otherwise provide nutritional content information 
    regarding the commodities provided to the schools.''.

SEC. 116. CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM.

    (a) Automatic Eligibility of Certain Even Start Participants.--
Section 17(c) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(c)) (as 
amended by section 109(b)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
    ``(6)(A) A child who has not yet entered kindergarten shall be 
considered automatically eligible for benefits under this section 
without further application or eligibility determination if the child 
is enrolled as a participant in the Even Start program under part B of 
chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.).
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall apply only with respect to the 
provision of benefits under this section for the period beginning 
September 1, 1995, and ending September 30, 1997.''.
    (b) Reapplication for Assistance at 3-Year Intervals.--Section 
17(d)(2)(A) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(d)(2)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``2-year intervals'' and inserting ``3-year intervals''.
    (c) Use of Administrative Funds to Conduct Outreach and Recruitment 
to Unlicensed Day Care Homes.--Section 17(f)(3)(C) of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 1766(f)(3)(C)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(i)'' after ``(C)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
    ``(ii) Funds for administrative expenses may be used by family or 
group day care home sponsoring organizations to conduct outreach and 
recruitment to unlicensed family or group day care homes so that the 
day care homes may become licensed.''.
    (d) Information and Training Concerning Child Health and 
Development.--Section 17(k) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(k)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The Secretary shall instruct States to provide, through 
sponsoring organizations, information and training concerning child 
health and development to family or group day care homes participating 
in the program.''.
    (e) Extension of Statewide Demonstration Projects.--Section 17(p) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766(p)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``25 percent of the 
    children served by such organization'' and inserting ``25 percent 
    of the children enrolled in the organization or 25 percent of the 
    licensed capacity of the organization for children, whichever is 
    less,'';
        (2) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking ``1992'' and inserting 
    ``1998''; and
        (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``1994'' and inserting 
    ``1998''.
    (f) WIC Information.--Section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(q)(1) The Secretary shall provide State agencies with basic 
information concerning the importance and benefits of the special 
supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children 
authorized under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
U.S.C. 1786).
    ``(2) The State agency shall--
        ``(A) provide each child care institution participating in the 
    program established under this section, other than institutions 
    providing day care outside school hours for schoolchildren, with 
    materials that include--
            ``(i) a basic explanation of the benefits and importance of 
        the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, 
        and children;
            ``(ii) the maximum income limits, according to family size, 
        applicable to children up to age 5 in the State under the 
        special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and 
        children; and
            ``(iii) a listing of the addresses and phone numbers of 
        offices at which parents may apply;
        ``(B) annually provide the institutions with an update of the 
    information on income limits described in subparagraph (A)(ii); and
        ``(C) ensure that, at least once a year, the institutions to 
    which subparagraph (A) applies provide written information to 
    parents that includes--
            ``(i) basic information on the benefits provided under the 
        special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and 
        children;
            ``(ii) information on the maximum income limits, according 
        to family size, applicable to the program; and
            ``(iii) information on where parents may apply to 
        participate in the program.''.

SEC. 117. HOMELESS CHILDREN NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    (a) Homeless Children Nutrition Program.--
        (1) In general.--The National School Lunch Act is amended by 
    inserting after section 17A (42 U.S.C. 1766a) the following new 
    section:

``SEC. 17B. HOMELESS CHILDREN NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct projects designed to 
provide food service throughout the year to homeless children under the 
age of 6 in emergency shelters.
    ``(b) Agreements To Participate in Projects.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall enter into agreements 
    with State, city, local, or county governments, other public 
    entities, or private nonprofit organizations to participate in the 
    projects conducted under this section.
        ``(2) Eligibility requirements.--The Secretary shall establish 
    eligibility requirements for the entities described in paragraph 
    (1) that desire to participate in the projects conducted under this 
    section. The requirements shall include the following:
            ``(A) Each private nonprofit organization shall operate not 
        more than 5 food service sites under the project and shall 
        serve not more than 300 homeless children at each such site.
            ``(B) Each site operated by each such organization shall 
        meet applicable State and local health, safety, and sanitation 
        standards.
    ``(c) Project Requirements.--
        ``(1) In general.--A project conducted under this section 
    shall--
            ``(A) use the same meal patterns and receive reimbursement 
        payments for meals and supplements at the same rates provided 
        to child care centers participating in the child care food 
        program under section 17 for free meals and supplements; and
            ``(B) receive reimbursement payments for meals and 
        supplements served on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, at the 
        request of the sponsor of any such project.
        ``(2) Modification.--The Secretary may modify the meal pattern 
    requirements to take into account the needs of infants.
        ``(3) Homeless children eligible for free meals without 
    application.--Homeless children under the age of 6 in emergency 
    shelters shall be considered eligible for free meals without 
    application.
    ``(d) Funding Priorities.--From the amount described in subsection 
(g), the Secretary shall provide funding for projects carried out under 
this section for a particular fiscal year (referred to in this 
subsection as the `current fiscal year') in the following order of 
priority, to the maximum extent practicable:
        ``(1) The Secretary shall first provide the funding to entities 
    and organizations, each of which--
            ``(A) received funding under this section or section 18(c) 
        (as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
        section) to carry out a project for the preceding fiscal year; 
        and
            ``(B) is eligible to receive funding under this section to 
        carry out the project for the current fiscal year;
    to enable the entity or organization to carry out the project under 
    this section for the current fiscal year at the level of service 
    provided by the project during the preceding fiscal year.
        ``(2) From the portion of the amount that remains after the 
    application of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide funds to 
    entities and organizations, each of which is eligible to receive 
    funding under this section, to enable the entity or organization to 
    carry out a new project under this section for the current fiscal 
    year, or to expand the level of service provided by a project for 
    the current fiscal year over the level provided by the project 
    during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(e) Notice.--The Secretary shall advise each State of the 
availability of the projects conducted under this subsection for 
States, cities, counties, local governments, and other public entities, 
and shall advise each State of the procedures for applying to 
participate in the project.
    ``(f) Plan To Allow Participation in the Child and Adult Care Food 
Program.--Not later than September 30, 1996, the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate 
a plan describing--
        ``(1) how emergency shelters and homeless children who have not 
    attained the age of 6 and who are served by the shelters under the 
    program might participate in the child and adult care food program 
    authorized under section 17 by September 30, 1998; and
        ``(2) the advantages and disadvantages of the action described 
    in paragraph (1).
    ``(g) Funding.--
        ``(1) In general.--In addition to any amounts made available 
    under section 7(a)(5)(B)(i)(I) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
    (42 U.S.C. 1776(a)(5)(B)(i)(I)) and any amounts that are otherwise 
    made available for fiscal year 1995, out of any moneys in the 
    Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury 
    shall provide to the Secretary to carry out this section $1,800,000 
    for fiscal year 1995, $2,600,000 for fiscal year 1996, $3,100,000 
    for fiscal year 1997, $3,400,000 for fiscal year 1998, and 
    $3,700,000 for fiscal year 1999 and each succeeding fiscal year. 
    The Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and shall 
    accept the funds.
        ``(2) Insufficient number of applicants.--The Secretary may 
    expend less than the amount described in paragraph (1) for a fiscal 
    year if there is an insufficient number of suitable applicants to 
    carry out projects under this section for the fiscal year. Any 
    funds made available under this subsection to carry out the 
    projects for a fiscal year that are not obligated to carry out the 
    projects in the fiscal year shall remain available until expended 
    for purposes of carrying out the projects.
    ``(h) Definition of emergency shelter.--As used in this section, 
the term `emergency shelter' has the meaning provided the term in 
section 321(2) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 
U.S.C. 11351(2)).''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) National school lunch act.--Section 18 of the National 
        School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) is amended by striking 
        subsection (c).
            (B) Child nutrition act of 1966.--Section 7(a)(5)(B)(i)(I) 
        of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
        1776(a)(5)(B)(i)(I)) is amended--
                (i) by striking ``projects under section 18(c) of the 
            National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(c))'' and 
            inserting ``projects under section 17B of the National 
            School Lunch Act''; and
                (ii) by striking ``each of fiscal years 1993 and 1994'' 
            each place it appears and inserting ``fiscal year 1995 and 
            each subsequent fiscal year''.
    (b) Demonstration Program for the Prevention of Boarder Babies.--
Section 18 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(c)) (as 
amended by subsection (a)(2)(A)) is further amended by inserting after 
subsection (b) the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) Using the funds provided under paragraph (7), the 
Secretary shall conduct at least 1 demonstration project through a 
participating entity during each of fiscal years 1995 through 1998 that 
is designed to provide food and nutrition services throughout the year 
to--
        ``(A) homeless pregnant women; and
        ``(B) homeless mothers or guardians of infants, and the 
    children of the mothers and guardians.
    ``(2) To be eligible to obtain funds under this subsection, a 
homeless shelter, a transitional housing organization, or another 
entity that provides or will provide temporary housing for individuals 
described in paragraph (1) shall (in accordance with guidelines 
established by the Secretary)--
        ``(A) submit to the Secretary a proposal to provide food and 
    nutrition services, including a plan for coordinating the services 
    with services provided under the special supplemental nutrition 
    program for women, infants, and children authorized under section 
    17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786);
        ``(B) receive the approval of the Secretary for the proposal;
        ``(C) be located in an urban area that has--
            ``(i) a significant population of boarder babies;
            ``(ii) a very high rate of mortality for children under 1 
        year of age; or
            ``(iii) a significant population of homeless pregnant women 
        and homeless women with infants;
    as determined by the Secretary; and
        ``(D) be able to coordinate services provided under this 
    subsection with the services provided by the local government and 
    with other programs that may assist the participants receiving 
    services under this subsection.
    ``(3) Food and nutrition services funded under this subsection--
        ``(A) may include--
            ``(i) meals, supplements, and other food;
            ``(ii) nutrition education;
            ``(iii) nutrition assessments;
            ``(iv) referrals to--
                ``(I) the special supplemental nutrition program for 
            women, infants, and children authorized under section 17 of 
            such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786);
                ``(II) the medical assistance program established under 
            title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
            seq.);
                ``(III) the food stamp program established under 
            section 4 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2013); 
            and
                ``(IV) other public or private programs and services;
            ``(v) activities related to the services described in any 
        of clauses (i) through (iv); and
            ``(vi) administrative activities related to the services 
        described in any of clauses (i) through (v); and
        ``(B) may not include the construction, purchase, or rental of 
    real property.
    ``(4)(A) A participating entity shall--
        ``(i) use the same meal patterns, and receive reimbursement 
    payments for meals and supplements at the same rates, as apply to 
    child care centers participating in the child care food program 
    under section 17 for free meals and supplements;
        ``(ii) receive reimbursement payments for meals and supplements 
    served on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, at the request of the 
    entity; and
        ``(iii) maintain a policy of not providing services or 
    assistance to pregnant women, or homeless women with infants, who 
    use a controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the 
    Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)).
    ``(B) The Secretary may modify the meal pattern requirements to 
take into account the needs of infants, homeless pregnant women, 
homeless mothers, guardians of infants, or the children of the women, 
mothers, or guardians.
    ``(C) The Secretary shall provide funding to a participating entity 
for services described in paragraph (3) that are provided to 
individuals described in paragraph (1).
    ``(5) The Secretary shall impose such auditing and recordkeeping 
requirements as are necessary to monitor the use of Federal funds to 
carry out this subsection.
    ``(6) The Secretary shall notify the Committee on Education and 
Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry of the Senate on projects carried out under this subsection.
    ``(7)(A) Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the 
Secretary $400,000 for each of fiscal years 1995 through 1998 to carry 
out this subsection. The Secretary shall be entitled to receive the 
funds and shall accept the funds.
    ``(B) Any funds provided under subparagraph (A) to carry out 
projects under this subsection for a fiscal year that are not obligated 
in the fiscal year shall be used by the Secretary to carry out the 
homeless children nutrition program established under section 17B.
    ``(8) As used in this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `boarder baby' means an abandoned infant 
    described in section 103(1) of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act 
    of 1988 (Public Law 100-505; 42 U.S.C. 670 note).
        ``(B) The term `nutrition education' has the meaning provided 
    in section 17(b)(7) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
    1786(b)(7)).''.

SEC. 118. PILOT PROJECTS.

    (a) Commodity Letter of Credit (CLOC) Programs.--The first sentence 
of section 18(b)(1) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1769(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``, and ending September 30, 1994''.
    (b) Demonstration Program To Provide Meals and Supplements Outside 
of School Hours.--Section 18 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1)(A) The Secretary shall establish a demonstration program 
to provide grants to eligible institutions or schools to provide meals 
or supplements to adolescents participating in educational, 
recreational, or other programs and activities provided outside of 
school hours.
    ``(B) The amount of a grant under subparagraph (A) shall be equal 
to the amount necessary to provide meals or supplements described in 
such subparagraph and shall be determined in accordance with 
reimbursement payment rates for meals and supplements under the child 
and adult care food program under section 17.
    ``(2) The Secretary may not provide a grant under paragraph (1) to 
an eligible institution or school unless the institution or school 
submits to the Secretary an application containing such information as 
the Secretary may reasonably require.
    ``(3) The Secretary may not provide a grant under paragraph (1) to 
an eligible institution or school unless the institution or school 
agrees that the institution or school will--
        ``(A) use amounts from the grant to provide meals or 
    supplements under educational, recreational, or other programs and 
    activities for adolescents outside of school hours, and the 
    programs and activities are carried out in geographic areas in 
    which there are high rates of poverty, violence, or drug and 
    alcohol abuse among school-aged youths; and
        ``(B) use the same meal patterns as meal patterns required 
    under the child and adult care food program under section 17.
    ``(4) Determinations with regard to eligibility for free and 
reduced price meals and supplements provided under programs and 
activities under this subsection shall be made in accordance with the 
income eligibility guidelines for free and reduced price lunches under 
section 9.
    ``(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary 
shall expend to carry out this subsection, from amounts appropriated 
for purposes of carrying out section 17, $325,000 for fiscal year 1995, 
$475,000 for each of fiscal years 1996 and 1997, and $525,000 for 
fiscal year 1998. In addition to amounts described in the preceding 
sentence, the Secretary shall expend any additional amounts in any 
fiscal year as may be provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
    ``(B) The Secretary may expend less than the amount required under 
subparagraph (A) if there is an insufficient number of suitable 
applicants.
    ``(6) As used in this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `adolescent' means a child who has attained the 
    age of 13 but has not attained the age of 19.
        ``(B) The term `eligible institution or school' means--
            ``(i) an institution, as the term is defined in section 17; 
        or
            ``(ii) an elementary or secondary school participating in 
        the school lunch program under this Act.
        ``(C) The term `outside of school hours' means after-school 
    hours, weekends, or holidays during the regular school year.''.
    (c) Fortified Fluid Milk.--Section 18 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) 
(as amended by subsection (b)) is further amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out 
this subsection, the Secretary shall establish pilot projects in at 
least 25 school districts under which the milk offered by schools meets 
the fortification requirements of paragraph (3) for lowfat, skim, and 
other forms of fluid milk.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall make available to school districts 
information that compares the nutritional benefits of fluid milk that 
meets the fortification requirements of paragraph (3) and the 
nutritional benefits of other milk that is made available through the 
school lunch program established under this Act.
    ``(3) The fortification requirements for fluid milk for the pilot 
project referred to in paragraph (1) shall provide that--
        ``(A) all whole milk in final package form for beverage use 
    shall contain not less than--
            ``(i) 3.25 percent milk fat; and
            ``(ii) 8.7 percent milk solids not fat;
        ``(B) all lowfat milk in final package form for beverage use 
    shall contain not less than 10 percent milk solids not fat; and
        ``(C) all skim milk in final package form for beverage use 
    shall contain not less than 9 percent milk solids not fat.
    ``(4)(A) In selecting where to establish pilot projects under this 
subsection, the Secretary shall take into account, among other factors, 
the availability of fortified milk and the interest of the school 
district in being included in the pilot project.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall establish the pilot projects in as many 
geographic areas as practicable, except that none of the projects shall 
be established in school districts that use milk described in paragraph 
(3) or similar milk.
    ``(5) Not later than 2 years after the establishment of the first 
pilot project under this subsection, the Secretary shall report to the 
Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on--
        ``(A) the acceptability of fortified whole, lowfat, and skim 
    milk products to participating children;
        ``(B) the impact of offering the milk on milk consumption;
        ``(C) the views of the school food service authorities on the 
    pilot projects; and
        ``(D) any increases or reductions in costs attributed to the 
    pilot projects.
    ``(6) The Secretary shall--
        ``(A) obtain copies of any research studies or papers that 
    discuss the impact of the fortification of milk pursuant to 
    standards established by the States; and
        ``(B) on request, make available to State agencies and the 
    public--
            ``(i) the information obtained under subparagraph (A); and
            ``(ii) information about where to obtain milk described in 
        paragraph (3).
    ``(7)(A) Each pilot project established under this subsection shall 
terminate on the last day of the third year after the establishment of 
the pilot project.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall advise representatives of each district 
participating in a pilot project that the district may continue to 
offer the fortified forms of milk described in paragraph (3) after the 
project terminates.''.
    (d) Increased Choices of Fruits, Vegetables, Legumes, Cereals, and 
Grain-Based Products.--Section 18 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) (as 
amended by subsection (c)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(g)(1) The Secretary is authorized to establish a pilot project 
to assist schools participating in the school lunch program established 
under this Act, and the school breakfast program established under 
section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), to offer 
participating students additional choices of fruits, vegetables, 
legumes, cereals, and grain-based products (including, subject to 
paragraph (6), organically produced agricultural commodities and 
products) (collectively referred to in this subsection as `qualified 
products').
    ``(2) The Secretary shall establish procedures under which schools 
may apply to participate in the pilot project. To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall select qualified schools that apply 
from each State.
    ``(3) The Secretary may provide a priority for receiving funds 
under this subsection to--
        ``(A) schools that are located in low-income areas (as defined 
    by the Secretary); and
        ``(B) schools that rarely offer 3 or more choices of qualified 
    products per meal.
    ``(4) On request, the Secretary shall provide information to the 
Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on the impact of the pilot 
project on participating schools, including--
        ``(A) the extent to which participating children increased 
    consumption of qualified products;
        ``(B) the extent to which increased consumption of qualified 
    products offered under the pilot project has contributed to a 
    reduction in fat intake in the school breakfast and school lunch 
    programs;
        ``(C) the desirability of requiring that--
            ``(i) each school participating in the school breakfast 
        program increase the number of choices of qualified products 
        offered per meal to at least 2 choices;
            ``(ii) each school participating in the school lunch 
        program increase the number of choices of qualified products 
        offered per meal; and
            ``(iii) the Secretary provide additional Federal 
        reimbursements to assist schools in complying with clauses (i) 
        and (ii);
        ``(D) the views of school food service authorities on the pilot 
    project; and
        ``(E) any increase or reduction in costs to the schools in 
    offering the additional qualified products.
    ``(5) Subject to the availability of funds appropriated to carry 
out this subsection, the Secretary shall use not more than $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 1995 through 1997 to carry out this 
subsection.
    ``(6) For purposes of this subsection, qualified products shall 
include organically produced agricultural commodities and products 
beginning on the date the Secretary establishes an organic 
certification program for producers and handlers of agricultural 
products in accordance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 6501 et seq.).''.
    (e) Increased Choices of Lowfat Dairy Products and Lean Meat and 
Poultry Products.--Section 18 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) (as amended 
by subsection (d)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h)(1) The Secretary is authorized to establish a pilot project 
to assist schools participating in the school lunch program established 
under this Act, and the school breakfast program established under 
section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773), to offer 
participating students additional choices of lowfat dairy products 
(including lactose-free dairy products) and lean meat and poultry 
products (including, subject to paragraph (6), organically produced 
agricultural commodities and products) (collectively referred to in 
this subsection as `qualified products').
    ``(2) The Secretary shall establish procedures under which schools 
may apply to participate in the pilot project. To the maximum extent 
practicable, the Secretary shall select qualified schools that apply 
from each State.
    ``(3) The Secretary may provide a priority for receiving funds 
under this subsection to--
        ``(A) schools that are located in low-income areas (as defined 
    by the Secretary); and
        ``(B) schools that rarely offer 3 or more choices of qualified 
    products per meal.
    ``(4) On request, the Secretary shall provide information to the 
Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on the impact of the pilot 
project on participating schools, including--
        ``(A) the extent to which participating children increased 
    consumption of qualified products;
        ``(B) the extent to which increased consumption of qualified 
    products offered under the pilot project has contributed to a 
    reduction in fat intake in the school breakfast and school lunch 
    programs;
        ``(C) the desirability of requiring that--
            ``(i) each school participating in the school breakfast 
        program increase the number of choices of qualified products 
        offered per meal to at least 2 choices;
            ``(ii) each school participating in the school lunch 
        program increase the number of choices of qualified products 
        offered per meal; and
            ``(iii) the Secretary provide additional Federal 
        reimbursements to assist schools in complying with clauses (i) 
        and (ii);
        ``(D) the views of the school food service authorities on the 
    pilot project; and
        ``(E) any increase or reduction in costs to the schools in 
    offering the additional qualified products.
    ``(5) Subject to the availability of funds appropriated to carry 
out this subsection, the Secretary shall use not more than $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 1995 through 1997 to carry out this 
subsection.
    ``(6) For purposes of this subsection, qualified products shall 
include organically produced agricultural commodities and products 
beginning on the date the Secretary establishes an organic 
certification program for producers and handlers of agricultural 
products in accordance with the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 
U.S.C. 6501 et seq.).''.
    (f) Reduced Paperwork and Application Requirements and Increased 
Participation Pilots.--Section 18 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769) (as 
amended by subsection (e)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(i)(1) Subject to the availability of advance appropriations 
under paragraph (8), the Secretary shall make grants to a limited 
number of schools to conduct pilot projects in 2 or more States 
approved by the Secretary to--
        ``(A) reduce paperwork;
        ``(B) reduce application and meal counting requirements; and
        ``(C) make changes that will increase participation in the 
    school lunch and school breakfast programs.
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary may 
waive the requirements of this Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) relating to counting of meals, applications 
for eligibility, and related requirements that would preclude the 
Secretary from making a grant to conduct a pilot project under 
paragraph (1).
    ``(B) The Secretary may not waive a requirement under subparagraph 
(A) if the waiver would prevent a program participant, a potential 
program recipient, or a school from receiving all of the benefits and 
protections of this Act, the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, or a Federal 
statute or regulation that protects an individual constitutional right 
or a statutory civil right.
    ``(C) No child otherwise eligible for free or reduced price meals 
under section 9 or under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1773) shall be required to pay more under a program carried 
out under this subsection for such a meal than the child would 
otherwise pay under section 9 or under section 4 of the Child Nutrition 
Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), respectively.
    ``(3) To be eligible to receive a grant to conduct a pilot project 
under this subsection, a school shall--
        ``(A) submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in 
    such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary 
    may reasonably require, including, at a minimum, information--
            ``(i) demonstrating that the program carried out under the 
        project differs from programs carried out under subparagraph 
        (C), (D), or (E) of section 11(a)(1);
            ``(ii) demonstrating that at least 40 percent of the 
        students participating in the school lunch program at the 
        school are eligible for free or reduced price meals;
            ``(iii) demonstrating that the school operates both a 
        school lunch program and a school breakfast program;
            ``(iv) describing the funding, if any that the school will 
        receive from non-Federal sources to carry out the pilot 
        project;
            ``(v) describing and justifying the additional amount, over 
        the most recent prior year reimbursement amount received under 
        the school lunch program and the school breakfast program 
        (adjusted for inflation and fluctuations in enrollment), that 
        the school needs from the Federal government to conduct the 
        pilot; and
            ``(vi) describing the policy of the school on a la carte 
        and competitive foods;
        ``(B) not have a history of violations of this Act or the Child 
    Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.); and
        ``(C) meet any other requirement that the Secretary may 
    reasonably require.
    ``(4) To the extent practicable, the Secretary shall select schools 
to participate in the pilot program under this subsection in a manner 
that will provide for an equitable distribution among the following 
types of schools:
        ``(A) Urban and rural schools.
        ``(B) Elementary, middle, and high schools.
        ``(C) Schools of varying income levels.
    ``(5)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a school 
conducting a pilot project under this subsection shall receive 
commodities in an amount equal to the amount the school received in the 
prior year under the school lunch program under this Act and under the 
school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
1966, adjusted for inflation and fluctuations in enrollment.
    ``(B) Commodities required for the pilot project in excess of the 
amount of commodities received by the school in the prior year under 
the school lunch program and the school breakfast program may be funded 
from amounts appropriated to carry out this section.
    ``(6)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a school 
conducting a pilot project under this subsection shall receive a total 
Federal reimbursement under the school lunch program and school 
breakfast program in an amount equal to the total Federal reimbursement 
for the school in the prior year under each such program (adjusted for 
inflation and fluctuations in enrollment).
    ``(B) Funds required for the pilot project in excess of the level 
of reimbursement received by the school in the prior year (adjusted for 
inflation and fluctuations in enrollment) may be taken from any non-
Federal source or from amounts appropriated to carry out this 
subsection. If no appropriations are made for the pilot projects, 
schools may not conduct the pilot projects.
    ``(7)(A) The Secretary shall require each school conducting a pilot 
project under this subsection to submit to the Secretary documentation 
sufficient for the Secretary, to the extent practicable, to--
        ``(i) determine the effect that participation by schools in the 
    pilot projects has on the rate of student participation in the 
    school lunch program and the school breakfast program, in total and 
    by various income groups;
        ``(ii) compare the quality of meals served under the pilot 
    project to the quality of meals served under the school lunch 
    program and the school breakfast program during the school year 
    immediately preceding participation in the pilot project;
        ``(iii) summarize the views of students, parents, and 
    administrators with respect to the pilot project;
        ``(iv) compare the amount of administrative costs under the 
    pilot project to the amount of administrative costs under the 
    school lunch program and the school breakfast program during the 
    school year immediately preceding participation in the pilot 
    project;
        ``(v) determine the reduction in paperwork under the pilot 
    project from the amount of paperwork under the school lunch and 
    school breakfast programs at the school; and
        ``(vi) determine the effect of participation in the pilot 
    project on sales of, and school policy regarding, a la carte and 
    competitive foods.
    ``(B) Not later than January 31, 1998, the Secretary shall submit 
to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate 
a report containing--
        ``(i) a description of the pilot projects approved by the 
    Secretary under this subsection;
        ``(ii) a compilation of the information received by the 
    Secretary under paragraph (1) as of this date from each school 
    conducting a pilot project under this subsection; and
        ``(iii) an evaluation of the program by the Secretary.
    ``(8) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
subsection $9,000,000 for each fiscal year during the period beginning 
October 1, 1995, and ending July 31, 1998.''.

SEC. 119. REDUCTION OF PAPERWORK.

    Section 19(a) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769a(a)) 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and other agencies'' and inserting ``other 
    agencies''; and
        (2) by inserting ``, and families of children participating in 
    the programs,'' after ``assisted under such Acts''.

SEC. 120. FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE.

    (a) Required Activities.--Section 21(c)(2) of the National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769b-1(c)(2)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (viii);
            (B) by redesignating clause (ix) as clause (x); and
            (C) by inserting after clause (viii) the following new 
        clause:
                ``(ix) culinary skills; and'';
        (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D);
        (3) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(F) training food service personnel to comply with the 
        nutrition guidance and objectives of section 24 through a 
        national network of instructors or other means;
            ``(G) preparing informational materials, such as video 
        instruction tapes and menu planners, to promote healthier food 
        preparation; and
            ``(H) assisting State educational agencies in providing 
        additional nutrition and health instructions and instructors, 
        including training personnel to comply with the nutrition 
        guidance and objectives of section 24.''.
    (b) Use of Food Service Management Institute for Dietary and 
Nutrition Activities.--Section 21(d) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1769b-1(d)) 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(d) Coordination.--The'' and inserting the 
    following:
    ``(d) Coordination.--
        ``(1) In general.--The''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Use of institute for dietary and nutrition activities.--
    The Secretary shall use any food service management institute 
    established under subsection (a)(2) to assist in carrying out 
    dietary and nutrition activities of the Secretary.''.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 21 of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 1769b-1) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``from'' and inserting 
    ``subject to the availability of, and from,''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        ``(1) Training activities and technical assistance.--There are 
    authorized to be appropriated to carry out subsection (a)(1) 
    $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1990, $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1991, 
    and $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1992 through 1998.
        ``(2) Food service management institute.--
            ``(A) Funding.--In addition to any amounts otherwise made 
        available for fiscal year 1995, out of any moneys in the 
        Treasury not otherwise appropriated, the Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall provide to the Secretary $147,000 for fiscal 
        year 1995, and $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1996 and each 
        subsequent fiscal year, to carry out subsection (a)(2). The 
        Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and shall 
        accept the funds.
            ``(B) Additional funding.--In addition to amounts made 
        available under subparagraph (A), there are authorized to be 
        appropriated to carry out subsection (a)(2) such sums as are 
        necessary for fiscal year 1995 and each subsequent fiscal year. 
        The Secretary shall carry out activities under subsection 
        (a)(2), in addition to the activities funded under subparagraph 
        (A), to the extent provided for, and in such amounts as are 
        provided for, in advance in appropriations Acts.
            ``(C) Funding for education, training, or applied research 
        or studies.--In addition to amounts made available under 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), from amounts otherwise appropriated 
        to the Secretary in discretionary appropriations, the Secretary 
        may provide funds to any food service management institute 
        established under subsection (a)(2) for projects specified by 
        the Secretary that will contribute to implementing dietary or 
        nutrition initiatives. Any additional funding under this 
        subparagraph shall be provided noncompetitively in a separate 
        cooperative agreement.''.

SEC. 121. COMPLIANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY.

    Section 22(d) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769c(d)) 
is amended by striking ``1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994'' and 
inserting ``1994 through 1996''.

SEC. 122. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE RELATING TO 
              NONPROCUREMENT DEBARMENT UNDER CERTAIN CHILD NUTRITION 
              PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et 
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 25. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY RELATING TO NONPROCUREMENT 
              DEBARMENT.

    ``(a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to promote the 
prevention and deterrence of instances of fraud, bid rigging, and other 
anticompetitive activities encountered in the procurement of products 
for child nutrition programs by--
        ``(1) establishing guidelines and a timetable for the Secretary 
    to initiate debarment proceedings, as well as establishing 
    mandatory debarment periods; and
        ``(2) providing training, technical advice, and guidance in 
    identifying and preventing the activities.
    ``(b) Definitions.--As used in this section:
        ``(1) Child nutrition program.--The term `child nutrition 
    program' means--
            ``(A) the school lunch program established under this Act;
            ``(B) the summer food service program for children 
        established under section 13;
            ``(C) the child and adult care food program established 
        under section 17;
            ``(D) the homeless children nutrition program established 
        under section 17B;
            ``(E) the special milk program established under section 3 
        of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1772);
            ``(F) the school breakfast program established under 
        section 4 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1773); and
            ``(G) the special supplemental nutrition program for women, 
        infants, and children authorized under section 17 of such Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1786).
        ``(2) Contractor.--The term `contractor' means a person that 
    contracts with a State, an agency of a State, or a local agency to 
    provide goods or services in relation to the participation of a 
    local agency in a child nutrition program.
        ``(3) Local agency.--The term `local agency' means a school, 
    school food authority, child care center, sponsoring organization, 
    or other entity authorized to operate a child nutrition program at 
    the local level.
        ``(4) Nonprocurement debarment.--The term `nonprocurement 
    debarment' means an action to bar a person from programs and 
    activities involving Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance, 
    but not including Federal procurement programs and activities.
        ``(5) Person.--The term `person' means any individual, 
    corporation, partnership, association, cooperative, or other legal 
    entity, however organized.
    ``(c) Assistance To Identify and Prevent Fraud and Anticompetitive 
Activities.--The Secretary shall--
        ``(1) in cooperation with any other appropriate individual, 
    organization, or agency, provide advice, training, technical 
    assistance, and guidance (which may include awareness training, 
    training films, and troubleshooting advice) to representatives of 
    States and local agencies regarding means of identifying and 
    preventing fraud and anticompetitive activities relating to the 
    provision of goods or services in conjunction with the 
    participation of a local agency in a child nutrition program; and
        ``(2) provide information to, and fully cooperate with, the 
    Attorney General and State attorneys general regarding 
    investigations of fraud and anticompetitive activities relating to 
    the provision of goods or services in conjunction with the 
    participation of a local agency in a child nutrition program.
    ``(d) Nonprocurement Debarment.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3) and 
    subsection (e), not later than 180 days after notification of the 
    occurrence of a cause for debarment described in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary shall initiate nonprocurement debarment proceedings 
    against the contractor who has committed the cause for debarment.
        ``(2) Causes for debarment.--Actions requiring initiation of 
    nonprocurement debarment pursuant to paragraph (1) shall include a 
    situation in which a contractor is found guilty in any criminal 
    proceeding, or found liable in any civil or administrative 
    proceeding, in connection with the supplying, providing, or selling 
    of goods or services to any local agency in connection with a child 
    nutrition program, of--
            ``(A) an anticompetitive activity, including bid-rigging, 
        price-fixing, the allocation of customers between competitors, 
        or other violation of Federal or State antitrust laws;
            ``(B) fraud, bribery, theft, forgery, or embezzlement;
            ``(C) knowingly receiving stolen property;
            ``(D) making a false claim or statement; or
            ``(E) any other obstruction of justice.
        ``(3) Exception.--If the Secretary determines that a decision 
    on initiating nonprocurement debarment proceedings cannot be made 
    within 180 days after notification of the occurrence of a cause for 
    debarment described in paragraph (2) because of the need to further 
    investigate matters relating to the possible debarment, the 
    Secretary may have such additional time as the Secretary considers 
    necessary to make a decision, but not to exceed an additional 180 
    days.
        ``(4) Mandatory child nutrition program debarment periods.--
            ``(A) In general.--Subject to the other provisions of this 
        paragraph and notwithstanding any other provision of law except 
        subsection (e), if, after deciding to initiate nonprocurement 
        debarment proceedings pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        decides to debar a contractor, the debarment shall be for a 
        period of not less than 3 years.
            ``(B) Previous debarment.--If the contractor has been 
        previously debarred pursuant to nonprocurement debarment 
        proceedings initiated pursuant to paragraph (1), and the cause 
        for debarment is described in paragraph (2) based on activities 
        that occurred subsequent to the initial debarment, the 
        debarment shall be for a period of not less than 5 years.
            ``(C) Scope.--At a minimum, a debarment under this 
        subsection shall serve to bar the contractor for the specified 
        period from contracting to provide goods or services in 
        conjunction with the participation of a local agency in a child 
        nutrition program.
            ``(D) Reversal, reduction, or exception.--Nothing in this 
        section shall restrict the ability of the Secretary to--
                ``(i) reverse a debarment decision;
                ``(ii) reduce the period or scope of a debarment;
                ``(iii) grant an exception permitting a debarred 
            contractor to participate in a particular contract to 
            provide goods or services; or
                ``(iv) otherwise settle a debarment action at any time;
        in conjunction with the participation of a local agency in a 
        child nutrition program, if the Secretary determines there is 
        good cause for the action, after taking into account factors 
        set forth in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (e).
        ``(5) Information.--On request, the Secretary shall present to 
    the Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on 
    Agriculture, of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate information 
    regarding the decisions required by this subsection.
        ``(6) Relationship to other authorities.--A debarment imposed 
    under this section shall not reduce or diminish the authority of a 
    Federal, State, or local government agency or court to penalize, 
    imprison, fine, suspend, debar, or take other adverse action 
    against a person in a civil, criminal, or administrative 
    proceeding.
        ``(7) Regulations.--The Secretary shall issue such regulations 
    as are necessary to carry out this subsection.
    ``(e) Mandatory Debarment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this section, the Secretary shall initiate nonprocurement debarment 
proceedings against the contractor (including any cooperative) who has 
committed the cause for debarment (as determined under subsection 
(d)(2)), unless the action--
        ``(1) is likely to have a significant adverse effect on 
    competition or prices in the relevant market or nationally;
        ``(2) will interfere with the ability of a local agency to 
    procure a needed product for a child nutrition program;
        ``(3) is unfair to a person, subsidiary corporation, affiliate, 
    parent company, or local division of a corporation that is not 
    involved in the improper activity that would otherwise result in 
    the debarment;
        ``(4) is likely to have significant adverse economic impacts on 
    the local economy in a manner that is unfair to innocent parties;
        ``(5) is not justified in light of the penalties already 
    imposed on the contractor for violations relevant to the proposed 
    debarment, including any suspension or debarment arising out of the 
    same matter that is imposed by any Federal or State agency; or
        ``(6) is not in the public interest, or otherwise is not in the 
    interests of justice, as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(f) Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies.--Prior to seeking 
judicial review in a court of competent jurisdiction, a contractor 
against whom a nonprocurement debarment proceeding has been initiated 
shall--
        ``(1) exhaust all administrative procedures prescribed by the 
    Secretary; and
        ``(2) receive notice of the final determination of the 
    Secretary.
    ``(g) Information Relating to Prevention and Control of 
Anticompetitive Activities.--On request, the Secretary shall present to 
the Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate information regarding the 
activities of the Secretary relating to anticompetitive activities, 
fraud, nonprocurement debarment, and any waiver granted by the 
Secretary under this section.''.
    (b) Applicability.--Section 25 of the National School Lunch Act (as 
added by subsection (a)) shall not apply to a cause for debarment as 
described in section 25(d)(2) of such Act that is based on an activity 
that took place prior to the effective date of section 25 of such Act.
    (c) No Reduction in Authority To Debar or Suspend a Person From 
Federal Financial and Nonfinancial Assistance and Benefits.--The 
authority of the Secretary of Agriculture that exists on the day before 
the date of enactment of this Act to debar or suspend a person from 
Federal financial and nonfinancial assistance and benefits under 
Federal programs and activities shall not be diminished or reduced by 
subsection (a) or the amendment made by subsection (a).

SEC. 123. INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE.

    The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) (as amended 
by section 122) is further amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:

``SEC. 26. INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall enter into a contract with a 
nongovernmental organization described in subsection (b) to establish 
and maintain a clearinghouse to provide information to nongovernmental 
groups located throughout the United States that assist low-income 
individuals or communities regarding food assistance, self-help 
activities to aid individuals in becoming self-reliant, and other 
activities that empower low-income individuals or communities to 
improve the lives of low-income individuals and reduce reliance on 
Federal, State, or local governmental agencies for food or other 
assistance.
    ``(b) Nongovernmental Organization.--The nongovernmental 
organization referred to in subsection (a) shall be selected on a 
competitive basis and shall--
        ``(1) be experienced in the gathering of first-hand information 
    in all the States through onsite visits to grassroots organizations 
    in each State that fight hunger and poverty or that assist 
    individuals in becoming self-reliant;
        ``(2) be experienced in the establishment of a clearinghouse 
    similar to the clearinghouse described in subsection (a);
        ``(3) agree to contribute in-kind resources towards the 
    establishment and maintenance of the clearinghouse and agree to 
    provide clearinghouse information, free of charge, to the 
    Secretary, States, counties, cities, antihunger groups, and 
    grassroots organizations that assist individuals in becoming self-
    sufficient and self-reliant;
        ``(4) be sponsored by an organization, or be an organization, 
    that--
            ``(A) has helped combat hunger for at least 10 years;
            ``(B) is committed to reinvesting in the United States; and
            ``(C) is knowledgeable regarding Federal nutrition 
        programs;
        ``(5) be experienced in communicating the purpose of the 
    clearinghouse through the media, including the radio and print 
    media, and be able to provide access to the clearinghouse 
    information through computer or telecommunications technology, as 
    well as through the mails; and
        ``(6) be able to provide examples, advice, and guidance to 
    States, counties, cities, communities, antihunger groups, and local 
    organizations regarding means of assisting individuals and 
    communities to reduce reliance on government programs, reduce 
    hunger, improve nutrition, and otherwise assist low-income 
    individuals and communities become more self-sufficient.
    ``(c) Audits.--The Secretary shall establish fair and reasonable 
auditing procedures regarding the expenditures of funds to carry out 
this section.
    ``(d) Funding.--Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to the Secretary 
to provide to the organization selected under this section, to 
establish and maintain the information clearinghouse, $200,000 for each 
of fiscal years 1995 and 1996, $150,000 for fiscal year 1997, and 
$100,000 for fiscal year 1998. The Secretary shall be entitled to 
receive the funds and shall accept the funds.''.

SEC. 124. GUIDANCE AND GRANTS FOR ACCOMMODATING SPECIAL DIETARY NEEDS 
              OF CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES.

    The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) (as amended 
by section 123) is further amended by adding at the end the following 
new section:

``SEC. 27. GUIDANCE AND GRANTS FOR ACCOMMODATING SPECIAL DIETARY NEEDS 
              OF CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES.

    ``(a) Definitions.--As used in this section:
        ``(1) Children with disabilities.--The term `children with 
    disabilities' means individuals, each of whom is--
            ``(A) a participant in a covered program; and
            ``(B) an individual with a disability, as defined in 
        section 7(8) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 
        706(8)) for purposes of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act 
        of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794).
        ``(2) Covered program.--The term `covered program' means--
            ``(A) the school lunch program established under this Act;
            ``(B) the school breakfast program established under 
        section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773); 
        and
            ``(C) any other program established under this Act or the 
        Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.) that the 
        Secretary determines is appropriate.
        ``(3) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means a 
    school food service authority, or an institution or organization, 
    that participates in a covered program.
    ``(b) Guidance.--
        ``(1) Development.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
    Attorney General and the Secretary of Education, shall develop and 
    approve guidance for accommodating the medical and special dietary 
    needs of children with disabilities under covered programs in a 
    manner that is consistent with section 504 of the Rehabilitation 
    Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794).
        ``(2) Timing.--In the case of the school lunch program 
    established under this Act and the school breakfast program 
    established under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 
    U.S.C. 1773), the Secretary shall develop the guidance as required 
    by paragraph (1) not later than 150 days after the date of 
    enactment of this section.
        ``(3) Distribution.--Not later than 60 days after the date that 
    the development of the guidance relating to a covered program is 
    completed, the Secretary shall distribute the guidance to school 
    food service authorities, and institutions and organizations, 
    participating in the covered program.
        ``(4) Revision of guidance.--The Secretary, in consultation 
    with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Education, shall 
    periodically update and approve the guidances to reflect new 
    scientific information and comments and suggestions from persons 
    carrying out covered programs, recognized medical authorities, 
    parents, and other persons.
    ``(c) Grants.--
        ``(1) In general.--Subject to the availability of 
    appropriations provided in advance to carry out this subsection, 
    the Secretary shall make grants on a competitive basis to State 
    educational agencies for distribution to eligible entities to 
    assist the eligible entities with nonrecurring expenses incurred in 
    accommodating the medical and special dietary needs of children 
    with disabilities in a manner that is consistent with section 504 
    of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794).
        ``(2) Additional assistance.--Subject to paragraph (3)(A)(iii), 
    assistance received through grants made under this subsection shall 
    be in addition to any other assistance that State educational 
    agencies and eligible entities would otherwise receive.
        ``(3) Allocation by secretary.--
            ``(A) Preference.--In making grants under this subsection 
        for any fiscal year, the Secretary shall provide a preference 
        to State educational agencies that, individually--
                ``(i) submit to the Secretary a plan for accommodating 
            the needs described in paragraph (1), including a 
            description of the purpose of the project for which the 
            agency seeks such a grant, a budget for the project, and a 
            justification for the budget;
                ``(ii) provide to the Secretary data demonstrating that 
            the State served by the agency has a substantial percentage 
            of children with medical or special dietary needs, and 
            information explaining the basis for the data; or
                ``(iii) demonstrate to the satisfaction of the 
            Secretary that the activities supported through such a 
            grant will be coordinated with activities supported under 
            other Federal, State, and local programs, including--

                    ``(I) activities carried out under title XIX of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.);
                    ``(II) activities carried out under the Individuals 
                with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et 
                seq.); and
                    ``(III) activities carried out under section 19 of 
                the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1788) or by 
                the food service management institute established under 
                section 21.

            ``(B) Reallocation.--The Secretary shall act in a timely 
        manner to recover and reallocate to other States any amounts 
        provided to a State educational agency under this subsection 
        that are not used by the agency within a reasonable period (as 
        determined by the Secretary).
            ``(C) Applications.--The Secretary shall allow State 
        educational agencies to apply on an annual basis for assistance 
        under this subsection.
        ``(4) Allocation by state educational agencies.--In allocating 
    funds made available under this subsection within a State, the 
    State educational agency shall give a preference to eligible 
    entities that demonstrate the greatest ability to use the funds to 
    carry out the plan submitted by the State in accordance with 
    paragraph (3)(A)(i).
        ``(5) Maintenance of effort.--Expenditures of funds from State 
    and local sources to accommodate the needs described in paragraph 
    (1) shall not be diminished as a result of grants received under 
    this subsection.
        ``(6) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized to 
    be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1995 through 
    1998 to carry out this subsection.''.

SEC. 125. STUDY OF ADULTERATION OF JUICE PRODUCTS SOLD TO SCHOOL MEAL 
              PROGRAMS

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study of the costs and problems associated with the sale of 
adulterated fruit juice and juice products to the school lunch program 
under the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) and school 
breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1773), including a study of--
        (1) the nature and extent to which juice products have been and 
    are currently being adulterated;
        (2) the adequacy of current requirements and standards to 
    preclude manufacturers from processing adulterated products for 
    school meal programs;
        (3) the availability and effectiveness of various detection 
    methods and testing procedures used to identify adulterated juice 
    products;
        (4) the adequacy of existing enforcement mechanisms and efforts 
    to detect and prosecute manufacturers of adulterated juice 
    products;
        (5) the economic effect of the sale of adulterated juice 
    products on the school meal program and on manufacturers of the 
    products; and
        (6) the effect alternative mandatory inspection methods would 
    have on program costs and various purchasing options.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report on the study 
conducted under subsection (a) (including any related recommendations) 
to the Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on 
Agriculture, of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.

          TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO CHILD NUTRITION ACT OF 1966

SEC. 201. SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM.

    (a) Minimum Nutritional Requirements Measured by Weekly Average of 
Nutrient Content of School Breakfasts.--The first sentence of section 
4(e)(1) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773(e)(1)) is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
except that the minimum nutritional requirements shall be measured by 
not less than the weekly average of the nutrient content of school 
breakfasts''.
    (b) Technical Assistance for School Breakfast Program.--Section 
4(e)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1773(e)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) The Secretary shall provide through State educational 
agencies technical assistance and training, including technical 
assistance and training in the preparation of foods high in complex 
carbohydrates and lower-fat versions of foods commonly used in the 
school breakfast program established under this section, to schools 
participating in the school breakfast program to assist the schools in 
complying with the nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary 
pursuant to subparagraph (A) and in providing appropriate meals to 
children with medically certified special dietary needs. The Secretary 
shall provide through State educational agencies additional technical 
assistance to schools that are having difficulty maintaining compliance 
with the requirements.''.
    (c) Promotion of Program.--Section 4(f)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1773(f)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(B) In cooperation with State educational agencies, the Secretary 
shall promote the school breakfast program by--
        ``(i) marketing the program in a manner that expands 
    participation in the program by schools and students; and
        ``(ii) improving public education and outreach efforts in 
    language appropriate materials that enhance the public image of the 
    program.
    ``(C) As used in this paragraph, the term `language appropriate 
materials' means materials using a language other than the English 
language in a case in which the language is dominant for a large 
percentage of individuals participating in the program.''.
    (d) Startup and Expansion of School Breakfast Program and Summer 
Food Service Program for Children.--Subsection (g) of section 4 of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1773(g)) is amended to read as follows:


                      ``STARTUP AND EXPANSION COSTS

    ``(g)(1) Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the 
Secretary $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1991 through 1997, 
$6,000,000 for fiscal year 1998, and $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1999 
and each subsequent fiscal year to make payments under this subsection. 
The Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and shall accept 
the funds. The Secretary shall use the funds to make payments on a 
competitive basis and in the following order of priority (subject to 
other provisions of this subsection), to--
        ``(A) State educational agencies in a substantial number of 
    States for distribution to eligible schools to assist the schools 
    with nonrecurring expenses incurred in--
            ``(i) initiating a school breakfast program under this 
        section; or
            ``(ii) expanding a school breakfast program; and
        ``(B) a substantial number of States for distribution to 
    service institutions to assist the institutions with nonrecurring 
    expenses incurred in--
            ``(i) initiating a summer food service program for 
        children; or
            ``(ii) expanding a summer food service program for 
        children.
    ``(2) Payments received under this subsection shall be in addition 
to payments to which State agencies are entitled under subsection (b) 
and section 13 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761).
    ``(3) To be eligible to receive a payment under this subsection, a 
State educational agency shall submit to the Secretary a plan to 
initiate or expand school breakfast programs conducted in the State, 
including a description of the manner in which the agency will provide 
technical assistance and funding to schools in the State to initiate or 
expand the programs.
    ``(4) In making payments under this subsection for any fiscal year 
to initiate or expand school breakfast programs, the Secretary shall 
provide a preference to State educational agencies that--
        ``(A) have in effect a State law that requires the expansion of 
    the programs during the year;
        ``(B) have significant public or private resources that have 
    been assembled to carry out the expansion of the programs during 
    the year;
        ``(C) do not have a school breakfast program available to a 
    large number of low-income children in the State; or
        ``(D) serve an unmet need among low-income children, as 
    determined by the Secretary.
    ``(5) In making payments under this subsection for any fiscal year 
to initiate or expand summer food service programs for children, the 
Secretary shall provide a preference to States--
        ``(A)(i) in which the numbers of children participating in the 
    summer food service program for children represent the lowest 
    percentages of the number of children receiving free or reduced 
    price meals under the school lunch program established under the 
    National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.); or
        ``(ii) that do not have a summer food service program for 
    children available to a large number of low-income children in the 
    State; and
        ``(B) that submit to the Secretary a plan to expand the summer 
    food service programs for children conducted in the State, 
    including a description of--
            ``(i) the manner in which the State will provide technical 
        assistance and funding to service institutions in the State to 
        expand the programs; and
            ``(ii) significant public or private resources that have 
        been assembled to carry out the expansion of the programs 
        during the year.
    ``(6) The Secretary shall act in a timely manner to recover and 
reallocate to other States any amounts provided to a State educational 
agency or State under this subsection that are not used by the agency 
or State within a reasonable period (as determined by the Secretary).
    ``(7) The Secretary shall allow States to apply on an annual basis 
for assistance under this subsection.
    ``(8) Each State agency and State, in allocating funds within the 
State, shall give preference for assistance under this subsection to 
eligible schools and service institutions that demonstrate the greatest 
need for a school breakfast program or a summer food service program 
for children, respectively.
    ``(9) Expenditures of funds from State and local sources for the 
maintenance of the school breakfast program and the summer food service 
program for children shall not be diminished as a result of payments 
received under this subsection.
    ``(10) As used in this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `eligible school' means a school--
            ``(i) attended by children a significant percentage of whom 
        are members of low-income families;
            ``(ii)(I) as used with respect to a school breakfast 
        program, that agrees to operate the school breakfast program 
        established or expanded with the assistance provided under this 
        subsection for a period of not less than 3 years; and
            ``(II) as used with respect to a summer food service 
        program for children, that agrees to operate the summer food 
        service program for children established or expanded with the 
        assistance provided under this subsection for a period of not 
        less than 3 years.
        ``(B) The term `service institution' means an institution or 
    organization described in paragraph (1)(B) or (7) of section 13(a) 
    of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761(a)(1)(B) or (7)).
        ``(C) The term `summer food service program for children' means 
    a program authorized by section 13 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1761).''.

SEC. 202. STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.

    (a) Withholding.--Section 7(a) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1776(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(9)(A) If the Secretary determines that the administration of any 
program by a State under this Act (other than section 17) or under the 
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), or compliance with 
a regulation issued pursuant to either of such Acts, is seriously 
deficient, and the State fails to correct the deficiency within a 
specified period of time, the Secretary may withhold from the State 
some or all of the funds allocated to the State under this section or 
under section 13(k)(1) or 17 of the National School Lunch Act (42 
U.S.C. 1761(k)(1) or 1766).
    ``(B) On a subsequent determination by the Secretary that the 
administration of any program referred to in subparagraph (A), or 
compliance with the regulations issued to carry out the program, is no 
longer seriously deficient and is operated in an acceptable manner, the 
Secretary may allocate some or all of the funds withheld under such 
subparagraph.''.
    (b) Extension of Authority To Provide Funds for State 
Administrative Expenses.--Section 7(h) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1776(h)) 
is amended by striking ``1994'' and inserting ``1998''.
    (c) Prohibition of Funding Unless State Agrees To Participate in 
Certain Studies or Surveys.--Section 7 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1776) is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(h) The Secretary may not provide amounts under this section to a 
State for administrative costs incurred in any fiscal year unless the 
State agrees to participate in any study or survey of programs 
authorized under this Act or the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 
1751 et seq.) and conducted by the Secretary.''.

SEC. 203. COMPETITIVE FOODS OF MINIMAL NUTRITIONAL VALUE.

    Section 10 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1779) is 
amended--
        (1) by designating the first, second, and third sentences as 
    subsections (a), (b), and (c), respectively;
        (2) by indenting the margins of subsections (b) and (c) so as 
    to align with the margins of subsection (b) of section 11 of such 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1780); and
        (3) in subsection (b) (as designated by paragraph (1))--
            (A) by striking ``Such regulations'' and inserting ``(1) 
        The regulations''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) The Secretary shall develop and provide to State agencies, 
for distribution to private elementary schools and to public elementary 
schools through local educational agencies, model language that bans 
the sale of competitive foods of minimal nutritional value anywhere on 
elementary school grounds before the end of the last lunch period.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall provide to State agencies, for 
distribution to private secondary schools and to public secondary 
schools through local educational agencies, a copy of regulations (in 
existence on the effective date of this paragraph) concerning the sale 
of competitive foods of minimal nutritional value.
    ``(4) Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall not apply to a State that has in 
effect a ban on the sale of competitive foods of minimal nutritional 
value in schools in the State.''.

SEC. 204. SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Nutritional Risk.--Section 17(b)(8) of the Child 
Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b)(8)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E);
        (2) by inserting after ``health,'' at the end of subparagraph 
    (C) the following new subparagraph: ``(D) conditions that directly 
    affect the nutritional health of a person, such as alcoholism or 
    drug abuse,''; and
        (3) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), by 
    striking ``alcoholism and drug addiction, homelessness, and'' and 
    inserting ``homelessness and''.
    (b) Promotion of Program.--Section 17(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1786(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) The Secretary shall promote the special supplemental 
nutrition program by producing and distributing materials, including 
television and radio public service announcements in English and other 
appropriate languages, that inform potentially eligible individuals of 
the benefits and services under the program.''.
    (c) Eligibility for Certain Pregnant Women.--Section 17(d) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(d)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new 
    subparagraph:
    ``(C) In the case of a pregnant woman who is otherwise ineligible 
for participation in the program because the family of the woman is of 
insufficient size to meet the income eligibility standards of the 
program, the pregnant woman shall be considered to have satisfied the 
income eligibility standards if, by increasing the number of 
individuals in the family of the woman by 1 individual, the income 
eligibility standards would be met.''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) A State may consider pregnant women who meet the income 
eligibility standards to be presumptively eligible to participate in 
the program and may certify the women for participation immediately, 
without delaying certification until an evaluation is made concerning 
nutritional risk. A nutritional risk evaluation of such a woman shall 
be completed not later than 60 days after the woman is certified for 
participation. If it is subsequently determined that the woman does not 
meet nutritional risk criteria, the certification of the woman shall 
terminate on the date of the determination.''.
    (d) Technical Corrections.--Section 17(e) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1786(e)) is amended by redesignating paragraph (3) (as added by section 
123(a)(3)(D) of the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 1989 
(Public Law 101-147; 103 Stat. 895)) and paragraphs (4) and (5) as 
paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively.
    (e) Coordination of WIC and Medicaid Programs Using Coordinated 
Care Providers.--Section 17(f)(1)(C)(iii) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1786(f)(1)(C)(iii)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the 
end the following: ``, including medicaid programs that use coordinated 
care providers under a contract entered into under section 1903(m), or 
a waiver granted under section 1915(b), of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b(m) or 1396n(b)) (including coordination through the 
referral of potentially eligible women, infants, and children between 
the program authorized under this section and the medicaid program)''.
    (f) Priority Consideration for Certain Migrant Populations.--The 
first sentence of section 17(f)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(f)(3)) 
is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
``and shall ensure that local programs provide priority consideration 
to serving migrant participants who are residing in the State for a 
limited period of time''.
    (g) Income Eligibility Guidelines.--Paragraph (18) of section 17(f) 
of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(f)(18)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(18) Notwithstanding subsection (d)(2)(A)(i), not later than July 
1 of each year, a State agency may implement income eligibility 
guidelines under this section concurrently with the implementation of 
income eligibility guidelines under the medicaid program established 
under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).''.
    (h) Use of Recovered Program Funds in Year Collected.--Section 
17(f) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(f)) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
    ``(23) A State agency may use funds recovered as a result of 
violations in the food delivery system of the program in the year in 
which the funds are collected for the purpose of carrying out the 
program.''.
    (i) Coordination Initiative for WIC and Medicaid Programs.--Section 
17(f) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(f)) (as amended by subsection (h)) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(24) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall carry out an initiative to assure that, in a case in which a 
State medicaid program uses coordinated care providers under a contract 
entered into under section 1903(m), or a waiver granted under section 
1915(b), of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(m) or 1396n(b)), 
coordination between the program authorized by this section and the 
medicaid program is continued, including--
        ``(A) the referral of potentially eligible women, infants, and 
    children between the 2 programs; and
        ``(B) the timely provision of medical information related to 
    the program authorized by this section to agencies carrying out the 
    program.''.
    (j) Extension of Program.--Section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786) 
is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of subsection (g)(1), by striking 
    ``1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994'' and inserting ``1995 through 1998''; 
    and
        (2) in the first sentence of subsection (h)(2)(A), by striking 
    ``1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1994'' and inserting ``1995 through 
    1998''.
    (k) Use of Funds for Technical Assistance and Research Evaluation 
Projects.--Section 17(g)(5) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(g)(5)) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``and administration of pilot projects'' and 
    inserting ``administration of pilot projects''; and
        (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
    ``, and carrying out technical assistance and research evaluation 
    projects of the programs under this section''.
    (l) Breastfeeding Promotion and Support Activities.--Section 
17(h)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(3)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)(i)(II)--
            (A) by striking ``an amount'' and inserting ``except as 
        otherwise provided in subparagraphs (F) and (G), an amount''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``$8,000,000,'' and inserting ``the 
        national minimum breastfeeding promotion expenditure, as 
        described in subparagraph (E),''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(E) In the case of fiscal year 1996 (except as provided in 
subparagraph (G)) and each subsequent fiscal year, the national minimum 
breastfeeding promotion expenditure means an amount that is--
        ``(i) equal to $21 multiplied by the number of pregnant women 
    and breastfeeding women participating in the program nationwide, 
    based on the average number of pregnant women and breastfeeding 
    women so participating during the last 3 months for which the 
    Secretary has final data; and
        ``(ii) adjusted for inflation on October 1, 1996, and each 
    October 1 thereafter, in accordance with paragraph (1)(B)(ii).
    ``(F) In the case of fiscal year 1995, a State shall pay, in lieu 
of the expenditure required under subparagraph (A)(i)(II), an amount 
that is equal to the lesser of--
        ``(i) an amount that is more than the expenditure of the State 
    for fiscal year 1994 on the activities described in subparagraph 
    (A)(i); or
        ``(ii) an amount that is equal to $21 multiplied by the number 
    of pregnant women and breastfeeding women participating in the 
    program in the State, based on the average number of pregnant women 
    and breastfeeding women so participating during the last 3 months 
    for which the Secretary has final data.
    ``(G)(i) If the Secretary determines that a State agency is unable, 
for reasons the Secretary considers to be appropriate, to make the 
expenditure required under subparagraph (A)(i)(II) for fiscal year 
1996, the Secretary may permit the State to make the required level of 
expenditure not later than October 1, 1996.
    ``(ii) In the case of fiscal year 1996, if the Secretary makes a 
determination described in clause (i), a State shall pay, in lieu of 
the expenditure required under subparagraph (A)(i)(II), an amount that 
is equal to the lesser of--
        ``(I) an amount that is more than the expenditure of the State 
    for fiscal year 1995 on the activities described in subparagraph 
    (A)(i); and
        ``(II) an amount that is equal to $21 multiplied by the number 
    of pregnant women and breastfeeding women participating in the 
    program in the State, based on the average number of pregnant women 
    and breastfeeding women so participating during the last 3 months 
    for which the Secretary has final data.''.
    (m) Development of Standards for the Collection of Breastfeeding 
Data.--Section 17(h)(4) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(4)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (D) and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(E) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this 
    subparagraph, develop uniform requirements for the collection of 
    data regarding the incidence and duration of breastfeeding among 
    participants in the program and, on development of the uniform 
    requirements, require each State agency to report the data for 
    inclusion in the report to Congress described in subsection 
    (d)(4).''.
    (n) Submission of Information to Congress on Waivers With Respect 
to Procurement of Infant Formula.--Section 17(h)(8)(D)(iii) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)(D)(iii)) is amended by striking ``at 6-month 
intervals'' and inserting ``on a timely basis''.
    (o) Cost Containment.--
        (1) In general.--Section 17(h)(8)(G) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1786(h)(8)(G)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    clause:
    ``(ix) Not later than September 30, 1996, the Secretary shall offer 
to solicit bids on behalf of State agencies regarding cost containment 
contracts to be entered into by infant cereal manufacturers and State 
agencies. In carrying out this clause, the Secretary shall, to the 
maximum extent feasible, follow the procedures prescribed in this 
subparagraph regarding offers made by the Secretary with regard to 
soliciting bids regarding infant formula cost containment contracts. 
The Secretary may carry out this clause without issuing regulations.''.
        (2) Repeal of termination of authority.--Section 209 of the WIC 
    Infant Formula Procurement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-512; 42 
    U.S.C. 1786 note) is repealed.
    (p) Prohibition on Interest Liability to Federal Government on 
Rebate Funds.--Section 17(h)(8) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(L) A State shall not incur any interest liability to the Federal 
Government on rebate funds for infant formula and other foods if all 
interest earned by the State on the funds is used for program 
purposes.''.
    (q) Use of Universal Product Codes.--Section 17(h)(8) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)) (as amended by subsection (p)) is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(M)(i) The Secretary shall establish pilot projects in at least 1 
State, with the consent of the State, to determine the feasibility and 
cost of requiring States to carry out a system for using universal 
product codes to assist retail food stores that are vendors under the 
program in providing the type of infant formula that the participants 
in the program are authorized to obtain. In carrying out the projects, 
the Secretary shall determine whether the system reduces the incidence 
of incorrect redemptions of low-iron formula or brands of infant 
formula not authorized to be redeemed through the program, or both.
    ``(ii) The Secretary shall provide a notification to the Committee 
on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate 
regarding whether the system is feasible, is cost-effective, reduces 
the incidence of incorrect redemptions described in clause (i), and 
results in any additional costs to States.
    ``(iii) The system shall not require a vendor under the program to 
obtain special equipment and shall not be applicable to a vendor that 
does not have equipment that can use universal product codes.''.
    (r) Use of Unspent Nutrition Services and Administration Funds.--
Section 17(h) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(10)(A) For each of fiscal years 1995 through 1998, the Secretary 
shall use for the purposes specified in subparagraph (B), $10,000,000 
or the amount of nutrition services and administration funds for the 
prior fiscal year that has not been obligated, whichever is less.
    ``(B) Funds under subparagraph (A) shall be used for--
        ``(i) development of infrastructure for the program under this 
    section, including management information systems;
        ``(ii) special State projects of regional or national 
    significance to improve the services of the program under this 
    section; and
        ``(iii) special breastfeeding support and promotion projects, 
    including projects to assess the effectiveness of particular 
    breastfeeding promotion strategies and to develop State or local 
    agency capacity or facilities to provide quality breastfeeding 
    services.''.
    (s) Spendback Funds.--Section 17(i)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1786(i)(3)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting ``(except as provided 
    in subparagraph (H))'' after ``1 percent''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(H) The Secretary may authorize a State agency to expend not more 
than 3 percent of the amount of funds allocated to a State under this 
section for supplemental foods for a fiscal year for expenses incurred 
under this section for supplemental foods during the preceding fiscal 
year, if the Secretary determines that there has been a significant 
reduction in infant formula cost containment savings provided to the 
State agency that would affect the ability of the State agency to at 
least maintain the level of participation by eligible participants 
served by the State agency.''.
    (t) Elimination of Duplicative Migrant Reports.--Section 17 of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1786) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)(4), by inserting after ``Congress'' the 
    following: ``and the National Advisory Council on Maternal, Infant, 
    and Fetal Nutrition established under subsection (k)''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (j).
    (u) Initiative To Provide Program Services at Community and Migrant 
Health Centers.--Section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786) (as amended by 
subsection (t)(2)) is further amended by inserting after subsection (i) 
the following new subsection:
    ``(j)(1) The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (referred to in this subsection as the `Secretaries') shall 
jointly establish and carry out an initiative for the purpose of 
providing both supplemental foods and nutrition education under the 
special supplemental nutrition program and health care services to low-
income pregnant, postpartum, and breastfeeding women, infants, and 
children at substantially more community health centers and migrant 
health centers.
    ``(2) The initiative shall also include--
        ``(A) activities to improve the coordination of the provision 
    of supplemental foods and nutrition education under the special 
    supplemental nutrition program and health care services at 
    facilities funded by the Indian Health Service; and
        ``(B) the development and implementation of strategies to 
    ensure that, to the maximum extent feasible, new community health 
    centers, migrant health centers, and other federally supported 
    health care facilities established in medically underserved areas 
    provide supplemental foods and nutrition education under the 
    special supplemental nutrition program.
    ``(3) The initiative may include--
        ``(A) outreach and technical assistance for State and local 
    agencies and the facilities described in paragraph (2)(A) and the 
    health centers and facilities described in paragraph (2)(B);
        ``(B) demonstration projects in selected State or local areas; 
    and
        ``(C) such other activities as the Secretaries find are 
    appropriate.
    ``(4)(A) Not later than April 1, 1995, the Secretaries shall 
provide to Congress a notification concerning the actions the 
Secretaries intend to take to carry out the initiative.
    ``(B) Not later than July 1, 1996, the Secretaries shall provide to 
Congress a notification concerning the actions the Secretaries are 
taking under the initiative or actions the Secretaries intend to take 
under the initiative as a result of their experience in implementing 
the initiative.
    ``(C) On completion of the initiative, the Secretaries shall 
provide to Congress a notification concerning an evaluation of the 
initiative by the Secretaries and a plan of the Secretaries to further 
the goals of the initiative.
    ``(5) As used in this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `community health center' has the meaning given 
    the term in section 330(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
    U.S.C. 254c(a)).
        ``(B) The term `migrant health center' has the meaning given 
    the term in section 329(a)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
    254b(a)(1)).''.
    (v) Expansion of Farmers' Market Nutrition Program.--
        (1) Matching requirement for indian state agencies.--Section 
    17(m)(3) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(3)) is amended by adding at 
    the end the following new sentence: ``The Secretary may negotiate 
    with an Indian State agency a lower percentage of matching funds 
    than is required under the preceding sentence, but not lower than 
    10 percent of the total cost of the program, if the Indian State 
    agency demonstrates to the Secretary financial hardship for the 
    affected Indian tribe, band, group, or council.''.
        (2) Expansion.--Section 17(m)(5)(F) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1786(m)(5)(F)) is amended--
            (A) in clause (i), by striking ``15 percent'' and inserting 
        ``17 percent'';
            (B) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following new 
        clause:
        ``(ii) During any fiscal year for which a State receives 
    assistance under this subsection, the Secretary shall permit the 
    State to use not more than 2 percent of total program funds for 
    market development or technical assistance to farmers' markets if 
    the Secretary determines that the State intends to promote the 
    development of farmers' markets in socially or economically 
    disadvantaged areas, or remote rural areas, where individuals 
    eligible for participation in the program have limited access to 
    locally grown fruits and vegetables.''; and
            (C) in clause (iii), strike ``for the administration of the 
        program''.
        (3) Continued funding for certain states under farmers' market 
    nutrition program.--Subparagraph (A) of section 17(m)(6) of such 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(6)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(A) The Secretary shall give the same preference for funding 
under this subsection to eligible States that participated in the 
program under this subsection in a prior fiscal year as to States that 
participated in the program in the most recent fiscal year. The 
Secretary shall inform each State of the award of funds as prescribed 
by subparagraph (G) by February 15 of each year.''.
        (4) Funding reduction floor.--Section 17(m)(6)(B)(ii) of such 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(6)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking 
    ``$50,000'' each place it appears and inserting ``$75,000''.
        (5) State plan submission date.--Section 17(m)(6)(D)(i) of such 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(6)(D)(i)) is amended by striking ``at such 
    time and in such manner as the Secretary may reasonably require'' 
    and inserting ``by November 15 of each year''.
        (6) Percentage of annual appropriations available to states 
    under farmers' market nutrition program.--Section 17(m)(6)(G) of 
    such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(6)(G)) is amended--
            (A) in the first sentence of clause (i), by striking ``45 
        to 55 percent'' and inserting ``75 percent''; and
            (B) in the first sentence of clause (ii), by striking ``45 
        to 55 percent'' and inserting ``25 percent''.
        (7) Data collection requirements.--Section 17(m)(8) of such Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(8)) is amended by striking subparagraphs (D) and 
    (E) and inserting the following new subparagraphs:
        ``(D) the change in consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables 
    by recipients, if the information is available;
        ``(E) the effects of the program on farmers' markets, if the 
    information is available; and''.
        (8) Extension of coupon program.--Section 17(m)(10)(A) of such 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(10)(A)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``$3,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, 
        $6,500,000 for fiscal year 1993, and''; and
            (B) by inserting before the period at the end ``, 
        $10,500,000 for fiscal year 1995, and such sums as may be 
        necessary for each of fiscal years 1996 through 1998''.
        (9) Elimination of funding carryover provision under farmers' 
    market nutrition program.--Section 17(m)(10)(B)(i) of such Act (42 
    U.S.C. 1786(m)(10)(B)(i)) is amended--
            (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``Except as provided in 
        subclause (II), each'' and inserting ``Each''; and
            (B) in subclause (II), by striking ``or may be retained'' 
        and all that follows and inserting a period.
        (10) Elimination of reallocation of unexpended funds with 
    respect to demonstration projects under farmers' market nutrition 
    program.--Section 17(m)(10)(B)(ii) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1786(m)(10)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking the second sentence.
        (11) Definition.--Section 17(m)(11)(D) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1786(m)(11)(D)) is amended by inserting before the period at the 
    end the following: ``and any other agency approved by the chief 
    executive officer of the State''.
        (12) Promotion by the secretary.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
    shall promote the use of farmers' markets by recipients of Federal 
    nutrition programs administered by the Secretary.
    (w) Change in Name of Program.--
        (1) In general.--Section 17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1786) is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking the section heading and inserting the 
        following new section heading:


    ``special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and 
                              children'';

            (B) in the first sentence of subsection (c)(1), by striking 
        ``special supplemental food program'' and inserting ``special 
        supplemental nutrition program'';
            (C) in the second sentence of subsection (k)(1), by 
        striking ``special supplemental food program'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``special supplemental nutrition 
        program''; and
            (D) in subsection (o)(1)(B), by striking ``special 
        supplemental food program'' and inserting ``special 
        supplemental nutrition program''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) The second sentence of section 9(c) of the Food Stamp 
        Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2018(c)) is amended by striking ``special 
        supplemental food program'' and inserting ``special 
        supplemental nutrition program''.
            (B) Section 685(b)(8) of the Individuals with Disabilities 
        Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1484a(b)(8)) is amended by striking 
        ``Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and 
        Children'' and inserting ``special supplemental nutrition 
        program for women, infants, and children''.
            (C) Section 3803(c)(2)(C)(x) of title 31, United States 
        Code, is amended by striking ``special supplemental food 
        program'' and inserting ``special supplemental nutrition 
        program''.
            (D) Section 399(b)(6) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 280c-6(b)(6)) is amended by striking ``special 
        supplemental food program'' and inserting ``special 
        supplemental nutrition program''.
            (E) Paragraphs (11)(C) and (53)(A) of section 1902(a) of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)) are each amended 
        by striking ``special supplemental food program'' and inserting 
        ``special supplemental nutrition program''.
            (F) Section 202(b) of the WIC Infant Formula Procurement 
        Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-512; 42 U.S.C. 1786 note) is 
        amended by striking ``special supplemental food program'' and 
        inserting ``special supplemental nutrition program''.
        (3) References.--Any reference to the special supplemental food 
    program established under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
    1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786) in any provision of law, regulation, 
    document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be 
    considered to be a reference to the special supplemental nutrition 
    program established under such section.

SEC. 205. NUTRITION EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM.

    (a) Name of Program.--Section 19 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1788) is amended by striking ``information and education'' 
each place it appears in subsections (b), (c), (d)(1), (f)(1)(G), and 
(j)(1) and inserting ``education and training''.
    (b) Nutrition Education Programs.--The second sentence of section 
19(c) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1788(c)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``school food service'' 
    and inserting ``child nutrition program'';
        (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C); and
        (3) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
    ``; and (E) providing information to parents and caregivers 
    regarding the nutritional value of food and the relationship 
    between food and health''.
    (c) Nutrition Education and Training.--Section 19(d) of such Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1788(d)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(C), by inserting before the period at the 
    end the following: ``, and the provision of nutrition education to 
    parents and caregivers'';
        (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (4), by striking 
    ``educational and school food service personnel'' and inserting 
    ``educational, school food service, child care, and summer food 
    service personnel''; and
        (3) in the first sentence of paragraph (5), by inserting after 
    ``schools'' the following: ``, and in child care institutions and 
    summer food service institutions,''.
    (d) Use of Funds.--Section 19(f)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1788(f)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(f)(1) The funds'' and inserting ``(f)(1)(A) 
    The funds'';
        (2) by striking ``for (A) employing'' and inserting ``for--
        ``(i) employing'';
        (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (I) as clauses 
    (ii) through (ix), respectively;
        (4) by indenting the margins of each of clauses (ii) through 
    (ix) (as redesignated by paragraph (3)) so as to align with the 
    margins of clause (i) (as amended by paragraph (2));
        (5) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (viii);
        (6) by redesignating clause (ix) as clause (xx);
        (7) by inserting after clause (viii) the following new clauses:
        ``(ix) providing funding for a nutrition component that can be 
    offered in consumer and homemaking education programs as well as in 
    the health education curriculum offered to children in kindergarten 
    through grade 12;
        ``(x) instructing teachers, school administrators, or other 
    school staff on how to promote better nutritional health and to 
    motivate children from a variety of linguistic and cultural 
    backgrounds to practice sound eating habits;
        ``(xi) developing means of providing nutrition education in 
    language appropriate materials to children and families of children 
    through after-school programs;
        ``(xii) training in relation to healthy and nutritious meals;
        ``(xiii) creating instructional programming, including language 
    appropriate materials and programming, for teachers, school food 
    service personnel, and parents on the relationships between 
    nutrition and health and the role of the Food Guide Pyramid 
    established by the Secretary;
        ``(xiv) funding aspects of the Strategic Plan for Nutrition and 
    Education issued by the Secretary;
        ``(xv) encouraging public service advertisements, including 
    language appropriate materials and advertisements, to promote 
    healthy eating habits for children;
        ``(xvi) coordinating and promoting nutrition education and 
    training activities in local school districts (incorporating, to 
    the maximum extent practicable, as a learning laboratory, child 
    nutrition programs);
        ``(xvii) contracting with public and private nonprofit 
    educational institutions for the conduct of nutrition education 
    instruction and programs relating to the purpose of this section;
        ``(xviii) increasing public awareness of the importance of 
    breakfasts for providing the energy necessary for the cognitive 
    development of school-age children;
        ``(xix) coordinating and promoting nutrition education and 
    training activities carried out under child nutrition programs, 
    including the summer food service program for children established 
    under section 13 of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1761) 
    and the child and adult care food program established under section 
    17 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1766); and''; and
        (8) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) As used in this paragraph, the term `language appropriate' 
used with respect to materials, programming, or advertisements means 
materials, programming, or advertisements, respectively, using a 
language other than the English language in a case in which the 
language is dominant for a large percentage of individuals 
participating in the program.''.
    (e) Administrative Purposes.--Section 19(f) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1788(f)) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
following new paragraph:
    ``(3) A State agency may use an amount equal to not more than 15 
percent of the funds made available through a grant under this section 
for expenditures for administrative purposes in connection with the 
program authorized under this section if the State makes available at 
least an equal amount for administrative or program purposes in 
connection with the program.''.
    (f) State Coordinators for Nutrition; State Plan.--Section 19(h) of 
such Act (42 U.S.C. 1788(h)) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (2), by inserting ``and 
    training'' after ``education''; and
        (2) in the third sentence of paragraph (3)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (D); and
            (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``; and (F) a comprehensive plan for providing 
        nutrition education during the first fiscal year beginning 
        after the submission of the plan and the succeeding 4 fiscal 
        years''.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 19(i)(2)(A) of such 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1788(i)(2)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(A) Out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, 
and in addition to any amounts otherwise made available for fiscal year 
1995, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the Secretary 
$1,000 for fiscal year 1995 and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1996 and 
each succeeding fiscal year for making grants under this section to 
each State for the conduct of nutrition education and training 
programs. The Secretary shall be entitled to receive the funds and 
shall accept the funds.''.
    (h) Availability of Funds.--Section 19(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1788(i)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(3) Funds made available to any State under this section shall 
remain available to the State for obligation in the fiscal year 
succeeding the fiscal year in which the funds were received by the 
State.''.

                  TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 301. CONSOLIDATION OF SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM AND SCHOOL BREAKFAST 
              PROGRAM INTO COMPREHENSIVE MEAL PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any provision of National School 
Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) or the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.), except as otherwise provided in this section, 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall, not later than 18 months after the 
date of enactment of this Act, develop and implement regulations to 
consolidate the school lunch program under the National School Lunch 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) and the school breakfast program under 
section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773) into a 
comprehensive meal program.
    (b) Requirements.--In establishing the comprehensive meal program 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall meet the following 
requirements:
        (1) The Secretary shall ensure that the program continues to 
    serve children who are eligible for free and reduced price meals. 
    The meals shall meet the nutritional requirements of section 
    9(a)(1) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(1)) and 
    section 4(e)(1) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
    1773(e)(1)).
        (2) The Secretary shall continue to make breakfast assistance 
    payments in accordance with section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 
    1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773) and food assistance payments in accordance 
    with the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.).
        (3) The Secretary may not consolidate any aspect of the school 
    lunch program or the school breakfast program with respect to any 
    matter described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (N) of section 
    12(l)(4) of the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760(l)(4)).
    (c) Plan and Recommendations.--
        (1) Plan for consolidation and simplification.--Not later than 
    180 days prior to implementing the regulations described in 
    subsection (a), the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the 
    Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the 
    Senate a plan for the consolidation and simplification of the 
    school lunch program and the school breakfast program.
        (2) Recommendations with respect to change in payment 
    amounts.--If the Secretary proposes to change the amount of the 
    breakfast assistance payment or the food assistance payment under 
    the comprehensive meal program, the Secretary shall not include the 
    change in the consolidation and shall prepare and submit to the 
    Committee on Education and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, 
    of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, 
    Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate recommendations for 
    legislation to effect the change.

SEC. 302. STUDY AND REPORT RELATING TO USE OF PRIVATE FOOD 
              ESTABLISHMENTS AND CATERERS UNDER SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM 
              AND SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM.

    (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States, in 
conjunction with the Director of the Office of Technology Assessment, 
shall conduct a study on the use of private food establishments and 
caterers by schools that participate in the school lunch program under 
the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) or the school 
breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
(42 U.S.C. 1773). In conducting the study, the Comptroller General of 
the United States shall--
        (1) examine the extent to which, manner in which, and terms 
    under which the private food establishments and caterers supply 
    meals and food to students and schools that participate in the 
    school lunch program or the school breakfast program;
        (2) determine the nutritional profile of all foods provided to 
    students during school hours;
        (3) evaluate the impact that the services provided by the 
    establishments and caterers have on local child nutrition programs 
    and the ability of the establishments and caterers to utilize the 
    commodities under section 14 of the National School Lunch Act (42 
    U.S.C. 1762a); and
        (4) examine the impact that private food establishments and 
    caterers have on--
            (A) student participation in the national school lunch 
        program;
            (B) school food service employment;
            (C) generation of revenues through school lunch sales and a 
        la carte sales of food in schools; and
            (D) the number of students leaving schools during lunch 
        periods.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 1, 1996, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Education 
and Labor, and the Committee on Agriculture, of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry of the Senate a report that contains the findings, 
determinations, and evaluations of the study conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a).

SEC. 303. AMENDMENT TO COMMODITY DISTRIBUTION REFORM ACT AND WIC 
              AMENDMENTS OF 1987.

    Section 3(h)(3) of the Commodity Distribution Reform Act and WIC 
Amendments of 1987 (Public Law 100-237; 7 U.S.C. 612c note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Hawaii,''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
    requirement established in paragraph (1) shall apply to recipient 
    agencies in Hawaii only with respect to the purchase of 
    pineapples.''.

SEC. 304. STUDY OF THE EFFECT OF COMBINING FEDERALLY DONATED AND 
              FEDERALLY INSPECTED MEAT OR POULTRY.

    (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the incidence and the effect of States restricting 
or prohibiting a legally contracted commercial entity from physically 
combining federally donated and inspected meat or poultry from another 
State.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 1, 1996, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Education 
and Labor and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
Forestry of the Senate a report that describes the findings, 
determinations, and evaluations of the study conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a).

                        TITLE IV--EFFECTIVE DATE

SEC. 401. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    Except as otherwise provided in this Act, this Act and the 
amendments made by this Act shall become effective on October 1, 1994.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.