[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1769 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1769
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act


 
         To make a technical amendment, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CDBG TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the city of Slidell, 
Louisiana may submit, not later than 10 days after the enactment of this 
Act, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall consider 
and accept, the final statement of community development objectives and 
projected use of funds required by section 104(a)(1) of the Housing and 
Community Development Act of 1974 in connection with a grant to the city 
of Slidell under title 1 of such Act for fiscal year 1994.

SEC. 2. INCREASE OF CDBG PUBLIC SERVICES CAP.

    (a) In General.--Section 105(a)(8) of the Housing and Community 
Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(8)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' after the penultimate comma; and
        (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: 
    ``, and except that of any amount of assistance under this title 
    (including program income) in fiscal year 1994 to the City of 
    Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, such city may use not more than 20 percent 
    in each such fiscal year for activities under this paragraph''.

SEC. 3. CONVERSION PROJECTS.

    (a) Section 23 Conversion.--
        (1) Authorization.--Notwithstanding contracts entered into 
    pursuant to section 14(b)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 
    1937, the Secretary is authorized to enter into obligations for 
    conversion of Leonard Terrace Apartments in Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
    from a leased housing contract under section 23 of such Act to a 
    project-based rental assistance contract under section 8 of such 
    Act.
        (2) Repayment required.--The authorization made in paragraph (1) 
    is conditioned on the repayment to the Secretary of all amounts 
    received by the public housing agency under the comprehensive 
    improvement assistance program under section 14 of the United States 
    Housing Act of 1937 for the Leonard Terrace Apartment project and 
    the amounts, as determined by the Secretary, received by the public 
    housing agency under the formula in section 14(k) of such Act by 
    reason of the project.

SEC. 4. EXCEPTION TO FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENT FOR NEWLY CONSRUCTED 
              MULTIFAMILY PROPERTY.

    In the case of any newly constucted multifamily property, as defined 
in section 31(c)(2)(A)(ii) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control 
Act of 1974, in the city of New York in the State of New York, the 
requirement contained in section 31(c)(2)(A)(i) of the Federal Fire 
Prevention and Control Act of 1974 with respect to an automatic 
sprinkler system shall be deemed to be met if such property meets an 
equivalent level of safety (as defined in section 31(a)(3) of such Act).







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.