[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2099 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2099

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To establish the Northern Great Plains Rural Development Commission, 
and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Northern Great Plains Rural 
Development Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) the rural economy of the Northern Great Plains is 
    undergoing a substantial and potentially threatening 
    transformation;
        (2) the rural Northern Great Plains suffers from substantial 
    measurable poverty, unemployment, outmigration, underemployment, 
    aging of the population, and low per capita income;
        (3) the Northern Great Plains is highly rural and has a highly 
    dispersed population, and contains many Native American 
    reservations;
        (4) many of the basic industries of the rural Northern Great 
    Plains in natural resources are under stress;
        (5) a concerted Federal, State, and local public and private 
    effort is needed if the rural Northern Great Plains is to share in 
    the general prosperity of the United States;
        (6) the creation of jobs and expansion of existing businesses, 
    including small businesses, offer the greatest hope for rural 
    economic growth and revitalization in the Northern Great Plains;
        (7) the availability of capital, technology, market 
    information, infrastructure development, educational opportunities, 
    health care, housing, recreational activities, and resource 
    development are essential to successful business development in the 
    rural Northern Great Plains;
        (8) the transportation needs of the rural Northern Great Plains 
    must be addressed through highway and bridge construction, air 
    service availability, and rail service and river transport 
    development;
        (9) because of the social, geographic, weather, historical, and 
    cultural ties of the rural Northern Great Plains as well as common 
    economic problems, planning for this unique region is desirable and 
    urgently needed; and
        (10) in the rural Northern Great Plains, the tourism industry 
    offers significant additional potential for supporting economic 
    development and job growth, fostered by the wise stewardship of 
    natural resources.

SEC. 3. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to establish the Northern Great Plains 
Rural Development Commission to study and make recommendations 
regarding the economic needs and economic development of the rural 
Northern Great Plains by seeking and encouraging the participation of 
interested citizens, public officials, groups, agencies, businesses, 
and other entities in developing a 10-year rural economic development 
plan for the Northern Great Plains.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
        (1) Chairperson.--The term ``chairperson'' means the 
    chairperson of the Commission.
        (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Northern 
    Great Plains Rural Development Commission.
        (3) Northern great plains.--The term ``Northern Great Plains'' 
    means the States of North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Iowa, and 
    Minnesota.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means a State in the Northern 
    Great Plains.

SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a Commission to be known as the ``Northern 
Great Plains Rural Development Commission''.

SEC. 6. MEMBERSHIP AND ORGANIZATION.

    (a) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 10 members, of 
whom--
        (1) 1 member shall be appointed by the Governor of each State; 
    and
        (2) 1 member shall be appointed from each of the States by the 
    Secretary of Agriculture.
    (b) Term.--Each member of the Commission shall serve for such term 
as the official who appoints the member determines is appropriate.
    (c) Quorum.--Five members of the Commission shall constitute a 
quorum, but the Commission may establish that a lesser number shall 
constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting hearings.
    (d) Meetings.--
        (1) First meetings.--Five or more members appointed under 
    subsection (a)(1) shall determine the date, time, and place of the 
    first meeting, and shall call the first meeting. At the first 
    meeting, the members of the Commission shall appoint a chairperson 
    from among the members appointed under subsection (a)(1). The first 
    meeting of the Commission shall be held not later than 45 days 
    after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Additional meetings.--The Commission shall conduct such 
    additional meetings as the Commission determines are appropriate.
    (e) Appointments.--Each appointment under this Act shall be made 
not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (f) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall not affect the 
powers of the Commission and shall be filled in the same manner in 
which the original appointment was made.
    (g) Headquarters.--The Commission shall establish the location for 
the headquarters of the Commission.

SEC. 7. DUTIES.

    (a) Plan.--The Commission shall identify and study the economic 
development, infrastructure, technology, telecommunications, capital, 
employment, transportation, business resource development, education, 
health care, housing, and recreation needs of the Northern Great Plains 
and develop a 10-year plan that makes recommendations and establishes 
priorities to address the needs.
    (b) Preparation of Plan.--In developing the plan, the Commission 
shall, with respect to the Northern Great Plains--
        (1) sponsor and conduct investigations, research studies, and 
    field hearings;
        (2) review and evaluate available research, studies, and 
    information on conditions in the areas referred to in subsection 
    (a);
        (3) study the economy, identifying strengths, weaknesses, 
    participation levels, opportunities, and methods of addressing 
    outmigration;
        (4) develop a profile of, and a description of resources 
    devoted to, economic development (including tourism), human 
    resources (including demographics, outmigration, poverty, Native 
    Americans, education, and training), infrastructure (including air, 
    water, highway, rail, and telecommunications), and natural 
    resources;
        (5) study and evaluate the economic development resources, 
    coordination, collaboration, and ``best practices'' of the Federal, 
    State, and local governments, nonprofit organizations, 
    universities, businesses, agricultural and natural resources 
    groups, foundations, cooperatives, and other organizations;
        (6) identify methods of facilitating the employment and 
    business startups of unemployed, underemployed, and low-income 
    individuals and households;
        (7) identify effective methods for promoting development on 
    Native American reservations;
        (8) study the availability of methods of delivering public, 
    private, and nonprofit capital and technical assistance for 
    business startups and expansions, including farming and ranching;
        (9) evaluate the availability of, need for, and strategies for 
    providing and maintaining, the infrastructure, including air, 
    water, highway, rail, and telecommunications;
        (10) study the structure and potential development of major 
    industries, including agriculture, timber, mining, tourism, and 
    manufacturing (including the use of advanced technologies and 
    processes and adding value to raw materials and component parts);
        (11) study the competence and availability of the labor force, 
    including the health, educational, training, housing, and economic 
    needs of the labor force;
        (12) develop an inventory of water, mineral, energy, timber, 
    agricultural, fishery, wildlife, and other natural resources;
        (13) assess the comparative cost of doing business;
        (14) assess the international trading levels, markets, and 
    practices, and potential opportunities;
        (15) assess the interconnection between metropolitan and rural 
    areas and identify methods through which the areas can collaborate;
        (16) assess methods by which small communities and regions are 
    collaborating or can collaborate in economic development 
    initiatives;
        (17) evaluate--
            (A) the distribution and impact of Federal spending, 
        including grant-in-aid programs, research, and Federal 
        procurement, and compare the level of spending in these 
        categories with spending in other regions of the country; and
            (B) the extent to which reliance on Federal, State, and 
        local government outlays for poverty programs can be reduced by 
        outlays targeted for economic development;
        (18) identify Federal, State, and local government programs, 
    policies, and regulations that enhance or obstruct the development 
    of businesses and well-paying jobs with long-term potential and 
    that effectively use the skills, education, and training of the 
    labor force;
        (19) evaluate the potential for States to jointly finance 
    projects and activities of regional benefit; and
        (20) analyze such other issues as the Commission determines are 
    relevant to future economic development.
    (c) Development of Plan.--In developing the plan, the Commission 
shall--
        (1) provide a forum for the consideration of the problems of 
    the rural Northern Great Plains and proposed solutions, and 
    establish and utilize citizens groups, special advisory councils, 
    public hearings, and conferences;
        (2) seek and encourage the participation of interested 
    citizens, public officials, groups, agencies, economic development 
    organizations, natural resource organizations, and other 
    organizations;
        (3) make the Commission accessible to the individuals, groups, 
    agencies, and organizations referred to in paragraph (2) by holding 
    at least 1 well publicized public hearing in each State; and
        (4) consult with--
            (A) Federal, State, and local government agencies, 
        including the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Education, 
        Labor, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban 
        Development, and Transportation, and the Small Business 
        Administration, bank regulatory agencies, and rural development 
        councils;
            (B) banks, insurance companies, venture capital companies, 
        and other for-profit financial institutions;
            (C) nonprofit and community-based development 
        organizations, revolving loan funds, and other organizations;
            (D) industry and sectoral organizations;
            (E) foundations and universities; and
            (F) other organizations involved in economic development 
        activities.

SEC. 8. COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS.

    (a) Members Appointed by Governors.--Each member of the Commission 
appointed by a Governor of a State may be compensated by the State that 
the member represents.
    (b) Members Appointed by the Secretary.--Each member appointed by 
the Secretary of Agriculture, who is not otherwise employed by the 
United States Government, shall receive compensation at a rate 
determined by the Secretary of not to exceed the daily equivalent of 
the lowest annual rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-15 of the 
General Schedule under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code, 
including traveltime, for each day the member is engaged in the actual 
performance of the duties of the Commission. A member of the Commission 
appointed by the Secretary who is an officer or employee of the United 
States Government shall serve without additional compensation.
    (c) Travel and Other Expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall 
be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, 
at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or 
regular place of business of the member in the performance of services 
for the Commission. Each member of the Commission shall also be 
reimbursed by the United States Government for other necessary expenses 
incurred by the member in the performance of the duties of the member.

SEC. 9. POWERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

    (a) Experts and Consultants.--The Commission may obtain the 
services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Financial and Administrative Services.--The Commission may 
enter into agreements with the Administrator of General Services for 
the procurement of necessary financial and administrative services, for 
which payment shall be made by reimbursement from funds of the 
Commission in such amounts as are agreed on by the chairperson and the 
Administrator of General Services.
    (c) Contracts.--Subject to subsection (d), the Commission may enter 
into contracts with Federal and State agencies and private firms, 
institutions, and agencies for the conduct of research and surveys, the 
preparation of reports, and other activities necessary to carry out the 
duties of the Commission.
    (d) Supplies, Services, Property, and Contracts.--The Commission 
may procure supplies, services, and property, and make contracts in any 
fiscal year, only to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in 
appropriation Acts.
    (e) Hearings.--The Commission or, on the authorization of the 
Commission, a member of the Commission may, for the purpose of carrying 
out this Act, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, 
and request the attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the 
production of such books, records, memoranda, papers, and documents as 
the Commission or the member considers appropriate.
    (f) Information.--The Commission may acquire directly from any 
executive department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, 
independent establishment, or instrumentality, information, 
suggestions, estimates, and statistics for the purpose of this Act. 
Each department, bureau, agency, board, commission, office, 
establishment, or instrumentality shall provide, to the extent 
permitted by law, the information, suggestions, estimates, and 
statistics directly to the Commission, upon request by the chairperson.
    (g) Personnel.--
        (1) In general.--Without regard to the provisions of title 5, 
    United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive 
    service, and without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
    chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General 
    Schedule pay rates, the chairperson of the Commission may appoint, 
    terminate, and fix the compensation of an Executive Director and 
    such additional personnel as the chairperson determines are 
    necessary to enable the Commission to carry out the duties of the 
    Commission.
        (2) Compensation.--The rate of compensation of the Executive 
    Director may not exceed a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the 
    annual rate of basic pay payable for level V of the Executive 
    Schedule under section 5316 of such title. The rate of compensation 
    of all other personnel may not exceed a rate equal to the daily 
    equivalent of the lowest annual rate of basic pay payable for grade 
    GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 5332 of such title.
    (h) Assistance From Other Agencies.--Upon request of the 
Commission, the head of any Federal agency may make any of the 
facilities and services of the agency available to the Commission or 
detail any of the personnel of the agency to the Commission, on a 
reimbursable basis, to assist the Commission in carrying out the duties 
of the Commission under this Act. If the head of an agency determines 
that the agency cannot make the facilities, services, or personnel 
available to the Commission, the head shall notify the chairperson in 
writing.
    (i) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States 
mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
departments and agencies of the United States.

SEC. 10. REPORTS.

    (a) Interim Report.--Before the end of the 270-day period beginning 
on the date of the first meeting of the Commission under section 
6(d)(1), the Commission shall submit a report to the Secretary of 
Agriculture, the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Committee on 
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives, the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
Representatives, the President, and the Governor of each State, 
describing the findings and activities of the Commission and the 
further activities necessary to carry out the duties of the Commission.
    (b) Final Report.--
        (1) In general.--Before the end of the 18-month period 
    beginning on the date of the first meeting of the Commission under 
    section 6(d)(1), the Commission shall submit to the Secretary of 
    Agriculture, the President pro tempore of the Senate, the Committee 
    on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, the Speaker 
    of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Agriculture of 
    the House of Representatives, the President, and the Governor of 
    each State, a report describing the findings and activities of the 
    Commission and recommendations in accordance with paragraph (2) 
    regarding specific actions that are necessary to promote the 
    economic development of the rural Northern Great Plains while 
    preserving, to the maximum extent possible, the natural beauty and 
    habitat of the Northern Great Plains.
        (2) Recommendations.--
            (A) Regional collaboration.--The Commission shall, with 
        respect to the Northern Great Plains--
                (i) determine the most effective and appropriate method 
            for ensuring continued collaboration within the region on 
            economic development matters, considering regional 
            compacts, cooperatives, foundations, development 
            corporations, and other agreements and organizations;
                (ii) identify the organizational structure, method of 
            financing, functions, and participating organizations, of 
            the collaboration referred to in clause (i);
                (iii) identify methods of effective multi-community, 
            substate, and small region development; and
                (iv) assess the interconnection between metropolitan 
            and rural areas and identify methods of collaboration 
            between the areas.
            (B) Business development.--The Commission shall, with 
        respect to the rural Northern Great Plains--
                (i) recommend methods of diversifying the rural 
            economy, including the development and financing of value-
            added and new-use agricultural products;
                (ii) develop methods to promote and finance beginning 
            owner-occupied farming and ranching operations;
                (iii) recommend methods of promoting entrepreneurial 
            development, including business startups and expansions;
                (iv) recommend methods in which the public, private, 
            and nonprofit sectors can help increase international 
            trading levels and penetrate new markets in agricultural, 
            manufactured, and service products;
                (v) evaluate the potential utility of business and 
            manufacturing networks in target sectors;
                (vi) assess the competitiveness of manufacturers and 
            the use of modern technology, processes, and information by 
            the manufacturers, and methods of assisting manufacturers 
            lacking the technology, processes, or information;
                (vii) recommend methods in which capital and technical 
            assistance can be provided on a regional or sectoral basis 
            to business startups and expansions by public, private, and 
            nonprofit organizations; and
                (viii) recommend ways in which Federal and State 
            resource conservation programs can be used to encourage 
            tourism in the region.
            (C) Capital.--The Commission shall, with respect to the 
        rural Northern Great Plains--
                (i) determine if there are capital needs in the 
            economy, and in what part of the economy the needs are 
            located, and recommend how governmental, nonprofit, 
            cooperative, community-based, microlending, banking, 
            venture, seed, and nonbanking financing sources can assist 
            in meeting the needs;
                (ii) identify such strategies in organization, 
            regulations, policy, marketing, and coordination as are 
            needed to implement a plan to meet the needs referred to in 
            clause (i); and
                (iii) recommend methods of utilizing secondary 
            financial markets to increase the capital available for 
            business development.
            (D) Infrastructure.--The Commission shall, with respect to 
        the rural Northern Great Plains--
                (i) prepare a plan to preserve, finance, and operate 
            effective freight railroad service in coordination with 
            States, the Federal Railroad Administration, the Interstate 
            Commerce Commission, rail operators, shippers, and the 
            financial community;
                (ii) prepare an assessment and agreement on the capital 
            needs, coordination, and financing of telecommunications 
            infrastructure, in cooperation with the Department of 
            Agriculture, the National Telecommunications and 
            Information Administration of the Department of Commerce, 
            the Federal Communications Commission, the public utilities 
            commission of each State, telephone companies and 
            cooperatives, representative users, and such other entities 
            as the Commission determines are appropriate; and
                (iii) recommend strategies for addressing air, water, 
            and highway needs.
            (E) Human resources.--The Commission shall, with respect to 
        the rural Northern Great Plains--
                (i) identify methods of facilitating the employment and 
            business startups of individuals who are not effectively 
            participating in the labor force, including unemployed, 
            underemployed, and low-income individuals and households;
                (ii) identify methods of coordinating on a regional or 
            sectoral basis education and training programs that are 
            tied to economic development initiatives, especially 
            programs that address the outmigration of youth; and
                (iii) study the competence and availability of the 
            labor force and the effects of the health, educational, 
            training, housing, and economic needs of the labor force, 
            and identify regional strategies addressing the needs.
            (F) Government programs, policies, and regulations.--The 
        Commission shall submit to the appropriate government, 
        nonprofit, and private sector organizations recommendations for 
        modifications or additions to the programs, policies, and 
        regulations referred to in section 7(b)(18) to promote the 
        rural development of the Northern Great Plains.

SEC. 11. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate on the earlier of--
        (1) 120 days after the date of submission of the final report 
    under section 10; and
        (2) 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.