[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 214 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.214
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To authorize the construction of a memorial on Federal land in the 
District of Columbia or its environs to honor members of the Armed 
Forces who served in World War II and to commemorate United States 
participation in that conflict.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.

    (a) In General.--The American Battle Monuments Commission 
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ``Commission'') is 
authorized to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of 
Columbia or its environs to honor members of the Armed Forces who served 
in World War II and to commemorate the participation of the United 
States in that war.
    (b) Compliance With Standards for Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial shall be in accordance with the Act 
entitled ``An Act to provide standards for placement of commemorative 
works on certain Federal lands in the District of Columbia and its 
environs, and for other purposes'' approved November 14, 1986 (40 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.).
    (c) Handicapped Access.--The plan, design, construction, and 
operation of the memorial pursuant to this section shall provide for 
accessibility by, and accommodations for, the physically handicapped.

SEC. 2. ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) Establishment of Board.--There is hereby established a World War 
II Memorial Advisory Board, consisting of 12 members, who shall be 
appointed by the President from among veterans of World War II, 
historians of World War II, and representatives of veterans 
organizations, historical associations, and groups knowledgeable about 
World War II.
    (b) Appointments.--Members of the Board shall be appointed not later 
than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
serve for the life of the Board. The President shall make appointments 
to fill such vacancies as may occur on the Board.
    (c) Responsibilities of the Board.--The Board shall--
        (1) in the manner specified by the Commission, promote 
    establishment of the memorial and encourage donation of private 
    contributions for the memorial; and
        (2) upon the request of the Commission, advise the Commission on 
    the site and design for the memorial.
    (d) Sunset.--The Board shall cease to exist on the last day of the 
third month after the month in which the memorial is completed or the 
month of the expiration of the authority for the memorial under section 
10(b) of the Act referred to in section 1(b), whichever first occurs.

SEC. 3. PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS.

    The American Battle Monuments Commission shall solicit and accept 
private contributions for the memorial.

SEC. 4. FUND IN THE TREASURY FOR THE MEMORIAL.

    (a) In General.--There is hereby created in the Treasury a fund 
which shall be available to the American Battle Monuments Commission for 
the expenses of establishing the memorial. The fund shall consist of--
        (1) amounts deposited, and interest and proceeds credited, under 
    subsection (b);
        (2) obligations obtained under subsection (c); and
        (3) the amount of surcharges paid to the Commission for the 
    memorial under the World War II 50th Anniversary Commemorative Coins 
    Act.
    (b) Deposits and Credits.--The Chairman of the Commission shall 
deposit in the fund the amounts accepted as contributions under section 
3. The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest 
on, and the proceeds from sale or redemption of, obligations held in the 
fund.
    (c) Obligations.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any 
portion of the fund that, as determined by the Chairman of the 
Commission, is not required to meet current expenses. Each investment 
shall be made in an interest bearing obligation of the United States or 
an obligation guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United 
States that, as determined by the Chairman of the Commission, has a 
maturity suitable for the fund.
    (d) Abolition.--Upon the final settlement of the accounts of the 
fund, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Congress a draft 
of legislation (including technical and conforming provisions) 
recommended by the Secretary for the abolition of the fund.

SEC. 5. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.

    If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the 
memorial (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for 
in section 8(b) of the Act referred to in section 1(b)), or upon 
expiration of the authority for the memorial under section 10(b) of that 
Act, there remains a balance in the fund created
by section 4, the Chairman of the American Battle Monuments Commission 
shall transmit the amount of the balance to the Secretary of the 
Treasury for deposit in the account provided for in section 8(b)(1) of 
that Act.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.