[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 252 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.252
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for certain land exchanges in the State of Idaho, and for 
other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Idaho Land Exchange Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. TARGHEE NATIONAL FOREST BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundaries of the Targhee National Forest are 
adjusted as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Targhee National 
Forest Proposed Boundary Changes'' and dated March 1, 1991.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
        (1) Public access.--The map described in subsection (a) and a 
    legal description of the lands depicted on the map shall be on file 
    and available for public inspection in the Regional Office of the 
    Intermountain Region of the Forest Service.
        (2) Technical corrections.--The map and legal description shall 
    have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except 
    that the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this Act as the 
    ``Secretary'') may correct clerical and typographical errors.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--For the purpose of section 7 of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the 
boundaries of the Targhee National Forest, as adjusted by this Act, 
shall be considered to be the boundaries of the Forest as of January 1, 
1965.

SEC. 3. CLARK FORK LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that, over the 12 years prior to the 
date of enactment of this Act--
        (1) the University of Idaho has utilized the Clark Fork Ranger 
    Station within the Kaniksu National Forest as the Clark Fork Field 
    Campus, under a Granger-Thye permit; and
        (2) the University of Idaho has made substantial improvements in 
    order to maintain and utilize the buildings as a campus facility.
    (b) Definitions.--As used in this section:
        (1) Parcel a.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the approximately 
    35.27 acres comprising the Clark Fork Ranger Station within the 
    Kaniksu National Forest, as depicted on the map entitled ``Clark 
    Fork Land Exchange--Parcel A'' and dated July 1, 1991.
        (2) Parcel b.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the approximately 40 
    acres depicted on the map entitled ``Clark Fork Land Exchange--
    Parcel B'' and dated July 1, 1991.
    (c) Land Exchange.--
        (1) Conveyance by the secretary.--In exchange for the conveyance 
    described in paragraph (2) and subject to easements that are 
    considered necessary by the Secretary for public and administrative 
    access and to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall convey to 
    the State of Idaho, acting through the Regents of the University of 
    Idaho, all right, title, and interest of the United States to Parcel 
    A.
        (2) Conveyance by the state of idaho.--In exchange for the 
    conveyance described in paragraph (1) and subject to valid existing 
    rights of record acceptable to the Secretary, the State of Idaho 
    shall convey to the Secretary, by general warranty deed in 
    accordance with Department of Justice title standards, all right, 
    title, and interest to Parcel B.
        (3) Maps and legal descriptions.--
            (A) Public access.--The maps described in subsection (b) and 
        the legal descriptions of the lands depicted on the maps shall 
        be on file and available for public inspection in the Regional 
        Office of the Northern Region of the Forest Service.
            (B) Technical corrections.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, 
        except that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors.
    (d) Land Valuation.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), if the lands 
    exchanged between the United States and the State of Idaho, as 
    authorized by subsection (c), are not of equal value, the values 
    shall be equalized in accordance with section 206(b) of the Federal 
    Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)).
        (2) Exception.--The value of the improvements made by the 
    University of Idaho on Parcel A under the Granger-Thye permit shall 
    be excluded from consideration in a valuation conducted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1).
    (e) National Forest Boundary Adjustment.--
        (1) In general.--Upon acquisition of Parcel B by the United 
    States, the boundaries of the Kaniksu National Forest shall be 
    adjusted to include Parcel B.
        (2) Rule of construction.--For the purpose of section 7 of the 
    Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the 
    boundaries of the Kaniksu National Forest, as adjusted by this Act, 
    shall be considered to be the boundaries of the Forest as of January 
    1, 1965.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.