[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 273 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.273

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To remove certain restrictions from a parcel of land owned by the city 
of North Charleston, South Carolina, in order to permit a land exchange, 
and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. REMOVAL OF DEED RESTRICTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to 
as the ``Secretary'') shall execute such instruments as are necessary 
to remove the deed restrictions described in subsection (c), in order 
to allow the city of North Charleston, South Carolina (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``city'') to enter into a land exchange.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary shall remove the deed 
restrictions described in subsection (c) on the condition that--
        (1) the city exchange the parcel of land described in 
    subsection (d) for another parcel of land to be subject to the same 
    restrictions, exceptions, reservations, conditions, and covenants 
    described in subsection (c), and encumbered by a reversionary 
    interest to be held by the United States to be exercised, at its 
    option, should all or any portion of such parcel cease to be used 
    for public park or recreational purposes;
        (2) the city convey all mineral interests to the United States 
    in the parcel received by the city pursuant to the land exchange 
    referred to in paragraph (1); and
        (3) the city receive such sums as are necessary to equalize the 
    values of the parcels exchanged: Provided, That any sums received 
    by the city pursuant to this paragraph shall be used by the city 
    only for public park or recreation purposes.
    (c) Deed Restrictions.--The deed restrictions referred to in 
paragraphs (a) and (b) are those restrictions, exceptions, 
reservations, conditions, and covenants described in the Quitclaim Deed 
of the United States to the city of North Charleston, South Carolina, 
dated August 9, 1978 (Deed Books of Charleston County, South Carolina, 
on page 318 of book T116).
    (d) Land Description.--The parcel of land referred to in subsection 
(a) consists of approximately 21.6 acres in Charleston County, South 
Carolina, as described on page 318 of book T116 of the Deed Books of 
Charleston County, South Carolina.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.