[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 316 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.316

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To establish the Saguaro National Park in the State of Arizona, and 
for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Saguaro National Park Establishment 
Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    The Congress finds that--
        (1) the Saguaro National Monument was established by 
    Presidential Proclamation in 1933;
        (2) the Tucson Mountain unit was established by Presidential 
    Proclamation in 1961;
        (3) in recognition of the need to provide increased protection 
    for the monument, the boundaries of Tucson Mountain unit were 
    expanded in 1976, and the boundaries of Rincon unit were expanded 
    in 1991;
        (4) the Tucson Mountain unit continues to face threats to the 
    integrity of its natural resources, scenic beauty, and habitat 
    protection for which the unit was established;
        (5) these threats impede opportunities for public enjoyment, 
    education, and safety within the monument, as well as opportunities 
    for solitude within the wilderness areas of the monument designated 
    by Congress in 1976;
        (6) the residential and commercial growth of the greater 
    Tucson, Arizona metropolitan area is causing increasing threats to 
    the monument's resources; and
        (7) the Tucson Mountain unit should be enlarged by the addition 
    of adjacent lands of National Park caliber and Saguaro National 
    Monument should be afforded full recognition and statutory 
    protection as a National Park.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF SAGUARO NATIONAL PARK.

    There is hereby established the Saguaro National Park (hereinafter 
in this Act referred to as the ``park'') in the State of Arizona. The 
Saguaro National Monument is abolished as such, and all lands and 
interests therein are hereby incorporated within and made part of 
Saguaro National Park. Any reference to Saguaro National Monument shall 
be deemed a reference to Saguaro National Park, and any funds available 
for the purposes of the monument shall be available for purposes of the 
park.

SEC. 4. EXPANSION OF PARK BOUNDARIES.

    (a) In General.--The boundaries of the park are hereby modified to 
reflect the addition of approximately 3,460 acres of land and interests 
therein as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Saguaro National 
Monument Additions'' and dated April, 1994.
    (b) Land Acquisition.--(1) Within the lands added to the park 
pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary is authorized to acquire 
lands and interests therein by donation, purchase with donated or 
appropriated funds, transfer, or exchange: Provided, That no such lands 
or interests therein may be acquired without the consent of the owner 
thereof unless the Secretary determines that the land is being 
developed, or is proposed to be developed in a manner which is 
determental to the integrity of the park.
    (2) Lands or interests therein owned by the State of Arizona or a 
political subdivision thereof may only be acquired by donation or 
exchange.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
lands within the park are hereby withdrawn from all forms of entry, 
appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, from location, 
entry, or patent under the United States mining laws, and from 
disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing, 
and mineral materials, and all amendments thereto.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.