[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 328 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.328
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for the rehabilitation of historic structures within the 
Sandy Hook Unit of Gateway National Recreation Area in the State of New 
Jersey, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. MARINE ACADEMY AGREEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In order to further the revitalization, 
rehabilitation, and utilization of Fort Hancock within the Sandy Hook 
Unit of Gateway National Recreation Area, the Secretary of the Interior 
may enter into an agreement with the Monmouth County Vocational School 
District or a successor (referred to in this Act as the ``District''), 
to permit the use by the District of properties situated along Gunnison 
Road and Magruder Road for the purpose of developing and operating, 
without cost to the National Park Service, a secondary school program to 
be known as the Marine Academy of Science and Technology.
    (b) Design of Facilities.--The design of new facilities and 
landscape improvements, and the rehabilitation of existing facilities 
for school and administrative use, shall be subject to the approval of 
the Director of the National Park Service. In determining whether to 
approve the design and rehabilitation, the Director shall use standards 
for rehabilitation and National Park Service guidelines and policies 
that are approved by the Secretary of the Interior.

SEC. 2. REVERSION.

    If the properties, facilities, and improvements referred to in 
section 1 are not used by the District for a secondary school program, 
the agreement authorized by section 1 shall be terminated and all use of 
the properties, facilities, and improvements shall revert, without 
consideration, to the National Park Service.

SEC. 3. REIMBURSEMENT.

    (a) Rehabilitation.--As a condition of entering into the agreement 
authorized by section 1, the Secretary of the Interior may--
        (1) accept reimbursement expenses, of not more than $500,000, to 
    cover the cost of rehabilitating other property within the Sandy 
    Hook Unit of Gateway National Recreation Area for park uses that are 
    displaced from facilities used by the District under the agreement 
    authorized by section 1; or
        (2) require the District to rehabilitate other property for the 
    park uses--
            (A) under the direction of the National Park Service; and
            (B) at a cost of not more than $500,000.
    (b) Fees for Services.--The Director of the National Park Service 
may collect and retain reasonable fees for services provided to the 
District by the National Park Service, including alarm monitoring, 
permit compliance, fire and police protection, and snow removal.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.