[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 326 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.326
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To revise the boundaries of the George Washington Birthplace National 
Monument,

                         and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADDITION TO NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    The boundaries of the George Washington Birthplace National Monument 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``National Monument'') are hereby 
modified to include the area comprising approximately 12 acres, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``George Washington Birthplace 
National Monument Boundary Map'', numbered 332/80,011A and dated 
September 1992, which shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service, 
Department of the Interior.

SEC. 2. ACQUISITION OF LANDS.

    Within the boundaries of the National Monument, the Secretary of the 
Interior (hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to 
acquire lands, or interests therein, by donation, purchase with donated 
or appropriated funds, or exchange.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    In administering the National Monument, the Secretary shall take 
such action as is necessary to preserve and interpret the history and 
resources associated with George Washington, the generations of the 
Washington family who lived in the vicinity, and their contemporaries, 
as well as 18th century plantation life and society.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.