[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 375 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.375

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act by designating a segment of 
the Rio Grande in New Mexico as a component of the National Wild and 
Scenic Rivers System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Rio Grande Designation Act of 
1994''.

SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF SCENIC RIVER.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(  ) Rio Grande, New Mexico._The main stem from the southern 
boundary of the segment of the Rio Grande designated pursuant to 
paragraph (4), downstream approximately 12 miles to the west section 
line of Section 15, Township 23 North, Range 10 East, to be 
administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a scenic river.''.

SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF STUDY RIVER.

    (a) Study._Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1276(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(  ) Rio Grande, New Mexico._The segment from the west section 
line of Section 15, Township 23 North, Range 10 East, downstream 
approximately 8 miles to the southern line of the northwest quarter of 
Section 34, Township 23 North, Range 9 East.''.
    (b) Study Requirements._Section 5(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 
1276(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(  ) The study of the Rio Grande in New Mexico shall be completed 
and the report submitted not later than 3 years after the date of 
enactment of this paragraph.''.

SEC. 4. RIO GRANDE CITIZENS ADVISORY BOARD.

    As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
Land Management, shall take appropriate steps to obtain the views of 
the residents of the village of Pilar and of those persons who are the 
owners of property adjoining the river segments described in sections 2 
and 3 concerning implementation of this Act, and to assure that those 
views will be considered in connection with preparation of a 
comprehensive management plan for the segment designated by section 2 
and the study required by section 3.

SEC. 5. WITHDRAWAL OF ORILLA VERDE RECREATION AREA.

    (a) In General._Subject to valid existing rights, the lands 
described in subsection (b) are withdrawn from_
        (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the 
    public land laws;
        (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
        (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
    geothermal leasing.
    (b) Lands._
        (1) Description._The lands referred to in subsection (a) 
    comprise an area known as the ``Orilla Verde Recreation Area'', 
    including_
            (A) approximately 1,349 acres which were conveyed to the 
        United States by the State of New Mexico on July 23, 1980, 
        April 20, 1990, and July 17, 1990; and
            (B) an additional 4,339 acres of public lands, all as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Orilla Verde 
        Recreation Area, New Mexico'', and dated February, 1994.
        (2) Public access._The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall 
    be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
    offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 6. COMPLETION OF PREHISTORIC TRACKWAYS STUDY.

    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to contract with the 
Smithsonian Institution for the completion of the prehistoric trackways 
study required under section 303 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
conduct certain studies in the State of New Mexico'', approved November 
15, 1990 (Public Law 101-578).







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.