[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 528 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.528

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To provide for the transfer of certain United States Forest Service 
lands located in Lincoln County, Montana, to Lincoln County in the State 
of Montana.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Lincoln County, Montana, Lands 
Transfer Act of 1994''.

SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.

    (a) As soon as practicable, but in no event not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture 
(hereinafter the ``Secretary'') shall convey, without consideration, 
all right, title, and interest of the United States to the following 
lands located within the boundaries of the Kootenai National Forest, 
Montana, to Lincoln County, Montana--
        (1) approximately 30 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Libby Junior High 
    School'' dated August 1994;
        (2) approximately 2 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Boyd Cemetery'' dated 
    August 1994;
        (3) approximately 27.68 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Yaak Ambulance Barn'' 
    dated August 1994;
        (4) approximately 170 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Libby Landfill'' dated 
    August 1994;
        (5) approximately 11 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Eureka Administration 
    Site'' dated August 1994; and
        (6) approximately 99.5 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Kootenai National Forest Lands--Old Libby Airport'' 
    dated August 1994.
    (b) As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall convey, without consideration, the timber and 
mineral rights to approximately 182.04 acres at the new Libby Airport, 
as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Kootenai National Forest 
Lands--Timber and Mineral Rights Transfer at Libby Airport'' dated 
August 1994, to Lincoln County, Montana.
    (c) If the lands referred to in subsection (a) cease to be used for 
public purposes, such lands shall revert to the United States: 
Provided, That the lands shall not revert if the Secretary determines 
that such lands, or any portion thereof, have become contaminated with 
hazardous substances (as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 and 
following)).

SEC. 3. RELEASE.

    Upon the transfer of any lands or interests therein identified in 
section 2 of this Act to Lincoln County, Lincoln County shall release 
the United States from any liability for claims relating to such lands 
or interests therein.

SEC. 4. MAPS.

    The maps referred to in this Act shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, in 
Washington, D.C.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.