[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 537 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        S.537

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act


 
                  For the relief of Tania Gil Compton.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR TANIA GIL COMPTON.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), Tania Gil Compton shall 
be classified as a child within the meaning of section 101(b)(1)(F) of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act for the purposes of the approval of 
an immediate relative visa petition filed by her adoptive parent, and 
the filing of an application for an immigrant visa or adjustment of 
status, under that Act.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Tania Gil Compton enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she 
shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully, and shall, 
if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under 
section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of 
enactment of this Act, except that paragraph (2) of section 245(c) of 
that Act shall not apply.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status are filed with appropriate fees within 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Tania Gil Compton, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by one 
number, for the current or next following fiscal year, the total number 
of immigrant visas available under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act, in accordance with clause (ii) of that 
section.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--No natural parent, brother, or sister, if any, of Tania Gil 
Compton shall, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.