[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 80 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.80
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To increase the size of the Big Thicket National Preserve in the State 
of Texas by adding the Village Creek corridor unit, the Big Sandy 
corridor unit, and the Canyonlands unit.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be referred to as the ``Big Thicket National Preserve 
Addition Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. ADDITIONS TO THE BIG THICKET NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    (a) Additions.--Subsection (b) of the first section of the Act 
entitled ``An Act to authorize the establishment of the Big Thicket 
National Preserve in the State of Texas, and for other purposes'', 
approved October 11, 1974 (16 U.S.C. 698), hereafter referred to as the 
``Act'', is amended as follows:
        (1) Strike out ``map entitled `Big Thicket National Preserve''' 
    and all that follows through ``Secretary of the Interior (hereafter 
    referred to as the `Secretary')'' and insert in lieu thereof ``map 
    entitled `Big Thicket National Preserve', dated October 1992, and 
    numbered 175-80008, which shall be on file and available for public 
    inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department 
    of the Interior, and the offices of the Superintendent of the 
    preserve. After advising the Committee on Energy and Natural 
    Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on Natural 
    Resources of the United States House of Representatives, in writing, 
    the Secretary of the Interior (hereafter referred to as the 
    `Secretary') may make minor revisions of the boundaries of the 
    preserve when necessary by publication of a revised drawing or other 
    boundary description in the Federal Register. The Secretary''.
        (2) Strike out ``and'' at the end of the penultimate 
    undesignated paragraph relating to Little Pine Island-Pine Island 
    Bayou corridor unit.
        (3) Strike out the period in the ultimate undesignated paragraph 
    relating to Lance Rosier unit and insert in lieu thereof ``;''.
        (4) Add at the end thereof the following:
        ``Village Creek Corridor unit, Hardin County, Texas, comprising 
    approximately four thousand seven hundred and ninety-three acres;
        ``Big Sandy Corridor unit, Hardin, Polk, and Tyler Counties, 
    Texas, comprising approximately four thousand four hundred and 
    ninety-seven acres; and
        ``Canyonlands unit, Tyler County, Texas, comprising 
    approximately one thousand four hundred and seventy-six acres.''.
    (b) Acquisition.--(1) Subsection (c) of the first section of such 
Act is amended by striking out the first sentence and inserting in lieu 
thereof the following: ``The Secretary is authorized to acquire by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any 
other Federal agency, or exchange, any lands, waters, or interests 
therein which are located within the boundaries of the preserve: 
Provided, That privately owned lands located within the Village Creek 
Corridor, Big Sandy Corridor, and Canyonlands units may be acquired only 
with the consent of the owner: Provided further, That the Secretary may 
acquire lands owned by commercial timber companies only by donation or 
exchange: Provided further, That any lands owned by the State of Texas, 
or any political subdivisions thereof may be acquired by donation 
only.''.
    (2) Add at the end of the first section of such Act the following 
new subsections:
    ``(d) Within sixty days after the date of enactment of this 
subsection, the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
identify lands within their jurisdiction located within the vicinity of 
the preserve which may be suitable for exchange for commercial timber 
lands within the preserve. In so doing, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall seek to identify for exchange National Forest lands that are near 
or adjacent to private lands that are already owned by the commercial 
timber companies. Such National Forest lands shall be located in the 
Sabine National Forest in Sabine County, Texas, in the Davy Crockett 
National Forest south of Texas State Highway 7, or in other sites deemed 
mutually agreeable, and within reasonable distance of the timber 
companies' existing mills. In exercising this exchange authority, the 
Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture may utilize any authorities 
or procedures otherwise available to them in connection with land 
exchanges, and which are not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act. 
Land exchanges authorized pursuant to this subsection shall be of equal 
value and shall be completed as soon as possible, but no later than two 
years after date of enactment of this subsection.
    ``(e) With respect to the thirty-seven-acre area owned by the 
Louisiana-Pacific Corporation or its subsidiary, Kirby Forest 
Industries, Inc., on Big Sandy Creek in Hardin County, Texas, and now 
utilized as part of the Indian Springs Youth Camp (H.G. King Abstract 
822), the Secretary shall not acquire such area without the consent of 
the owner so long as the area is used exclusively as a youth camp.''.
    (c) Publication of Boundary Description.--Not later than six months 
after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall 
publish in the Federal Register a detailed description of the boundary 
of the Village Creek Corridor unit, the Big Sandy Corridor unit, and the 
Canyonlands unit of the Big Thicket National Preserve.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 6 of such Act is 
amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sentence: 
``Effective upon date of enactment of this sentence, there is authorized 
to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the 
purposes of subsections (c) and (d) of the first section.''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.