[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 836 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.836
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                                 An Act

  
 
  To amend the National Trails System Act to provide for a study of El 
Camino Real de Tierra Adentro (The Royal Road of the Interior Lands), 
and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro 
Study Act of 1993''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
        (1) El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro was the primary route for 
    nearly 300 years that was used by clergy, colonists, soldiers, 
    Indians, officials, and trade caravans between Mexico and New 
    Mexico;
        (2) from the Spanish colonial period (1598-1821), through the 
    Mexican national period (1821-1848), and through part of the United 
    States Territorial period (1840-1912), El Camino Real de Tierra 
    Adentro extended 1,800 miles from Mexico City through Chihuahua 
    City, El Paso del Norte, and on to Santa Fe in northern New Mexico;
        (3) the road was the first to be developed by Europeans in what 
    is now the United States and for a time was one of the longest roads 
    in North America; and
        (4) El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro, until the arrival of the 
    railroad in the 1880's, witnessed and stimulated great multi-
    cultural exchanges and the evolution of nations, peoples, and 
    cultures.

SEC. 3. DESIGNATION OF TRAIL.

    Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(36)(A) El Camino Real de Tierra Adentro, the approximately 1,800 
mile route extending from Mexico City, Mexico, across the international 
border at El Paso, Texas, to Santa Fe, New Mexico.
    ``(B) The study shall--
        ``(i) examine changing routes within the general corridor;
        ``(ii) examine major connecting branch routes; and
        ``(iii) give due consideration to alternative name designations.
    ``(C) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to work in 
cooperation with the Government of Mexico (including, but not limited to 
providing technical assistance) to determine the suitability and 
feasibility of establishing an international historic route along the El 
Camino Real de Tierra Adentro.''.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.