[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 859 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.859

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  To reduce the restrictions on lands conveyed by deed under the Act of 
June 8, 1926.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 2 of the 
Act of June 8, 1926 (ch. 498; 44 Stat. 708), is amended by--
        (1) inserting ``(a)'' before ``The conveyance'';
        (2) striking ``States.'' at the end of the first sentence and 
    inserting in lieu thereof ``States, except that such restrictions 
    on conveyances and uses shall not apply to those lands upon which 
    communication facilities were located as of January 1, 1993.''; and
        (3) adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Reasonable use of an access route in existence on June 1, 
1994, across National Forest lands shall be allowed for the repair, 
maintenance, or improvement of the communication facilities referred to 
in subsection (a), but the Secretary of Agriculture shall not be 
required to improve the condition of any such access route or to 
provide any additional access route for such purposes.
    ``(c) Recreational activities on the lands identified in section 1, 
totaling approximately one thousand four hundred and forty acres, may 
be allowed so long as such recreational use is consistent both with the 
protection of the watershed and water supply system of the city and 
with the management objectives for adjacent National Forest System 
lands. Construction of structures or other improvements associated with 
such recreational activities shall be permitted only to the extent that 
the Secretary of Agriculture has determined that such construction 
would be consistent with protection of watershed and would not 
adversely affect the resources and values of adjacent National Forest 
System lands.''.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.