[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 172 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

<DOC>

        H.R.

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                                 An Act

  
 
  Designating May 30, 1994, through June 6, 1994, as a ``Time for the 
National Observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II''.









                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
Whereas the brave men and women of the United States of America made 
  tremendous sacrifices during World War II to save the world from 
  tyranny and aggression;
Whereas the winds of freedom and democracy sweeping the globe today 
  spring from the principles for which over four hundred thousand 
  Americans gave their lives in World War II;
Whereas World War II and the events that led up to that war must be 
  understood in order that we may better understand our own times, and 
  more fully appreciate the reasons why eternal vigilance against any 
  form of tyranny is so important;
Whereas the World War II era, as reflected in its family life, 
  industry, and entertainment, was a unique period in American history 
  and epitomized our Nation's philosophy of hard work, courage, and 
  tenacity in the face of adversity;
Whereas, between 1991 and 1995, over nine million American veterans of 
  World War II will be holding reunions and conferences and otherwise 
  commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of various events relating to 
  World War II; and
Whereas June 4, 1994, marks the anniversary of the Battle of Midway, 
  and June 6, 1994, marks the anniversary of D-Day: Now, therefore, be 
  it
    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That May 30, 1994, through 
June 6, 1994, is designated as a ``Time for the National Observance of 
the Fiftieth Anniversary of World War II'', and the President is 
authorized and requested to issue a proclamation calling on the people 
of the United States to observe that period with appropriate ceremonies 
and activities.
Passed the Senate June 24 (legislative day, June 7), 1994.
Attest:






                                                             Secretary.