[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 196 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 196

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  Designating September 16, 1994, as ``National POW/MIA Recognition 
Day'' and authorizing display of the National League of Families POW/MIA 
flag.

Whereas the United States has fought in many wars and thousands of 
  Americans who served in those wars were captured by the enemy or 
  listed as missing in action;
Whereas many American prisoners of war were subjected to brutal and 
  inhumane treatment by their enemy captors in violation of 
  international codes and customs for the treatment of prisoners of 
  war, and many such prisoners of war died from such treatment;
Whereas many of these Americans are still listed as missing and 
  unaccounted for, and the uncertainty surrounding their fates has 
  caused their families to suffer tragic and continuing hardships;
Whereas, in the Joint Resolution entitled ``Joint Resolution 
  designating September 21, 1990, as `National POW/MIA Recognition 
  Day', and recognizing the National League of Families POW/MIA flag'', 
  approved August 10, 1990, the Federal Government officially 
  recognized and designated the National League of Families POW/MIA 
  flag as the symbol of the Nation's concern and commitment to 
  accounting, as fully as possible, for Americans whom are still 
  prisoners of war, missing in action, or unaccounted for in Southeast 
  Asia; and
Whereas the sacrifices of the Americans whom are still missing in 
  action and unaccounted for from all our Nation's wars and their 
  families are deserving of national recognition and support for 
  continued priority efforts to determine the fate of those missing 
  Americans: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY.

    September 16, 1994, is designated ``National POW/MIA Recognition 
Day'', and the President is authorized and requested to issue a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe that 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT TO DISPLAY NATIONAL LEAGUE OF FAMILIES POW/MIA 
FLAG.
    (a) In General.--The POW/MIA flag shall be displayed, as a symbol 
of the concern and commitment of the United States to accounting, as 
fully as possible, for Americans whom are still prisoners of war, 
missing in action, or unaccounted for and to ending the uncertainty for 
their families and the Nation--
        (1) at all national cemeteries and the National Vietnam 
    Veterans Memorial on May 30, 1994 (Memorial Day), September 16, 
    1994 (National POW/MIA Recognition Day), and November 11, 1994 
    (Veteran's Day); and
        (2) on, or on the grounds of, the buildings specified in 
    subsection (b) on September 16, 1994.
    (b) Buildings.--The buildings specified in this subsection are--
        (1) the White House;
        (2) the Capitol Building; and
        (3) the buildings containing the primary offices of the--
            (A) Secretary of State;
            (B) Secretary of Defense;
            (C) Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
            (D) Director of the Selective Service Commission.
    (c) POW/MIA Flag.--As used in this section, the term ``POW/MIA 
flag'' means the National League of Families POW/MIA flag recognized 
officially and designated by section 2 of the Joint Resolution entitled 
``Joint Resolution designating September 21, 1990, as `National POW/MIA 
Recognition Day', and recognizing the National League of Families POW/
MIA flag'', approved August 10, 1990 (36 U.S.C. 189).







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.