[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 99 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 99
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                            Joint Resolution


 
  Designating September 9, 1993, and April 21, 1994, each as ``National

                             D.A.R.E. Day''.

Whereas Drug Abuse Resistance Education (in this joint resolution 
  referred to as ``D.A.R.E.'') is the largest and most effective drug-
  use prevention education program in the United States, and is now 
  taught to 25,000,000 youths in grades K-12;
Whereas D.A.R.E. is taught in more than 250,000 classrooms reaching all 
  50 States, Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Canada, Puerto 
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, Costa Rica, Mexico, Brazil, Hungary, and 
  Department of Defense Dependent Schools worldwide;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. core curriculum, developed by the Los Angeles 
  Police Department and the Los Angeles Unified School District, helps 
  prevent substance abuse among school-age children by providing 
  students with accurate information about alcohol and drugs, teaching 
  students decision-making skills, educating students about the 
  consequences of certain behaviors, and building students' self-esteem 
  while teaching them how to resist peer pressure;
Whereas D.A.R.E. provides parents with information and guidance to 
  further the development of their children and reinforce the decisions 
  of their children to lead drug-free lives;
Whereas D.A.R.E. is taught by street-wise veteran police officers with 
  years of direct experience with people whose lives were ruined by 
  substance abuse, giving them unmatched credibility;
Whereas each police officer who teaches D.A.R.E. completes 80 hours of 
  specialized training in areas such as child development, classroom 
  management, teaching techniques, and communication skills;
Whereas independent research has found that D.A.R.E. substantially 
  impacts students' attitudes toward substance use, contributes to 
  improved study habits, higher grades, decreased vandalism and gang 
  activity, and generates greater respect for police officers; and
Whereas 1993 marks the 10th year that D.A.R.E. has provided students 
  with the skills they will need as young adults to resist the 
  temptations of drug abuse: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That September 9, 1993, and 
April 21, 1994, are each designated as ``National
D.A.R.E. Day'', and the President of the United States is authorized and 
requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United 
States to observe such days with appropriate ceremonies and activities.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.