[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 1 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 1
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  To ensure that the compensation and other emoluments attached to the 
office

 of Secretary of the Treasury are those which were in effect on January 
                                1, 1989.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That (a) the compensation and 
other emoluments attached to the office of Secretary of the Treasury 
shall be those in effect January 1, 1989, notwithstanding any increase 
in such compensation or emoluments after that date under--
        (1) the Ethics Reform Act of 1989 (Public Law 101-194) or any 
    other provision of law amended by that Act; or
        (2) any other provision of law, or provision which has the force 
    and effect of law, that is enacted or becomes effective during the 
    period beginning at noon of January 3, 1989, and ending at noon of 
    January 3, 1995.
    (b)(1) Any person aggrieved by an action of the Secretary of the 
Treasury may bring a civil action in the United States District Court 
for the District of Columbia to contest the constitutionality of the 
appointment and continuance in office of the Secretary of the Treasury 
on the ground that such appointment and continuance in office is in 
violation of article I, section 6, clause 2, of the Constitution. The 
United States District Court for the District of Columbia shall have 
exclusive jurisdiction over such a civil action, without regard to the 
sum or value of the matter in controversy.
    (2) Any claim challenging the constitutionality of the appointment 
and continuance in office of the Secretary of the Treasury on the ground 
that such appointment and continuance in office is in violation of 
article I, section 6, clause 2, of the Constitution, in an action 
brought under paragraph (1) shall be heard and determined by a panel of 
three judges in accordance with section 2284 of title 28, United States 
Code. It shall be the duty of the district court to advance on the 
docket and to expedite the disposition of any matter brought under this 
subsection.
    (3)(A) An appeal may be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the 
United States from any interlocutory or final judgment, decree, or order 
upon the validity of the appointment and continuance in office of the 
Secretary of the Treasury under article I, section 6, clause 2, of the 
Constitution, entered in any action brought under this subsection. Any 
such appeal shall be taken by a notice of appeal filed within 20 days 
after such judgment, decree, or order is entered.
    (B) The Supreme Court shall, if it has not previously ruled on the 
question presented by an appeal taken pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
accept jurisdiction over the appeal, advance the appeal on the docket, 
and expedite the appeal.
    (c) This joint resolution shall become effective at 12:00 p.m., 
January 20, 1993.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.