[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 195 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 195

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  To designate August 1, 1994, as ``Helsinki Human Rights Day''.

Whereas August 1, 1994, is the 19th anniversary of the signing of the 
  Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe 
  (CSCE) (hereafter referred to as the ``Helsinki Accords'');
Whereas the participating States have declared their determination to 
  fully respect and apply the Helsinki Principles Guiding Relations 
  among participating States, including respect for human rights, the 
  territorial integrity of States, and the inviolability of frontiers;
Whereas the participating States have declared that ``the protection 
  and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the 
  strengthening of democratic institutions continue to be a vital basis 
  for our comprehensive security'';
Whereas the participating States have declared that ``respect for human 
  rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons 
  belonging to national minorities, democracy, the rule of law, 
  economic liberty, social justice, and environmental responsibility 
  are our common aims'';
Whereas the participating States have acknowledged that ``there is 
  still much work to be done in building democratic and pluralistic 
  societies, where diversity is fully protected and respected in 
  practice'';
Whereas the war in Bosnia and Hercegovina has resulted in organized, 
  systematic, and premeditated war crimes and genocide and has 
  threatened stability and security in Europe;
Whereas ethnic tensions, civil unrest, and egregious human rights 
  abuses in several of the recently admitted CSCE States continue to 
  result in significant violations of CSCE commitments; and
Whereas the CSCE has contributed to positive developments in Europe by 
  promoting and furthering respect for the human rights and fundamental 
  freedoms of all individuals and groups and provides an appropriate 
  framework for the further development of such rights and freedoms and 
  genuine security and cooperation among the participating States: Now, 
  therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. HELSINKI HUMAN RIGHTS DAY.

    (a) Designation.--August 1, 1994, the 19th anniversary of the 
signing of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, is designated as ``Helsinki Human Rights Day''.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is authorized and requested to 
issue a proclamation reasserting America's commitment to full 
implementation of the human rights and humanitarian provisions of the 
Helsinki Accords, urging all signatory States to abide by their 
obligations under the Helsinki Accords, and encouraging the people of 
the United States to join the President and Congress in observance of 
Helsinki Human Rights Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and 
activities.
    (c) Human Rights.--The President is requested to convey to all 
signatories of the Helsinki Accords that respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms continues to be a vital element of further 
progress in the ongoing Helsinki process; and to develop new proposals 
to advance the human rights objectives of the Helsinki process, and in 
so doing to address the major problems that remain.

SEC. 2. TRANSMITTAL.

    The Secretary of State is directed to transmit copies of this joint 
resolution to the Ambassadors or representatives to the United States 
of the other 52 Helsinki signatory States.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.