[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 229 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 229

                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
 the twenty-fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-
                                  four


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  Regarding United States policy toward Haiti.

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES 
              OPERATIONS IN HAITI.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (a) the men and women of the United States Armed Forces in 
    Haiti who are performing with professional excellence and dedicated 
    patriotism are to be commended;
        (b) the President should have sought and welcomed Congressional 
    approval before deploying United States Armed Forces to Haiti;
        (c) the departure from power of the de facto authorities in 
    Haiti, and Haitian efforts to achieve national reconciliation, 
    democracy and the rule of law are in the best interests of the 
    Haitian people;
        (d) the President's lifting of the unilateral economic 
    sanctions on Haiti, and his efforts to bring about the lifting of 
    economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations are appropriate; 
    and
        (e) Congress supports a prompt and orderly withdrawal of all 
    United States Armed Forces from Haiti as soon as possible.
SEC. 2. PRESIDENTIAL STATEMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY OBJECTIVES.
    The President shall prepare and submit to the President pro tempore 
of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives 
(hereafter, ``Congress'') not later than seven days after enactment of 
this resolution a statement of the national security objectives to be 
achieved by Operation Uphold Democracy, and a detailed description of 
United States policy, the military mission and the general rules of 
engagement under which operations of United States Armed Forces are 
conducted in and around Haiti, including the role of United States 
Armed Forces regarding Haitian on Haitian violence, and efforts to 
disarm Haitian military or police forces, or civilians. Changes or 
modifications to such objectives, policy, military mission, or general 
rules of engagement shall be submitted to Congress within forty-eight 
hours of approval.

SEC. 3. REPORT ON THE SITUATION IN HAITI.

    Not later than November 1, 1994, and monthly thereafter until the 
cessation of Operation Uphold Democracy, the President shall submit a 
report to Congress on the situation in Haiti, including--
        (a) a listing of the units of the United States Armed Forces 
    and of the police and military units of other nations participating 
    in operations in and around Haiti;
        (b) the estimated duration of Operation Uphold Democracy and 
    progress toward the withdrawal of all United States Armed Forces 
    from Haiti consistent with the goal of section 1(e) of this 
    resolution;
        (c) armed incidents or the use of force in or around Haiti 
    involving United States Armed Forces or Coast Guard personnel in 
    the time period covered by the report;
        (d) the estimated cumulative incremental cost of all United 
    States activities subsequent to September 30, 1993, in and around 
    Haiti, including but not limited to--
            (1) the cost of all deployments of United States Armed 
        Forces and Coast Guard personnel, training, exercises, 
        mobilization, and preparation activities, including the 
        preparation of police and military units of the other nations 
        of the multinational force involved in enforcement of 
        sanctions, limits on migration, establishment and maintenance 
        of migrant facilities at Guantanamo Bay and elsewhere, and all 
        other activities relating to operations in and around Haiti; 
        and
            (2) the costs of all other activities relating to United 
        States policy toward Haiti, including humanitarian assistance, 
        reconstruction, aid and other financial assistance, and all 
        other costs to the United States Government;
        (e) a detailed accounting of the source of funds obligated or 
    expended to meet the costs described in subparagraph (d), 
    including--
            (1) in the case of funds expended from the Department of 
        Defense budget, a breakdown by military service or defense 
        agency, line item and program, and
            (2) in the case of funds expended from the budgets of 
        departments and agencies other than the Department of Defense, 
        by department or agency and program;
        (f) the Administration plan for financing the costs of the 
    operations and the impact on readiness without supplemental 
    funding;
        (g) a description of the situation in Haiti, including--
            (1) the security situation;
            (2) the progress made in transferring the functions of 
        government to the democratically elected government of Haiti; 
        and
            (3) progress toward holding free and fair parliamentary 
        elections;
        (h) a description of issues relating to the United Nations 
    Mission in Haiti (UNMIH), including--
            (1) the preparedness of the United Nations Mission in Haiti 
        (UNMIH) to deploy to Haiti to assume its functions;
            (2) troop commitments by other nations to UNMIH;
            (3) the anticipated cost to the United States of 
        participation in UNMIH, including payments to the United 
        Nations and financial, material and other assistance to UNMIH;
            (4) proposed or actual participation of United States Armed 
        Forces in UNMIH;
            (5) proposed command arrangements for UNMIH, including 
        proposed or actual placement of United States Armed Forces 
        under foreign command; and
            (6) the anticipated duration of UNMIH.

SEC. 4. REPORT ON HUMAN RIGHTS.

    Not later than January 1, 1995, the Secretary of State shall report 
to Congress on the participation or involvement of any member of the de 
jure or de facto Haitian government in violations of internationally-
recognized human rights from December 15, 1990, to December 15, 1994.

SEC. 5. REPORT ON UNITED STATES AGREEMENTS.

    Not later than November 15, 1994, the Secretary of State shall 
provide a comprehensive report to Congress on all agreements the United 
States has entered into with other nations, including any assistance 
pledged or provided, in connection with United States efforts in Haiti. 
Such report shall also include information on any agreements or 
commitments relating to United Nations Security Council actions 
concerning Haiti since 1992.

SEC. 6. TRANSITION TO UNITED NATIONS MISSION IN HAITI.

    Nothing in this resolution should be construed or interpreted to 
constitute Congressional approval or disapproval of the participation 
of United States Armed Forces in the United Nations Mission in Haiti.







                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.