[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 111 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 111
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                            Joint Resolution


 
     To designate August 1, 1993, as ``Helsinki Human Rights Day''.

Whereas August 1, 1993, is the 18th anniversary of the signing of the 
  Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe 
  (CSCE) (hereafter referred to as the ``Helsinki Accords'');
Whereas the participating States have declared that ``the protection and 
  promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the 
  strengthening of democratic institutions continue to be a vital basis 
  for our comprehensive security'';
Whereas the participating States have declared that ``respect for human 
  rights and fundamental freedoms, including the rights of persons 
  belonging to national minorities, democracy, the rule of law, economic 
  liberty, social justice, and environmental responsibility are our 
  common aims'';
Whereas the participating States have acknowledged that ``there is still 
  much work to be done in building democratic and pluralistic societies, 
  where diversity is fully protected and respected in practice'';
Whereas the war in Bosnia-Hercegovina has resulted in organized, 
  systematic, and premeditated war crimes and genocide and threatens 
  stability and security in Europe;
Whereas growing ethnic tensions, civil unrest, and egregious human 
  rights violations in several of the newly admitted CSCE states, most 
  notably in Tajikistan, are resulting in significant violations of CSCE 
  commitments; and
Whereas the CSCE has contributed to positive developments in Europe by 
  promoting and furthering respect for the human rights and fundamental 
  freedoms of all individuals and groups and provides an appropriate 
  framework for the further development of such rights and freedoms and 
  genuine security and cooperation among the participating States: Now, 
  therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. HELSINKI HUMAN RIGHTS DAY.

    (a) Designation.--August 1, 1993, the 18th anniversary of the 
signing of the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Cooperation 
in Europe, is designated as ``Helsinki Human Rights Day''.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is authorized and requested to 
issue a proclamation reasserting America's commitment to full 
implementation of the human rights and humanitarian provisions of the 
Helsinki Accords, urging all signatory States to abide by their 
obligations under the Helsinki Accords, and encouraging the people of 
the United States to join the President and Congress in observance of 
Helsinki Human Rights Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and 
activities.
    (c) Human Rights.--The President is requested to convey to all 
signatories of the Helsinki Accords that respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms continues to be a vital element of further progress 
in the ongoing Helsinki process; and to develop new proposals to advance 
the human rights objectives of the Helsinki process, and in so doing to 
address the major problems that remain.

SEC. 2. TRANSMITTAL.

    The Secretary of State is directed to transmit copies of this joint 
resolution to the Ambassadors or representatives to the United States of 
the other 52 Helsinki signatory States.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.