[Congressional Bills 103th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S.J. Res. 126 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.J.Res. 126
                       One Hundred Third Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
  the fifth day of January, one thousand nine hundred and ninety-three


                            Joint Resolution

  
 
  Designating September 10, 1993, as ``National POW/MIA Recognition 
Day'' and

authorizing the display of the National League of Families POW/MIA flag.

Whereas the United States has fought in many wars and thousands of 
  Americans who served in those wars were captured by the enemy or 
  listed as missing in action;
Whereas many American prisoners of war were subjected to brutal and 
  inhumane treatment by their enemy captors in violation of 
  international codes and customs for the treatment of prisoners of war, 
  and many such prisoners of war died from such treatment;
Whereas many of these Americans are still listed as missing and 
  unaccounted for, and the uncertainty surrounding their fates has 
  caused their families to suffer tragic and continuing hardships;
Whereas, in Public Law 101-355, the Federal Government officially 
  recognized and designated the National League of Families POW/MIA flag 
  as the symbol of the Nation's concern and commitment to accounting as 
  fully as possible for Americans still prisoner, missing in action, or 
  unaccounted for in Southeast Asia; and
Whereas the sacrifices of Americans still missing and unaccounted for 
  from all our Nation's wars and their families are deserving of 
  national recognition and support for continued priority efforts to 
  determine the fate of those missing Americans: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY.

    September 10, 1993, is designated as ``National POW/MIA Recognition 
Day'', and the President is authorized and requested to issue a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe the 
day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT TO DISPLAY NATIONAL LEAGUE OF FAMILIES POW/MIA FLAG.
    (a) In General.--The POW/MIA flag shall be displayed--
        (1) at all national cemeteries and the National Vietnam Veterans 
    Memorial on May 31, 1993 (Memorial Day), September 10, 1993 
    (National POW/MIA Recognition Day), and November 11, 1993 (Veterans 
    Day); and
        (2) on, or on the grounds of, the buildings specified in 
    subsection (b) on September 10, 1993;
as the symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to accounting as 
fully as possible for Americans still prisoner, missing, and unaccounted 
for, thus ending the uncertainty for their families and the Nation.
    (b) Buildings.--The buildings specified in this subsection are--
        (1) the White House; and
        (2) the buildings containing the primary offices of--
            (A) the Secretary of State;
            (B) the Secretary of Defense;
            (C) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
            (D) the Director of the Selective Service System.
    (c) POW/MIA Flag.--As used in this section, the term ``POW/MIA 
flag'' means the National League of Families POW/MIA flag recognized 
officially and designated by section 2 of Public Law 101-355.







                                Speaker of the House of Representatives.







                             Vice President of the United States and    
                                                President of the Senate.