[106th Congress Public Law 161]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ161.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1775]]

Public Law 106-161
106th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
  Conferring status as an honorary veteran of the United States Armed 
   Forces on Zachary Fisher. <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.J. Res. 46]>> 

Whereas the United States has only once before conferred on an 
    individual status as an honorary veteran of the United States Armed 
    Forces, when in Public Law 105-67 Congress conferred that status on 
    Leslie Townes (Bob) Hope;

Whereas status as an honorary veteran of the United States Armed Forces 
    is and should remain an extraordinary honor not lightly conferred 
    nor frequently granted;

Whereas the lifetime of accomplishments and generosity of Zachary Fisher 
    on behalf of United States military servicemembers, veterans, and 
    their families through a wide range of philanthropic activities 
    fully justifies the conferring of such status;

Whereas Zachary Fisher is himself not a veteran, having attempted to 
    enlist in the Armed Forces to serve his country during World War II, 
    but being informed that he was ineligible due to a preexisting 
    medical condition;

Whereas Zachary Fisher and his wife Elizabeth have as private citizens 
    enhanced the lives of thousands of servicemembers, veterans, and 
    their families through a wide range of philanthropic activities;

Whereas Zachary Fisher has been honored by each of the branches of the 
    Armed Forces, by the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs, 
    and by the major veterans service organizations for projects such as 
    the preservation of the USS INTREPID as a sea-air-space museum in 
    New York harbor, the establishment of the Fisher House program for 
    relatives of critically ill members of the Armed Forces and their 
    families, and the furnishing of scholarships and other financial 
    support to families who have lost a loved one in service to their 
    country; and

Whereas Zachary Fisher has been awarded the Presidential Medal of 
    Freedom in recognition of his extraordinary patriotism and 
    philanthropy: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) extends its gratitude, on behalf of the American people, 
        to Zachary Fisher for his lifetime of accomplishments and 
        philanthropy on behalf of United States military servicemembers; 
        and

[[Page 113 STAT. 1776]]

            (2) confers upon Zachary Fisher the status of an honorary 
        veteran of the United States Armed Forces.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 46:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Nov. 2, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>