[106th Congress Public Law 227]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ227.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 460]]

Public Law 106-227
106th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Recognizing the 225th birthday of the United States Army. <<NOTE: June 
                     28, 2000 -  [H.J. Res. 101]>> 

Whereas on June 14, 1775, the Second Continental Congress, representing 
    the citizens of 13 American colonies, authorized the establishment 
    of the Continental Army;
Whereas the collective expression of the pursuit of personal freedom 
    that caused the authorization and organization of the United States 
    Army led to the adoption of the Declaration of Independence and the 
    codification of the new Nation's basic principles and values in the 
    Constitution;
Whereas for the past 225 years, the Army's central mission has been to 
    fight and win the Nation's wars;
Whereas whatever the mission, the Nation turns to its Army for decisive 
    victory;
Whereas the 172 battle streamers carried on the Army flag are testament 
    to the valor, commitment, and sacrifice of the brave soldiers who 
    have served the Nation in the Army;
Whereas Valley Forge, New Orleans, Mexico City, Gettysburg, Verdun, 
    Bataan, Normandy, Pusan, the Ia Drang Valley, Grenada, Panama, and 
    Kuwait are but a few of the places where soldiers of the United 
    States Army have won extraordinary distinction and respect for the 
    Nation and its Army;
Whereas the motto of ``Duty, Honor, Country'' is the creed by which the 
    American soldier lives and serves;
Whereas the United States Army today is the world's most capable and 
    respected ground force;
Whereas future Army forces are being prepared to conduct quick, 
    decisive, highly sophisticated operations anywhere, anytime; and
Whereas no matter what the cause, location, or magnitude of future 
    conflicts, the Nation can rely on its Army to produce well-trained, 
    well-led, and highly motivated soldiers to carry out the missions 
    entrusted to them: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress, recognizing the 
historic significance of the 225th anniversary of the United States 
Army--
            (1) expresses the appreciation of the people of the United 
        States to the Army and the soldiers who have served in it for 
        225 years of dedicated service;

[[Page 114 STAT. 461]]

            (2) honors the valor, commitment, and sacrifice that 
        American soldiers have displayed throughout the history of the 
        Army; and
            (3) calls upon the President to issue a proclamation--
                    (A) recognizing the 225th birthday of the United 
                States Army and the dedicated service of the soldiers 
                who have served in the Army; and
                    (B) calling upon the people of the United States to 
                observe that anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and 
                activities.

    Approved June 28, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 101 (S.J. Res. 46):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            June 13, considered and passed House.
            June 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>