[106th Congress Public Law 142]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ142.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1701]]

Public Law 106-142
106th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
  Commending the World War II veterans who fought in the Battle of the 
Bulge, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 7, 1999 -  [H.J. Res. 65]>> 

Whereas the battle in the European theater of operations during World 
    War II known as the Battle of the Bulge was fought from December 16, 
    1944, to January 25, 1945;

Whereas the Battle of the Bulge was a major German offensive in the 
    Ardennes forest region of Belgium and Luxembourg which took Allied 
    forces by surprise and was intended to split the Allied forces in 
    Europe by breaking through the Allied lines, crippling the Allied 
    fuel supply lines, and exacerbating tensions within the alliance;

Whereas 600,000 American troops, joined by 55,000 British soldiers and 
    other Allied forces, participated in the Battle of the Bulge, 
    overcoming numerous disadvantages in the early days of the battle 
    that included fewer numbers, treacherous terrain, and bitter weather 
    conditions;

Whereas the Battle of the Bulge resulted in 81,000 American and 1,400 
    British casualties, of whom approximately 19,000 American and 200 
    British soldiers were killed, with the remainder wounded, captured, 
    or listed as missing in action;

Whereas the worst atrocity involving Americans in the European theater 
    during World War II, known as the Malmedy Massacre, occurred on 
    December 17, 1944, when 86 unarmed American prisoners of war were 
    gunned down by elements of the German 1st SS Panzer Division;

Whereas American, British, and other Allied forces overcame great odds 
    throughout the battle, including most famously the action of the 
    101st Airborne Division in holding back German forces at the key 
    Belgian crossroads town of Bastogne, thereby preventing German 
    forces from achieving their main objective of reaching Antwerp as 
    well as the Meuse River line;

Whereas the success of American, British, and other Allied forces in 
    defeating the German attack made possible the defeat of Nazi Germany 
    4 months later in April 1945;

Whereas thousands of United States veterans of the Battle of the Bulge 
    have traveled to Belgium and Luxembourg in the years since the 
    battle to honor their fallen comrades who died during the battle;

Whereas the peoples of Belgium and Luxembourg, symbolizing their 
    friendship and gratitude toward the American soldiers who fought

[[Page 113 STAT. 1702]]

    to secure their freedom, have graciously hosted countless veterans 
    groups over the years;

Whereas the City of Bastogne has an annual commemoration of the battle 
    and its annual Nuts Fair has been expanded to include commemoration 
    of the legendary one-word reply of ``Nuts'' by Brigadier General 
    Anthony McAuliffe of the 101st Airborne Division when called upon by 
    the opposing German commander at Bastogne to surrender his forces to 
    much stronger German forces;

Whereas the Belgian people erected the Mardasson Monument to honor the 
    Americans who fought in the Battle of the Bulge as well as to 
    commemorate their sacrifices and service during World War II;

Whereas the 55th anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge in 1999 will be 
    marked by many commemorative events by Americans, Belgians, and 
    Luxembourgers; and

Whereas the friendship between the United States and both Belgium and 
    Luxembourg is strong today in part because of the Battle of the 
    Bulge: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) commends the veterans of the United States Army, the 
        British Army, and military forces of other Allied nations who 
        fought during World War II in the German Ardennes offensive 
        known as the Battle of the Bulge;
            (2) honors those who gave their lives during that battle;
            (3) authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling 
        upon the people of the United States to honor the veterans of 
        the Battle of the Bulge with appropriate programs, ceremonies, 
        and activities; and
            (4) calls upon the President to reaffirm the bonds of 
        friendship between the United States and both Belgium and 
        Luxembourg.

    Approved December 7, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 65:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-352, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Veterans' Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 5, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>