[106th Congress Public Law 263]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ263.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 737]]

Public Law 106-263
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the settlement of the water rights claims of the Shivwits 
         Band of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 18, 2000 -  [H.R. 3291]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Shivwits Band of the Paiute 
Indian Tribe of Utah Water Rights Settlement Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Shivwits Band of the Paiute Indian 
Tribe of Utah Water Rights Settlement Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) It is the official policy of the United States, in 
        keeping with its trust responsibility to Indian tribes, to 
        promote Indian self-determination and economic self-sufficiency, 
        and to settle the water rights claims of Indian tribes to avoid 
        lengthy and costly litigation.
            (2) Any meaningful policy of Indian self-determination and 
        economic self-sufficiency requires the development of viable 
        Indian reservation economies.
            (3) The quantification of water rights and the development 
        of water use facilities is essential to the development of 
        viable Indian reservation economies, particularly in the arid 
        Western States.
            (4) The Act of March 3, 1891, provided for the temporary 
        support of the Shebit (or Shivwits) tribe of Indians in 
        Washington County, Utah, and appropriated moneys for the 
        purchase of improvements on lands along the Santa Clara River 
        for the use of said Indians. Approximately 26,880 acres in the 
        same area were set aside as a reservation for the Shivwits Band 
        by Executive order dated April 21, 1916. Additional lands were 
        added to the reservation by Congress on May 28, 1937.
            (5) The waters of the Santa Clara River are fully 
        appropriated except during high flow periods. A water right was 
        awarded to the United States for the benefit of the Shivwits 
        Band in the 1922 adjudication entitled St. George Santa Clara 
        Field Co., et al. v. Newcastle Reclamation Co., et al., for 
        ``1.38 cubic feet of water per second for the irrigation of 83.2 
        acres of land and for culinary, domestic, and stock watering 
        purposes'', but no provision has been made for water resource 
        development to benefit the Shivwits Band. In general, the 
        remainder of the Santa Clara River's flow is either diverted on 
        the reservation and delivered through a canal devoted 
        exclusively to non-Indian use that traverses the reservation to 
        a reservoir owned by the Ivins Irrigation Company; dedicated

[[Page 114 STAT. 738]]

        to decreed and certificated rights of irrigation companies 
        downstream of the reservation; or impounded in the Gunlock 
        Reservoir upstream of the reservation. The Band's lack of access 
        to water has frustrated its efforts to achieve meaningful self-
        determination and economic self-sufficiency.
            (6) On July 21, 1980, the State of Utah, pursuant to title 
        73, chapter 4, Utah Code Ann., initiated a statutory 
        adjudication of water rights in the Fifth Judicial District 
        Court in Washington County, Utah, Civil No. 800507596, which 
        encompasses all of the rights to the use of water, both surface 
        and underground, within the drainage area of the Virgin River 
        and its tributaries in Utah (``Virgin River Adjudication''), 
        including the Santa Clara River Drainage (``Santa Clara 
        System'').
            (7) The United States was joined as a party in the Virgin 
        River Adjudication pursuant to section 666 of title 43, United 
        States Code. On February 17, 1987, the United States filed a 
        Statement of Water User Claim asserting a water right based on 
        State law and a Federal reserved water rights claim for the 
        benefit of the Shivwits Band to water from the Santa Clara River 
        System. This was the only claim the United States filed for any 
        Indian tribe or band in the Virgin River Adjudication within the 
        period allowed by title 73, chapter 4, Utah Code Ann., which 
        bars the filing of claims after the time prescribed therein.
            (8) The Virgin River adjudication will take many years to 
        conclude, entail great expense, and prolong uncertainty as to 
        the availability of water supplies, and thus, the parties have 
        sought to settle their dispute over water and reduce the burdens 
        of litigation.
            (9) After lengthy negotiation, which included participation 
        by representatives of the United States Government for the 
        benefit of the Shivwits Band, the State of Utah, the Shivwits 
        Band, the Washington County Water Conservancy District, the City 
        of St. George, and others on the Santa Clara River System, the 
        parties have entered into agreements to resolve all water rights 
        claims between and among themselves and to quantify the water 
        right entitlement of the Shivwits Band, and to provide for the 
        construction of water projects to facilitate the settlement of 
        these claims.
            (10) Pursuant to the St. George Water Reuse Project 
        Agreement, the Santa Clara Project Agreement, and the Settlement 
        Agreement, the Shivwits Band will receive the right to a total 
        of 4,000 acre-feet of water annually in settlement of its 
        existing State law claims and Federal reserved water right 
        claims.
            (11) To advance the goals of Federal Indian policy and 
        consistent with the trust responsibility of the United States to 
        the Shivwits Band, it is appropriate that the United States 
        participate in the implementation of the St. George Water Reuse 
        Project Agreement, the Santa Clara Project Agreement, and the 
        Settlement Agreement in accordance with this Act.

SEC. 3. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to achieve a fair, equitable, and final settlement of 
        all claims to water rights in the Santa Clara River for the

[[Page 114 STAT. 739]]

        Shivwits Band, and the United States for the benefit of the 
        Shivwits Band;
            (2) to promote the self-determination and economic self-
        sufficiency of the Shivwits Band, in part by providing funds to 
        the Shivwits Band for its use in developing a viable reservation 
        economy;
            (3) to approve, ratify, and confirm the St. George Water 
        Reuse Project Agreement, the Santa Clara Project Agreement, and 
        the Settlement Agreement, and the Shivwits Water Right described 
        therein;
            (4) to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to execute 
        the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement, the Santa Clara 
        Project Agreement, and the Settlement Agreement, and to take 
        such actions as are necessary to implement these agreements in a 
        manner consistent with this Act; and
            (5) to authorize the appropriation of funds necessary for 
        implementation of the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement, 
        the Santa Clara Project Agreement, and the Settlement Agreement.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) Utah.--The term ``Utah'' means the State of Utah, by and 
        through its Department of Natural Resources.
            (3) Shivwits band.--The term ``Shivwits Band'' means the 
        Shivwits Band of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, a constituent 
        band of the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, a federally recognized 
        Indian tribe organized under section 16 of the Indian 
        Reorganization Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 U.S.C. 
        476), and the Act of April 3, 1980 (94 Stat. 317).
            (4) Paiute indian tribe of utah.--The term ``Paiute Indian 
        Tribe of Utah'' means the federally recognized Indian Tribe 
        organized under section 16 of the Indian Reorganization Act of 
        June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 U.S.C. 476), and the Act of 
        April 3, 1980 (94 Stat. 317), comprised of five bands of 
        Southern Paiute Indians (Shivwits, Indian Peaks, Cedar, 
        Koosharem, and Kanosh Bands).
            (5) District.--The term ``District'' means the Washington 
        County Water Conservancy District, a Utah water conservancy 
        district.
            (6) St. george.--The term ``St. George'' means St. George 
        City, a Utah municipal corporation.
            (7) Virgin river adjudication.--The term ``Virgin River 
        Adjudication'' means the statutory adjudication of water rights 
        initiated pursuant to title 73, chapter 4, Utah Code Ann. and 
        pending in the Fifth Judicial District Court in Washington 
        County, Utah, Civil No. 800507596.
            (8) St. george water reuse project agreement.--The term 
        ``St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement'' means the agreement 
        among the United States for the benefit of the Shivwits Band, 
        Utah, the Shivwits Band, and St. George City, together with all 
        exhibits thereto, as the same is approved and executed by the 
        Secretary of the Interior pursuant to section 8 of this Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 740]]

            (9) Santa clara project agreement.--The term ``Santa Clara 
        Project Agreement'' means the agreement among the United States 
        for the benefit of the Shivwits Band, Utah, the Shivwits Band, 
        the Washington County Water Conservancy District, St. George 
        City, the New Santa Clara Field Canal Company, the St. George 
        Clara Field Canal Company, the Ivins Irrigation Company, the 
        Southgate Irrigation Company, Bloomington Irrigation Company, Ed 
        Bowler, and the Lower Gunlock Reservoir Company, together with 
        all exhibits thereto, as the same is approved and executed by 
        the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to section 8 of this Act.
            (10) Settlement agreement.--The term ``Settlement 
        Agreement'' means that agreement among the United States for the 
        benefit of the Shivwits Band, Utah, the Shivwits Band, the 
        Washington County Water Conservancy District, St. George City, 
        the New Santa Clara Field Canal Company, the St. George Clara 
        Field Canal Company, the Ivins Irrigation Company, the Southgate 
        Irrigation Company, Bloomington Irrigation Company, Ed Bowler, 
        and the Lower Gunlock Reservoir Company, together with all 
        exhibits thereto, as the same is approved and executed by the 
        Secretary of the Interior pursuant to section 8 of this Act.
            (11) Shivwits water right.--The term ``Shivwits Water 
        Right'' means the water rights of the Shivwits Band set forth in 
        the Settlement Agreement and as settled, confirmed, and ratified 
        by section 7 of this Act.
            (12) Shivwits band trust fund.--The term ``Shivwits Band 
        Trust Fund'' means the Trust Fund authorized in section 11 of 
        this Act to further the purposes of the Settlement Agreement and 
        this Act.
            (13) Virgin river resource management and recovery 
        program.--The term ``Virgin River Resource Management and 
        Recovery Program'' means the proposed multiagency program, to be 
        administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
        Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Utah, and the 
        District, whose primary purpose is to prioritize and implement 
        native fish recovery actions that offset impacts due to future 
        water development in the Virgin River basin.

SEC. 5. ST. GEORGE WATER REUSE PROJECT.

    (a) St. George Water Reuse Project.--The St. George Water Reuse 
Project shall consist of water treatment facilities, a pipeline, and 
associated pumping and delivery facilities owned and operated by St. 
George, which is a component of, and shall divert water from, the Water 
Reclamation Facility located in St. George, Utah, and shall transport 
this water for delivery to and use by St. George and the Shivwits Band. 
St. George shall make 2,000 acre-feet of water available annually for 
use by the Shivwits Band in accordance with the St. George Water Reuse 
Project Agreement and this Act.
    (b) Project Construction Operation and Maintenance.--(1) St. George 
shall be responsible for the design, engineering, permitting, 
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of the St. 
George Water Reuse Project, and the payment of its proportionate share 
of these project costs as provided for in the St. George Water Reuse 
Project Agreement.

[[Page 114 STAT. 741]]

    (2) The Shivwits Band and the United States for the benefit of the 
Shivwits Band shall make available, in accordance with the terms of the 
St. George Water Reuse Agreement and this Act, a total of $15,000,000 to 
St. George for the proportionate share of the design, engineering, 
permitting, construction, operation, maintenance, repair, and 
replacement of the St. George Water Reuse Project associated with the 
2,000 acre-feet annually to be provided to the Shivwits Band.

SEC. 6. SANTA CLARA PROJECT.

    (a) Santa Clara Project.--The Santa Clara Project shall consist of a 
pressurized pipeline from the existing Gunlock Reservoir across the 
Shivwits Reservation to and including Ivins Reservoir, along with main 
lateral pipelines. The Santa Clara Project shall pool and deliver the 
water rights of the parties as set forth in the Santa Clara Project 
Agreement. The Santa Clara Project shall deliver to the Shivwits Band a 
total of 1,900 acre-feet annually in accordance with the Santa Clara 
Project Agreement and this Act.
    (b) Instream Flow.--The Santa Clara Project shall release instream 
flow water from the Gunlock Reservoir into the Santa Clara River for the 
benefit of the Virgin Spinedace, in accordance with the Santa Clara 
Project Agreement and this Act.
    (c) Project Funding.--The Utah Legislature and the United States 
Congress have each appropriated grants of $750,000 for the construction 
of the Santa Clara Project. The District shall provide a grant of 
$750,000 for the construction of the Santa Clara Project. The District 
shall provide any additional funding required for the construction of 
the Santa Clara Project.
    (d) Project Construction, Operation, and Maintenance.--The District 
shall be responsible for the permitting, design, engineering, 
construction, and the initial operation, maintenance, repair, and 
replacement of the Santa Clara Project. Operation, maintenance, repair, 
and replacement activities and costs of the Santa Clara Project shall be 
handled in accordance with the terms of the Santa Clara Project 
Agreement.

SEC. 7. SHIVWITS WATER RIGHT.

    (a) In General.--The Shivwits Band and its members shall have the 
right in perpetuity to divert, pump, impound, use, and reuse a total of 
4,000 acre-feet of water annually from the Virgin River and Santa Clara 
River systems, to be taken as follows:
            (1) 1,900 acre-feet annually from the Santa Clara River 
        System, with an 1890 priority date in accordance with the terms 
        of the Santa Clara Project Agreement.
            (2) 2,000 acre-feet of water annually from the St. George 
        Water Reuse Project as provided for in the St. George Water 
        Reuse Project Agreement. The Shivwits Band shall have first 
        priority to the reuse water provided from the St. George Water 
        Reclamation Facility.
            (3) 100 acre-feet annually, with a 1916 priority date, from 
        groundwater on the Shivwits Reservation.

    (b) Water Rights Claims.--All water rights claims of the Shivwits 
Band, and the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah acting on behalf of the 
Shivwits Band, are hereby settled. The Shivwits Water Right is hereby 
ratified, confirmed, and shall be held in trust by the United States for 
the benefit of the Shivwits Band.

[[Page 114 STAT. 742]]

    (c) Settlement.--The Shivwits Band may use water from the springs 
and runoff located on the Shivwits Reservation. The amount used from 
these sources will be reported annually to the Utah State Engineer by 
the Shivwits Band and shall be counted against the annual 4,000 acre-
feet Shivwits Water Right.
    (d) Abandonment, Forfeiture, or Nonuse.--The Shivwits Water Right 
shall not be subject to loss by abandonment, forfeiture, or nonuse.
    (e) Use or Lease.--The Shivwits Band may use or lease the Shivwits 
Water Right for either or both of the following:
            (1) For any purpose permitted by tribal or Federal law 
        anywhere on the Shivwits Band Reservation. Once the water is 
        delivered to the Reservation, such use shall not be subject to 
        State law, regulation, or jurisdiction.
            (2) For any beneficial use off the Shivwits Reservation in 
        accordance with the St. George Water Reuse Agreement, the Santa 
        Clara Project Agreement, the Settlement Agreement, and all 
        applicable Federal and State laws.

No service contract, lease, exchange, or other agreement entered into 
under this subsection may permanently alienate any portion of the 
Shivwits Water Right.

SEC. 8. RATIFICATION OF AGREEMENTS.

    Except to the extent that the St. George Water Reuse Project 
Agreement, the Santa Clara Project Agreement, and the Settlement 
Agreement conflict with the provisions of this Act, such agreements are 
hereby approved, ratified, and confirmed. The Secretary is hereby 
authorized to execute, and take such other actions as are necessary to 
implement, such agreements.

SEC. 9. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.

    (a) Full Satisfaction of Claims.--The benefits realized by the 
Shivwits Band and its members under the St. George Water Reuse Project 
Agreement, the Santa Clara Project Agreement, the Settlement Agreement, 
and this Act shall constitute full and complete satisfaction of all 
water rights claims, and any continuation thereafter of any of these 
claims, of the Shivwits Band and its members, and the Paiute Indian 
Tribe of Utah acting on behalf of the Shivwits Band, for water rights or 
injuries to water rights under Federal and State laws from time 
immemorial to the effective date of this Act. Notwithstanding the 
foregoing, nothing in this Act shall be--
            (1) deemed to recognize or establish any right of a member 
        of the Shivwits Band to water on the Shivwits Reservation; or
            (2) interpreted or construed to prevent or prohibit the 
        Shivwits Band from participating in the future in other water 
        projects, or from purchasing additional water rights for their 
        benefit and use, to the same extent as any other entity.

    (b) Waiver and Release.--By the approval, ratification, and 
confirmation herein of the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement, the 
Santa Clara Project Agreement, and the Settlement Agreement, the United 
States executes the following waiver and release in conjunction with the 
Reservation of Rights and Retention of Claims set forth in the 
Settlement Agreement, to be effective upon satisfaction of the 
conditions set forth in section 14 of this Act. Except as otherwise 
provided in the Settlement Agreement, this Act, or the proposed judgment 
and decree referred to in section

[[Page 114 STAT. 743]]

14(a)(7) of this Act, the United States, on behalf of the Shivwits Band 
and the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah acting on behalf of the Shivwits 
Band, waives and releases the following:
            (1) All claims for water rights or injuries to water rights 
        for lands within the Shivwits Reservation that accrued at any 
        time up to and including the effective date determined by 
        section 14 of this Act, and any continuation thereafter of any 
        of these claims, that the United States for the benefit of the 
        Shivwits Band may have against Utah, any agency or political 
        subdivision thereof, or any person, entity, corporation, or 
        municipal corporation.
            (2) All claims for water rights or injuries to water rights 
        for lands outside of the Shivwits Reservation, where such claims 
        are based on aboriginal occupancy of the Shivwits Band, its 
        members, or their predecessors, that accrued at any time up to 
        and including the effective date determined by section 14 of 
        this Act, and any continuation thereafter of any of these 
        claims, that the United States for the benefit of the Shivwits 
        Band may have against Utah, any agency or political subdivision 
        thereof, or any person, entity, corporation, or municipal 
        corporation.
            (3) All claims for trespass to lands on the Shivwits 
        Reservation regarding the use of Ivins Reservoir that accrued at 
        any time up to and including the effective date determined by 
        section 14 of this Act.

    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) ``water rights'' means rights under State and Federal 
        law to divert, pump, impound, use or reuse, or to permit others 
        to divert, pump, impound, use or reuse water; and
            (2) ``injuries to water rights'' means the loss, 
        deprivation, or diminution of water rights.

    (d) Savings Provision.--In the event the waiver and release 
contained in subsection (b) of this section do not become effective 
pursuant to section 14, the Shivwits Band and the United States shall 
retain the right to assert past and future water rights claims as to all 
lands of the Shivwits Reservation, and the water rights claims and 
defenses of all other parties to the agreements shall also be retained.

SEC. 10. <<NOTE: Environmental protection. Wildlife.>> WATER RIGHTS AND 
            HABITAT ACQUISITION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary is authorized to establish a water 
rights and habitat acquisition program in the Virgin River Basin--
            (1) primarily for the benefit of native plant and animal 
        species in the Santa Clara River Basin which have been listed, 
        are likely to be listed, or are the subject of a duly approved 
        conservation agreement under the Endangered Species Act; and
            (2) secondarily for the benefit of native plant and animal 
        species in other parts of the Virgin River Basin which have been 
        listed, are likely to be listed, or are the subject of a duly 
        approved conservation agreement under the Endangered Species 
        Act.

    (b) Water and Water Rights.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire 
water and water rights, with or without the lands to which such rights 
are appurtenant, and to acquire shares in irrigation and water 
companies, and to transfer, hold, and exercise such

[[Page 114 STAT. 744]]

water and water rights and related interests to assist the conservation 
and recovery of any native plant or animal species described in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Requirements.--Acquisition of the water rights and related 
interests pursuant to this section shall be subject to the following 
requirements:
            (1) Water rights acquired must satisfy eligibility criteria 
        adopted by the Secretary.
            (2) Water right purchases shall be only from willing 
        sellers, but the Secretary may target purchases in areas deemed 
        by the Secretary to be most beneficial to the water rights 
        acquisition program established by this section.
            (3) All water rights shall be transferred and administered 
        in accordance with any applicable State law.

    (d) Habitat Property.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire, hold, 
and transfer habitat property to assist the conservation and recovery of 
any native plant or animal species described in section 10(a). 
Acquisition of habitat property pursuant to this section shall be 
subject to the following requirements:
            (1) Habitat property acquired must satisfy eligibility 
        criteria adopted by the Secretary.
            (2) Habitat property purchases shall be only from willing 
        sellers, but the Secretary may target purchases in areas deemed 
        by the Secretary to be most beneficial to the habitat 
        acquisition program established by this section.

    (e) Contract.--The Secretary is authorized to administer the water 
rights and habitat acquisition program by contract or agreement with a 
non-Federal entity which the Secretary determines to be qualified to 
administer such program. The water rights and habitat acquisition 
program shall be administered pursuant to the Virgin River Resource 
Management and Recovery Program.
    (f ) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated from the 
Land and Water Conservation Fund for fiscal years prior to the fiscal 
year 2004, a total of $3,000,000 for the water rights and habitat 
acquisition program authorized in this section. The Secretary is 
authorized to deposit and maintain this appropriation in an interest 
bearing account, said interest to be used for the purposes of this 
section. The funds authorized to be appropriated by this section shall 
not be in lieu of or supersede any other commitments by Federal, State, 
or local agencies. The funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall 
be available until expended, and shall not be expended for the purpose 
set forth in subsection (a)(2) until the Secretary has evaluated the 
effectiveness of the instream flow required and provided by the Santa 
Clara Project Agreement, and has assured that the appropriations 
authorized in this section are first made available for the purpose set 
forth in subsection (a)(1).

SEC. 11. SHIVWITS BAND TRUST FUND.

    (a) Establishment of Trust Fund.--There is established in the 
Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as the ``Shivwits Band 
Trust Fund'' (hereinafter called the ``Trust Fund''). The Secretary 
shall deposit into the Trust Fund the funds authorized to be 
appropriated in subsections (b) and (c). Except as otherwise provided in 
this Act, the Trust Fund principal and any income accruing thereon shall 
be managed in accordance with the American

[[Page 114 STAT. 745]]

Indian Trust Fund Management Reform Act (108 Stat. 4239; 25 U.S.C. 4001 
et seq.).
    (b) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated a total 
of $20,000,000, for fiscal years prior to the fiscal year 2004 for the 
following purposes:
            (1) $5,000,000, which shall be made available to the 
        Shivwits Band from the Trust Fund for purposes including but not 
        limited to those that would enable the Shivwits Band to put to 
        beneficial use all or part of the Shivwits Water Right, to 
        defray the costs of any water development project in which the 
        Shivwits Band is participating, or to undertake any other 
        activity that may be necessary or desired for implementation of 
        the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement, the Santa Clara 
        Project Agreement, the Settlement Agreement, or for economic 
        development on the Shivwits Reservation.
            (2) $15,000,000, which shall be made available by the 
        Secretary and the Shivwits Band to St. George for the St. George 
        Water Reuse Project, in accordance with the St. George Water 
        Reuse Project Agreement.

    (c) Share of Certain Costs.--There is authorized to be appropriated 
to the Trust Fund in fiscal years prior to the fiscal year 2004 a total 
of $1,000,000 to assist with the Shivwits Band's proportionate share of 
operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement costs of the Santa Clara 
Project as provided for in the Santa Clara Project Agreement.
    (d) Use of the Trust Fund.--Except for the $15,000,000 appropriated 
pursuant to subsection (b)(2), all Trust Fund principal and income 
accruing thereon may be used by the Shivwits Band for the purposes 
described in subsections (b)(1) and (c). The Shivwits Band, with the 
approval of the Secretary, may withdraw the Trust Fund and deposit it in 
a mutually agreed upon private financial institution. That withdrawal 
shall be made pursuant to the American Indian Trust Fund Management 
Reform Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.). If the Shivwits Band 
exercises its right pursuant to this subsection to withdraw the Trust 
Fund and deposit it in a private financial institution, except as 
provided in the withdrawal plan, neither the Secretary nor the Secretary 
of the Treasury shall retain any oversight over or liability for the 
accounting, disbursement, or investment of the funds.
    (e) No Per Capita Payments.--No part of the principal of the Trust 
Fund, or of the income accruing thereon, or of any revenue generated 
from any water use subcontract, shall be distributed to any member of 
the Shivwits Band on a per capita basis.
    (f ) Limitation.--The moneys authorized to be appropriated under 
subsections (b) and (c) shall not be available for expenditure or 
withdrawal by the Shivwits Band until the requirements of section 14 
have been met so that the decree has become final and the waivers and 
releases executed pursuant to section 9(b) have become effective. Once 
the settlement becomes effective pursuant to the terms of section 14 of 
this Act, the assets of the Trust Fund belong to the Shivwits Band and 
are not returnable to the United States Government.

SEC. 12. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.

    (a) National Environmental Policy Act.--Signing by the Secretary of 
the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement, the

[[Page 114 STAT. 746]]

Santa Clara Project Agreement, or the Settlement Agreement does not 
constitute major Federal action under the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (b) Other Requirements.--The Secretary shall comply with all aspects 
of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
seq.), and other applicable environmental laws in implementing the terms 
of the St. George Water Reuse Agreement, the Santa Clara Project 
Agreement, the Settlement Agreement, and this Act.

SEC. 13. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Other Indian Tribes.--Nothing in the Settlement Agreement or 
this Act shall be construed in any way to quantify or otherwise 
adversely affect the land and water rights, claims, or entitlements to 
water of any Indian tribe, pueblo, or community, other than the Shivwits 
Band and the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah acting on behalf of the 
Shivwits Band.
    (b) Precedent.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed or 
interpreted as a precedent for the litigation of reserved water rights 
or the interpretation or administration of future water settlement Acts.
    (c) Waiver of Sovereign Immunity.--Except to the extent provided in 
subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 208 of the Department of 
Justice Appropriation Act, 1953 (43 U.S.C. 666), nothing in this Act may 
be construed to waive the sovereign immunity of the United States. 
Furthermore, the submission of any portion of the Settlement Agreement 
to the District Court in the Virgin River Adjudication shall not expand 
State court jurisdiction or expand in any manner the waiver of sovereign 
immunity of the United States in section 666 of title 43, United States 
Code, or any other provision of Federal law.
    (d) Appraisals.--Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the 
Secretary is authorized to approve any right-of-way appraisal which has 
been completed in accordance with the provisions of the Santa Clara 
Project Agreement.

SEC. 14. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    (a) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  In General.--The 
waiver and release contained in section 9(b) of this Act shall become 
effective as of the date the Secretary causes to be published in the 
Federal Register a statement of findings that--
            (1) the funds authorized by sections 11(b) and 11(c) have 
        been appropriated and deposited into the Trust Fund;
            (2) the funds authorized by section 10(f ) have been 
        appropriated;
            (3) the St. George Water Reuse Project Agreement has been 
        modified to the extent it is in conflict with this Act and is 
        effective and enforceable according to its terms;
            (4) the Santa Clara Project Agreement has been modified to 
        the extent it is in conflict with this Act and is effective and 
        enforceable according to its terms;
            (5) the Settlement Agreement has been modified to the extent 
        it is in conflict with this Act and is effective and enforceable 
        according to its terms;
            (6) the State Engineer of Utah has taken all actions and 
        approved all applications necessary to implement the provisions 
        of the St. George Water Reuse Agreement, the Santa Clara

[[Page 114 STAT. 747]]

        Project Agreement, and the Settlement Agreement, from which no 
        further appeals may be taken; and
            (7) the court has entered a judgment and decree confirming 
        the Shivwits Water Right in the Virgin River Adjudication 
        pursuant to Utah Rule of Civil Procedure 54(b), that confirms 
        the Shivwits Water Right and is final as to all parties to the 
        Santa Clara Division of the Virgin River Adjudication and from 
        which no further appeals may be taken, which the United States 
        and Utah find is consistent in all material aspects with the 
        Settlement Agreement and with the proposed judgment and decree 
        agreed to by the parties to the Settlement Agreement.

    (b) Deadline.--If the requirements of paragraphs (1) through (7) of 
subsection (a) are not completed to allow the Secretary's statement of 
findings to be published by December 31, 2003--
            (1) except as provided in section 9(d), this Act shall be of 
        no further force and effect; and
            (2) all unexpended funds appropriated under section 11(b) 
        and (c), together with all interest earned on such funds shall 
        revert to the general fund of the United States Treasury on 
        October 1, 2004.

    Approved August 18, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3291:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-743 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 25, considered and passed House.
            July 27, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>