[106th Congress Public Law 470]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ470.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2055]]

Public Law 106-470
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the 
 suitability and feasibility of establishing an Upper Housatonic Valley 
National Heritage Area in the State of Connecticut and the Commonwealth 
of Massachusetts, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [H.R. 
                                4312]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Upper Housatonic National 
Heritage Area Study Act of 2000.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Upper Housatonic National Heritage 
Area Study Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF STUDY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (``the Secretary'') 
shall conduct a study of the Upper Housatonic National Heritage Area 
(``Study Area''). The study shall include analysis, documentation, and 
determinations regarding whether the Study Area--
            (1) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use, and are best managed through 
        partnerships among public and private entities and by combining 
        diverse and sometimes noncontiguous resources and active 
        communities;
            (2) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs and folklife that 
        are a valuable part of the national story;
            (3) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, and/or scenic features;
            (4) provides outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities;
            (5) contains resources important to the identified theme or 
        themes of the Study Area that retain a degree of integrity 
        capable of supporting interpretation;
            (6) includes residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments who are involved 
        in the planning, have developed a conceptual financial plan that 
        outlines the roles for all participants including the Federal 
        Government, and have demonstrated support for the concept of a 
        national heritage area;
            (7) has a potential management entity to work in partnership 
        with residents, business interests, nonprofit organizations, and 
        local and State governments to develop a national heritage area 
        consistent with continued local and State economic activity; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 2056]]

            (8) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported by the 
        public.

    (b) Consultation.--In conducting the study, the Secretary shall 
consult with the State historic preservation officers, State historical 
societies and other appropriate organizations.

SEC. 3. BOUNDARIES OF THE STUDY AREA.

    The Study Area shall be comprised of--
            (1) part of the Housatonic River's watershed, which extends 
        60 miles from Lanesboro, Massachusetts to Kent, Connecticut;
            (2) the towns of Canaan, Cornwall, Kent, Norfolk, North 
        Canaan, Salisbury, Sharon, and Warren in Connecticut; and
            (3) the towns of Alford, Dalton, Egremont, Great Barrington, 
        Hinsdale, Lanesboro, Lee, Lenox, Monterey, Mount Washington, New 
        Marlboro, Pittsfield, Richmond, Sheffield, Stockbridge, 
        Tyringham, Washington, and West Stockbridge in Massachusetts.

SEC. 4. REPORT. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> 

    Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which funds are 
first available for this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a report on the 
findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the study.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated $300,000 to carry out the 
provisions of this Act.

    Approved November 9, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4312 (S. 2421):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-317 accompanying S. 2421 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 17, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 27, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>