[106th Congress Public Law 563]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ563.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2809]]

Public Law 106-563
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To require the Secretary of the <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 2000 -  [H.R. 
 2570]>> Interior to undertake a study regarding methods to commemorate 
 the national significance of the United States roadways that comprise 
              the Lincoln Highway, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Lincoln Highway Study Act of 
2000.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Lincoln Highway Study Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE STUDY AND REPORT REGARDING THE LINCOLN 
            HIGHWAY.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Lincoln Highway, established in 1913, comprises more 
        than 3,000 miles of roadways from New York, New York, to San 
        Francisco, California, and encompasses United States Routes 1, 
        20, 30 (including 30N and 30S), 40, 50, and 530 and Interstate 
        Route 80.
            (2) The Lincoln Highway played a historically significant 
        role as the first United States transcontinental highway, 
        providing motorists a paved route and allowing vast portions of 
        the country to be accessible by automobile.
            (3) The Lincoln Highway transverses the States of New York, 
        New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Ohio, Indiana, 
        Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska, Wyoming, Utah, Nevada, and California.
            (4) Although some parts of the Lincoln Highway have 
        disappeared or have been realigned, the many historic, cultural, 
        and engineering features and characteristics of the route still 
        remain.
            (5) Given the interest by organized groups and State 
        governments in the preservation of features associated with the 
        Lincoln Highway, the route's history, and its role in American 
        popular culture, a coordinated evaluation of preservation 
        options should be undertaken.

    (b) Study Required.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the National Park Service, shall coordinate a 
comprehensive study of routes comprising the Lincoln Highway. The study 
shall include an evaluation of the significance of the Lincoln Highway 
in American history, options for preservation and use of remaining 
segments of the Lincoln Highway, and options for the preservation and 
interpretation of significant features associated with the Lincoln 
Highway. The study shall also consider private sector preservation 
alternatives.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2810]]

    (c) Cooperative Effort.--The study under subsection (b) shall 
provide for the participation of representatives from each State 
traversed by the Lincoln Highway, State historic preservation offices, 
representatives of associations interested in the preservation of the 
Lincoln Highway and its features, and persons knowledgeable in American 
history, historic preservation, and popular culture.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 <<NOTE: Deadline.>> year after the 
date on which funds are first made available for the study under 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report to 
Congress containing the results of the study.

    (e) Limitation.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
authorize the Secretary of the Interior or the National Park Service to 
assume responsibility for the maintenance of any of the routes 
comprising the Lincoln Highway.
    (f ) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $500,000 to carry out this section.

    Approved December 23, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2570:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-912 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 17, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>