[106th Congress Public Law 89]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ089.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1305]]

Public Law 106-89
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To locate and secure the return of Zachary Baumel, a United States 
 citizen, and other Israeli soldiers missing in action. <<NOTE: Nov. 8, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 1175]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) Zachary Baumel, a United States citizen serving in the 
        Israeli military forces, has been missing in action since June 
        1982 when he was captured by forces affiliated with the 
        Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) following a tank 
        battle with Syrian forces at Sultan Ya'akub in Lebanon;
            (2) <<NOTE: Yehuda Katz. Zvi Feldman.>> Yehuda Katz and Zvi 
        Feldman, Israeli citizens serving in the Israeli military 
        forces, have been missing in action since June 1982 when they 
        were also captured by these same forces in a tank battle with 
        Syrian forces at Sultan Ya'akub in Lebanon;
            (3) these three soldiers were last known to be in the hands 
        of a Palestinian faction splintered from the PLO and operating 
        in Syrian-controlled territory, thus making this a matter within 
        the responsibility of the Government of Syria;
            (4) diplomatic efforts to secure the release of these 
        individuals have been unsuccessful, although PLO Chairman Yasser 
        Arafat delivered one-half of Zachary Baumel's dog tag to Israeli 
        Government authorities; and
            (5) in the Gaza-Jericho agreement between the Palestinian 
        Authority and the Government of Israel of May 4, 1994, 
        Palestinian officials agreed to cooperate with Israel in 
        locating and working for the return of Israeli soldiers missing 
        in action.

SEC. 2. ACTIONS WITH RESPECT TO MISSING SOLDIERS.

    (a) Continuing Communication with Certain Governments.--The 
Secretary of State shall continue to raise the matter of Zachary Baumel, 
Yehuda Katz, and Zvi Feldman on an urgent basis with appropriate 
government officials of Syria, Lebanon, the Palestinian Authority, and 
with other governments in the region and elsewhere that, in the 
determination of the Secretary, may be helpful in locating and securing 
the return of these soldiers.
    (b) Provision of Assistance to Certain Governments.--In deciding 
whether or not to provide United States assistance to any government or 
authority which the Secretary of State believes has information 
concerning the whereabouts of the soldiers described in subsection (a), 
and in formulating United States policy towards such government or 
authority, the President should take

[[Page 113 STAT. 1306]]

into consideration the willingness of the government or authority to 
assist in locating and securing the return of such soldiers.

SEC. 3. REPORTS BY SECRETARY <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> OF STATE.

    (a) Initial Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall prepare and submit 
to the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
written report that describes the efforts of the Secretary pursuant to 
section 2(a) and United States policies affected pursuant to section 
2(b).
    (b) Subsequent Reports.--Not later than 15 days after receiving from 
any source any additional credible information relating to the 
individuals described in section 2(a), the Secretary of State shall 
prepare and submit to the committees described in subsection (a) a 
written report that contains such additional information.
    (c) Form <<NOTE: Public information.>> of Reports.--A report 
submitted under subsection (a) or (b) shall be made available to the 
public and may include a classified annex.

    Approved November 8, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1175:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            June 22, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 5, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 26, House concurred in Senate amendments.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Nov. 9, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>