[106th Congress Public Law 367]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ367.106]


[[Page 1411]]

      NATIONAL POLICE ATHLETIC LEAGUE YOUTH ENRICHMENT ACT OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 1412]]

Public Law 106-367
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To improve academic and social <<NOTE: Oct. 27, 2000 -  [H.R. 
 3235]>> outcomes for youth and reduce both juvenile crime and the risk 
    that youth will become victims of crime by providing productive 
   activities conducted by law enforcement personnel during nonschool 
                                 hours.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Natonal Police Athletic League Youth 
Enrichment Act of 2000.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Police Athletic League Youth 
Enrichment Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The goals of the Police Athletic League are to--
                    (A) increase the academic success of youth 
                participants in PAL programs;
                    (B) promote a safe, healthy environment for youth 
                under the supervision of law enforcement personnel where 
                mutual trust and respect can be built;
                    (C) increase school attendance by providing 
                alternatives to suspensions and expulsions;
                    (D) reduce the juvenile crime rate in participating 
                designated communities and the number of police calls 
                involving juveniles during nonschool hours;
                    (E) provide youths with alternatives to drugs, 
                alcohol, tobacco, and gang activity;
                    (F) create positive communications and interaction 
                between youth and law enforcement personnel; and
                    (G) prepare youth for the workplace.
            (2) The Police Athletic League, during its 55-year history 
        as a national organization, has proven to be a positive force in 
        the communities it serves.
            (3) The Police Athletic League is a network of 1,700 
        facilities serving over 3,000 communities. There are 320 PAL 
        chapters throughout the United States, the Virgin Islands, and 
        the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, serving 1,500,000 youths, ages 
        5 to 18, nationwide.
            (4) Based on PAL chapter demographics, approximately 82 
        percent of the youths who benefit from PAL programs live in 
        inner cities and urban areas.
            (5) PAL chapters are locally operated, volunteer-driven 
        organizations. Although most PAL chapters are sponsored by a law 
        enforcement agency, PAL chapters receive no direct funding from 
        law enforcement agencies and are dependent in

[[Page 114 STAT. 1413]]

        large part on support from the private sector, such as 
        individuals, business leaders, corporations, and foundations. 
        PAL chapters have been exceptionally successful in balancing 
        public funds with private sector donations and maximizing 
        community involvement.
            (6) Today's youth face far greater risks than did their 
        parents and grandparents. Law enforcement statistics demonstrate 
        that youth between the ages of 12 and 17 are at risk of 
        committing violent acts and being victims of violent acts 
        between the hours of 3 p.m. and 8 p.m.
            (7) Greater numbers of students are dropping out of school 
        and failing in school, even though the consequences of academic 
        failure are more dire in 1999 than ever before.
            (8) Many distressed areas in the United States are still 
        underserved by PAL chapters.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to provide adequate resources in the form 
of--
            (1) assistance for the 320 established PAL chapters to 
        increase of services to the communities they are serving; and
            (2) seed money for the establishment of 250 (50 per year 
        over a 5-year period) additional local PAL chapters in public 
        housing projects and other distressed areas, including 
        distressed areas with a majority population of Native Americans, 
        by not later than fiscal year 2006.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Assistant attorney general.--The term ``Assistant 
        Attorney General'' means the Assistant Attorney General for the 
        Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice.
            (2) Distressed area.--The term ``distressed area'' means an 
        urban, suburban, or rural area with a high percentage of high-
        risk youth, as defined in section 509A of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-8(f )).
            (3) PAL chapter.--The term ``PAL chapter'' means a chapter 
        of a Police or Sheriff's Athletic/Activities League.
            (4) Police athletic league.--The term ``Police Athletic 
        League'' means the private, nonprofit, national representative 
        organization for 320 Police or Sheriff's Athletic/Activities 
        Leagues throughout the United States (including the Virgin 
        Islands and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico).
            (5) Public housing; project.--The terms ``public housing'' 
        and ``project'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
        3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437a(b)).

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> GRANTS AUTHORIZED.

    (a) In General.--Subject to appropriations, for each of fiscal years 
2001 through 2005, the Assistant Attorney General shall award a grant to 
the Police Athletic League for the purpose of establishing PAL chapters 
to serve public housing projects and other distressed areas, and 
expanding existing PAL chapters to serve additional youths.
    (b) Application.--
            (1) Submission.--In order to be eligible to receive a grant 
        under this section, the Police Athletic League shall submit

[[Page 114 STAT. 1414]]

        to the Assistant Attorney General an application, which shall 
        include--
                    (A) a long-term strategy to establish 250 additional 
                PAL chapters and detailed summary of those areas in 
                which new PAL chapters will be established, or in which 
                existing chapters will be expanded to serve additional 
                youths, during the next fiscal year;
                    (B) a <<NOTE: Deadline.>> plan to ensure that there 
                are a total of not less than 570 PAL chapters in 
                operation before January 1, 2004;
                    (C) a certification that there will be appropriate 
                coordination with those communities where new PAL 
                chapters will be located; and
                    (D) an explanation of the manner in which new PAL 
                chapters will operate without additional, direct Federal 
                financial assistance once assistance under this Act is 
                discontinued.
            (2) Review.--The <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Assistant Attorney 
        General shall review and take action on an application submitted 
        under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the date of 
        such submission.

SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> USE OF FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Assistance for new and expanded chapters.--Amounts made 
        available under a grant awarded under this Act shall be used by 
        the Police Athletic League to provide funding for the 
        establishment of PAL chapters serving public housing projects 
        and other distressed areas, or the expansion of existing PAL 
        chapters.
            (2) Program requirements.--Each new or expanded PAL chapter 
        assisted under paragraph (1) shall carry out not less than four 
        programs during nonschool hours, of which--
                    (A) not less than two programs shall provide--
                          (i) mentoring assistance;
                          (ii) academic assistance;
                          (iii) recreational and athletic activities; or
                          (iv) technology training; and
                    (B) any remaining programs shall provide--
                          (i) drug, alcohol, and gang prevention 
                      activities;
                          (ii) health and nutrition counseling;
                          (iii) cultural and social programs;
                          (iv) conflict resolution training, anger 
                      management, and peer pressure training;
                          (v) job skill preparation activities; or
                          (vi) Youth Police Athletic League Conferences 
                      or Youth Forums.

    (b) Additional Requirements.--In carrying out the programs under 
subsection (a), a PAL chapter shall, to the maximum extent practicable--
            (1) use volunteers from businesses, academic communities, 
        social organizations, and law enforcement organizations to serve 
        as mentors or to assist in other ways;
            (2) ensure that youth in the local community participate in 
        designing the after-school activities;
            (3) develop creative methods of conducting outreach to youth 
        in the community;

[[Page 114 STAT. 1415]]

            (4) request donations of computer equipment and other 
        materials and equipment; and
            (5) work with State and local park and recreation agencies 
        so that activities funded with amounts made available under a 
        grant under this Act will not duplicate activities funded from 
        other sources in the community served.

SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> REPORTS.

    (a) Report to Assistant Attorney General.--For each fiscal year for 
which a grant is awarded under this Act, the Police Athletic League 
shall submit to the Assistant Attorney General a report on the use of 
amounts made available under the grant.
    (b) Report to <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Congress.--Not later than May 1 of 
each fiscal year for which amounts are made available to carry out this 
Act, the Assistant Attorney General shall submit to the Committees on 
the Judiciary of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
that details the progress made under this Act in establishing and 
expanding PAL chapters in public housing projects and other distressed 
areas, and the effectiveness of the PAL programs in reducing drug abuse, 
school dropouts, and juvenile crime.

SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 42 USC 13751 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 through 2005.
    (b) Funding for Program Administration.--Of the amount made 
available to carry out this Act in each fiscal year--
            (1) not less than 2 percent shall be used for research and 
        evaluation of the grant program under this Act;
            (2) not less than 1 percent shall be used for technical 
        assistance related to the use of amounts made available under 
        grants awarded under this Act; and
            (3) not less than 1 percent shall be used for the management 
        and administration of the grant program under this Act, except 
        that the total amount made available under this paragraph for 
        administration of that program shall not exceed 6 percent.

    Approved October 27, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3235:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-859 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 2, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>