[106th Congress Public Law 86]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ086.106]


[[Page 1297]]

            PENNSYLVANIA BATTLEFIELDS PROTECTION ACT OF 1999

[[Page 113 STAT. 1298]]

Public Law 106-86
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize appropriations for the protection of Paoli and Brandywine 
 Battlefields in Pennsylvania, to authorize the Valley Forge Museum of 
 the American Revolution at Valley Forge National Historical Park, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 31, 1999 -  [H.R. 659]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Pennsylvania Battlefields 
Protection Act of 1999.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410aa note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Pennsylvania Battlefields Protection 
Act of 1999''.

               TITLE I--PAOLI AND BRANDYWINE BATTLEFIELDS

SEC. 101. PAOLI BATTLEFIELD PROTECTION.

    (a) Paoli Battlefield.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to provide funds to the 
borough of Malvern, Pennsylvania, for the acquisition of the area known 
as the ``Paoli Battlefield'', located in the borough of Malvern, 
Pennsylvania, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Paoli 
Battlefield'' numbered 80,000 and dated April 1999 (referred to in this 
title as the ``Paoli Battlefield''). The map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
National Park Service.
    (b) Cooperative Agreement and Technical Assistance.--The Secretary 
shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the borough of Malvern, 
Pennsylvania, for the management by the borough of the Paoli 
Battlefield. The Secretary may provide technical assistance to the 
borough of Malvern to assure the preservation and interpretation of the 
Paoli Battlefield's resources.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $1,250,000 to carry out this section. Such funds shall be 
expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds for each dollar of 
funds contributed by non-Federal sources. Any funds provided by the 
Secretary shall be subject to an agreement that provides for the 
protection of the Paoli Battlefield's resources.

SEC. 102. BRANDYWINE BATTLEFIELD PROTECTION.

    (a) Brandywine Battlefield.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to provide 
        funds to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, a political 
        subdivision of the Commonwealth, or the Brandywine Conservancy, 
        for the acquisition, protection, and preservation of land in an 
        area generally known as the Meetinghouse Road Corridor,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1299]]

        located in Chester County, Pennsylvania, as depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Brandywine Battlefield--Meetinghouse Road Corridor'', 
        numbered 80,000 and dated April 1999 (referred to in this title 
        as the ``Brandywine Battlefield''). The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the National Park Service.
            (2) Willing sellers or donors.--Lands and interests in land 
        may be acquired pursuant to this section only with the consent 
        of the owner thereof.

    (b) Cooperative Agreement and Technical Assistance.--The Secretary 
shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the same entity that is 
provided funds under subsection (a) for the management by the entity of 
the Brandywine Battlefield. The Secretary may also provide technical 
assistance to the entity to assure the preservation and interpretation 
of the Brandywine Battlefield's resources.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $3,000,000 to carry out this section. Such funds shall be 
expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds for each dollar of 
funds contributed by non-Federal sources. Any funds provided by the 
Secretary shall be subject to an agreement that provides for the 
protection of the Brandywine Battlefield's resources.

             TITLE II--VALLEY FORGE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410aa note.>> PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to authorize the Secretary of the 
Interior to enter into an agreement with the Valley Forge Historical 
Society (hereinafter referred to as the ``Society''), to construct and 
operate a museum within the boundary of Valley Forge National Historical 
Park in cooperation with the Secretary.

SEC. 202. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410aa note.>> VALLEY FORGE MUSEUM OF THE 
            AMERICAN REVOLUTION AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Agreement Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
administering the Valley Forge National Historical Park, is authorized 
to enter into an agreement under appropriate terms and conditions with 
the Society to facilitate the planning, construction, and operation of 
the Valley Forge Museum of the American Revolution on Federal land 
within the boundary of Valley Forge National Historical Park.
    (b) Contents and Implementation of Agreement.--An agreement entered 
into under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) authorize the Society to develop and operate the museum 
        pursuant to plans developed by the Secretary and to provide at 
        the museum appropriate and necessary programs and services to 
        visitors to Valley Forge National Historical Park related to the 
        story of Valley Forge and the American Revolution;
            (2) only be carried out in a manner consistent with the 
        General Management Plan and other plans for the preservation and 
        interpretation of the resources and values of Valley Forge 
        National Historical Park;
            (3) authorize the Secretary to undertake at the museum 
        activities related to the management of Valley Forge National

[[Page 113 STAT. 1300]]

        Historical Park, including, but not limited to, provision of 
        appropriate visitor information and interpretive facilities and 
        programs related to Valley Forge National Historical Park;
            (4) authorize the Society, acting as a private nonprofit 
        organization, to engage in activities appropriate for operation 
        of the museum that may include, but are not limited to, charging 
        appropriate fees, conducting events, and selling merchandise, 
        tickets, and food to visitors to the museum;
            (5) provide that the Society's revenues from the museum's 
        facilities and services shall be used to offset the expenses of 
        the museum's operation; and
            (6) authorize the Society to occupy the museum so 
        constructed for the term specified in the Agreement and subject 
        to the following terms and conditions:
                    (A) The conveyance by the Society to the United 
                States of all right, title, and interest in the museum 
                to be constructed at Valley Forge National Historical 
                Park.
                    (B) The Society's right to occupy and use the museum 
                shall be for the exhibition, preservation, and 
                interpretation of artifacts associated with the Valley 
                Forge story and the American Revolution, to enhance the 
                visitor experience of Valley Forge National Historical 
                Park, and to conduct appropriately related activities of 
                the Society consistent with its mission and with the 
                purposes for which the Valley Forge National Historical 
                Park was established. Such right shall not be 
                transferred or conveyed without the express consent of 
                the Secretary.
                    (C) Any other terms and conditions the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary.

SEC. 203. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410aa note.>> PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION.

    Nothing in this title authorizes the Secretary or the Society to 
take any actions in derogation of the preservation and protection of the 
values and resources of Valley Forge National Historical Park. An 
agreement entered into under section 202 shall be construed and 
implemented in light of the high public value and integrity of the 
Valley Forge National Historical Park and the National Park System.

    Approved October 31, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 659:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-139 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            June 22, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 18, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>