[106th Congress Public Law 157]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ157.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1743]]

Public Law 106-157
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to convey to the State of 
  Illinois <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 2737]>>  certain Federal land 
 associated with the Lewis and Clark National Historic Trail to be used 
          as an historic and interpretive site along the trail.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, LEWIS AND CLARK NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL, 
            ILLINOIS.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
convey, without consideration, to the State of Illinois all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
federally-owned land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary consisting 
of approximately 39 acres located in the north half of section 16, 
township 4 north, range 9 west, Third Principal Meridian, Madison 
County, Illinois, within the corridor of the Lewis and Clark National 
Historic Trail.
    (b) Survey; Conveyance Costs.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the 
survey and all other costs incurred by the Secretary to convey the land 
shall be borne by the State of Illinois.
    (c) Conditions of Conveyance.--
            (1) Use of conveyed land.--The conveyance authorized under 
        subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the State 
        of Illinois, acting through the Illinois Historic Preservation 
        Agency, use the conveyed land as an historic site and 
        interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National Historic 
        Trail.
            (2) Plan for development and 
        operation <<NOTE: Deadline. Public review.>>  of site.--The 
        conveyance authorized under subsection (a) shall be subject to 
        the further condition that the Governor of the State of Illinois 
        develop, within 2 years after the date of the conveyance, a plan 
        for the development and operation of the historic site and 
        interpretive center proposed for the conveyed land. In 
        developing the plan, the Governor shall provide an opportunity 
        for review and comment by the Secretary and the public.

    (d) Discontinuance of Use.--If the State of Illinois determines to 
discontinue use of the land conveyed under subsection (a) as an historic 
site and interpretive center for the Lewis and Clark National Historic 
Trail, the State of Illinois shall convey the lands back to the 
Secretary without consideration.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with

[[Page 113 STAT. 1744]]

the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
    (f ) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2737:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-427 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Nov. 1, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>