[106th Congress Private Law 13]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl013.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3107]]

Private Law 106-13
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Saeed Rezai. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [H.R. 5266]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR SAEED REZAI.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Saeed Rezai shall be 
eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon 
filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Saeed Rezai enters the United States 
before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), he shall be 
considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise 
eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 2. REDUCTION OF IMMIGRANT VISA NUMBER.

    Upon the granting of an immigrant visa or permanent residence to 
Saeed Rezai, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to 
reduce by one, during the current or next following fiscal year, the 
total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives of 
the country of the alien's birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of the alien's 
birth under section 202(e) of such Act.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3108]]

SEC. 3. DENIAL OF PREFERENTIAL IMMIGRATION TREATMENT FOR CERTAIN 
            RELATIVES.

    The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Saeed Rezai shall not, 
by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, privilege, or 
status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

    Approved November 9, 2000.