[106th Congress Public Law 45]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ045.106]


[[Page 223]]

                           ROUTE 66 CORRIDOR,
                          HISTORIC PRESERVATION

[[Page 113 STAT. 224]]

Public Law 106-45
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To preserve the cultural resources of the Route 66 <<NOTE: Aug. 10, 
  1999 -  [H.R. 66]>>  corridor and to authorize the Secretary of the 
                     Interior to provide assistance.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Historic 
preservation.>> 

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> 

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Route 66 corridor.--The term ``Route 66 corridor'' means 
        structures and other cultural resources described in paragraph 
        (3), including--
                    (A) lands owned by the Federal Government and lands 
                owned by a State or local government within the 
                immediate vicinity of those portions of the highway 
                formerly designated as United States Route 66; and
                    (B) private land within that immediate vicinity that 
                is owned by persons or entities that are willing to 
                participate in the programs authorized by this Act.
            (2) Cultural resource programs.--The term ``Cultural 
        Resource Programs'' means the programs established and 
        administered by the National Park Service for the benefit of and 
        in support of preservation of the Route 66 corridor, either 
        directly or indirectly.
            (3) Preservation of the route 66 corridor.--The term 
        ``preservation of the Route 66 corridor'' means the preservation 
        or restoration of structures or other cultural resources of 
        businesses, sites of interest, and other contributing resources 
        that--
                    (A) are located within the land described in para-
                graph (1);
                    (B) existed during the route's period of outstanding 
                historic significance (principally between 1926 and 
                1970), as defined by the study prepared by the National 
                Park Service and entitled ``Special Resource Study of 
                Route 66'', dated July 1995; and
                    (C) remain in existence as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Cultural Resource Programs 
        at the National Park Service.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means a State in which a 
        portion of the Route 66 corridor is located.

[[Page 113 STAT. 225]]

SEC. 2. MANAGEMENT. <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> 

    (a) <<NOTE: Guidelines.>>  In General.--The Secretary, in 
collaboration with the entities described in subsection (c), shall 
facilitate the development of guidelines and a program of technical 
assistance and grants that will set priorities for the preservation of 
the Route 66 corridor.

    (b) Designation of Officials.--The Secretary shall designate 
officials of the National Park Service stationed at locations convenient 
to the States to perform the functions of the Cultural Resource Programs 
under this Act.
    (c) General Functions.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) support efforts of State and local public and private 
        persons, nonprofit Route 66 preservation entities, Indian 
        tribes, State Historic Preservation Offices, and entities in the 
        States for the preservation of the Route 66 corridor by 
        providing technical assistance, participating in cost-sharing 
        programs, and making grants;
            (2) act as a clearinghouse for communication among Federal, 
        State, and local agencies, nonprofit Route 66 preservation 
        entities, Indian tribes, State historic preservation offices, 
        and private persons and entities interested in the preservation 
        of the Route 66 corridor; and
            (3) assist the States in determining the appropriate form of 
        and establishing and supporting a non-Federal entity or entities 
        to perform the functions of the Cultural Resource Programs after 
        those programs are terminated.

    (d) Authorities.--In carrying out this Act, the Secretary may--
            (1) enter into cooperative agreements, including (but not 
        limited to) cooperative agreements for study, planning, 
        preservation, rehabilitation, and restoration related to the 
        Route 66 corridor;
            (2) accept donations of funds, equipment, supplies, and 
        services as appropriate;
            (3) provide cost-share grants for projects for the 
        preservation of the Route 66 corridor (but not to exceed 50 
        percent of total project costs) and information about existing 
        cost-share opportunities;
            (4) provide technical assistance in historic preservation 
        and interpretation of the Route 66 corridor; and
            (5) coordinate, promote, and stimulate research by other 
        persons and entities regarding the Route 66 corridor.

    (e) Preservation Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide assistance in 
        the preservation of the Route 66 corridor in a manner that is 
        compatible with the idiosyncratic nature of the Route 66 
        corridor.
            (2) Planning.--The Secretary shall not prepare or require 
        preparation of an overall management plan for the Route 66 
        corridor, but shall cooperate with the States and local public 
        and private persons and entities, State historic preservation 
        offices, nonprofit Route 66 preservation entities, and Indian 
        tribes in developing local preservation plans to guide efforts 
        to protect the most important or representative resources of the 
        Route 66 corridor.

[[Page 113 STAT. 226]]

SEC. 3. RESOURCE TREATMENT. <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> 

    (a) Technical Assistance Program.--
            (1) Program required.--The Secretary shall develop a program 
        of technical assistance in the preservation of the Route 66 
        corridor and interpretation of the Route 66 corridor.
            (2) Program guidelines.--As part of the technical assistance 
        program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall establish 
        guidelines for setting priorities for preservation needs for the 
        Route 66 corridor. The Secretary shall base the guidelines on 
        the Secretary's standards for historic preservation.

    (b) Program for Coordination of Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall coordinate a program of 
        historic research, curation, preservation strategies, and the 
        collection of oral and video histories of events that occurred 
        along the Route 66 corridor.
            (2) Design.--The program under paragraph (1) shall be 
        designed for continuing use and implementation by other 
        organizations after the Cultural Resource Programs are 
        terminated.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> 

    There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for the period 
of fiscal years 2000 through 2009 to carry out the purposes of this Act.

    Approved August 10, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 66 (S. 292):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-137 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-20 accompanying S. 292 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            June 30, considered and passed House.
            July 27, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>