[106th Congress Public Law 214]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ214.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 335]]

Public Law 106-214
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To amend the law that authorized the Vietnam Veterans Memorial to 
 authorize the placement within the site of the memorial of a plaque to 
honor those Vietnam veterans who died after their service in the Vietnam 
     war, but as a direct result of that service. <<NOTE: June 15, 
                         2000 -  [H.R. 3293]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. ADDITION OF COMMEMORATIVE PLAQUE, VIETNAM VETERANS MEMORIAL.

    Public Law 96-297 (94 Stat. 827; 16 U.S.C. 431 note), which 
authorized the Vietnam Veterans Memorial in the District of Columbia, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 5. PLAQUE TO HONOR OTHER VIETNAM VETERANS WHO DIED AS A RESULT OF 
            SERVICE IN THE VIETNAM WAR.

    ``(a) Plaque Authorized.--Notwithstanding section 3(c) of the 
Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1003(c)), the American Battle 
Monuments Commission is authorized to place within the Vietnam Veterans 
Memorial a suitable plaque containing an inscription intended to honor 
those Vietnam veterans who died after their service in the Vietnam war, 
but as a direct result of that service, and whose names are not 
otherwise eligible for placement on the memorial wall.
    ``(b) Specifications.--The plaque shall be at least 6 square feet in 
size and not larger than 18 square feet in size, and of whatever shape 
as the American Battle Monuments Commission determines to be appropriate 
for the site. The plaque shall bear an inscription prepared by the 
American Battle Monuments Commission.
    ``(c) Relation to Commemorative Works Act.--Except as provided in 
subsection (a), the Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.) 
shall apply to the design and placement of the plaque within the site of 
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial.
    ``(d) Consultation.--In designing the plaque, preparing the 
inscription, and selecting the specific location for the plaque within 
the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, the American Battle Monuments Commission 
shall consult with the architects of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund, 
Inc., and the Vietnam Women's Memorial, Inc.
    ``(e) Funds for Plaque.--
            ``(1) Prohibition on use of federal funds.--Federal funds 
        may not be used to design, procure, or install the plaque. 
        However, the preceding sentence does not apply to the payment

[[Page 114 STAT. 336]]

        of the salaries, expenses, and other benefits otherwise 
        authorized by law for members of the American Battle Monuments 
        Commission or other personnel (including detailees) of the 
        American Battle Monuments Commission who carry out this section.
            ``(2) Private fundraising authority.--The American Battle 
        Monuments Commission shall solicit and accept private 
        contributions for the design, procurement, and installation of 
        the plaque. The American Battle Monuments Commission shall 
        establish an account into which the contributions will be 
        deposited and shall maintain documentation of the contributions. 
        Contributions in excess of the amounts necessary for the design, 
        procurement, and installation of the plaque shall be deposited 
        in the United States Treasury.

    ``(f ) Vietnam Veterans Memorial Defined.--In this section, the term 
`Vietnam Veterans Memorial' means the structures and adjacent areas 
extending to and bounded by the south curb of Constitution Avenue on the 
north, the east curb of Henry Bacon Drive on the west, the north side of 
the north Reflecting Pool walkway on the south and a line drawn 
perpendicular to Constitution Avenue 200 feet from the east tip of the 
memorial wall on the east (this is also a line extended from the east 
side of the western concrete border of the steps to the west of the 
center steps to the Federal Reserve Building extending to the Reflecting 
pool walkway). This is the same definition used by the National Park 
Service as of the date of the enactment of this section, as contained in 
section 7.96(g)(1)(x) of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.''.

    Approved June 15, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3293:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-585 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            May 9, considered and passed House.
            May 25, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>