[106th Congress Public Law 173]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ173.106]


[[Page 13]]

               ABRAHAM LINCOLN BICENTENNIAL COMMISSION ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 14]]

Public Law 106-173
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission. <<NOTE: Feb. 
                       25, 2000 -  [H.R. 1451]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Abraham Lincoln 
Bicentennial Commission Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 101.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial 
Commission Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Abraham Lincoln, the 16th President, was one of the 
        Nation's most prominent leaders, demonstrating true courage 
        during the Civil War, one of the greatest crises in the Nation's 
        history.
            (2) Born of humble roots in Hardin County, Kentucky, on 
        February 12, 1809, Abraham Lincoln rose to the Presidency 
        through a legacy of honesty, integrity, intelligence, and 
        commitment to the United States.
            (3) With the belief that all men were created equal, Abraham 
        Lincoln led the effort to free all slaves in the United States.
            (4) Abraham Lincoln had a generous heart, with malice toward 
        none and with charity for all.
            (5) Abraham Lincoln gave the ultimate sacrifice for the 
        country Lincoln loved, dying from an assassin's bullet on April 
        15, 1865.
            (6) All Americans could benefit from studying the life of 
        Abraham Lincoln, for Lincoln's life is a model for accomplishing 
        the ``American Dream'' through honesty, integrity, loyalty, and 
        a lifetime of education.
            (7) The year 2009 will be the bicentennial anniversary of 
        the birth of Abraham Lincoln, and a commission should be 
        established to study and recommend to Congress activities that 
        are fitting and proper to celebrate that anniversary in a manner 
        that appropriately honors Abraham Lincoln.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a commission to be known as the Abraham Lincoln 
Bicentennial Commission (referred to in this Act as the ``Commission'').

SEC. 4. DUTIES.

    The Commission shall have the following duties:

[[Page 114 STAT. 15]]

            (1) To study activities that may be carried out by the 
        Federal Government to determine whether the activities are 
        fitting and proper to honor Abraham Lincoln on the occasion of 
        the bicentennial anniversary of Lincoln's birth, including--
                    (A) the minting of an Abraham Lincoln bicentennial 
                penny;
                    (B) the issuance of an Abraham Lincoln bicentennial 
                postage stamp;
                    (C) the convening of a joint meeting or joint 
                session of Congress for ceremonies and activities 
                relating to Abraham Lincoln;
                    (D) a redesignation of the Lincoln Memorial, or 
                other activity with respect to the Memorial; and
                    (E) the acquisition and preservation of artifacts 
                associated with Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) To recommend to Congress the activities that the 
        Commission considers most fitting and proper to honor Abraham 
        Lincoln on such occasion, and the entity or entities in the 
        Federal Government that the Commission considers most 
        appropriate to carry out such activities.

SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP. <<NOTE: Congress. President.>> 

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of 15 
members appointed as follows:
            (1) Two members, each of whom shall be a qualified citizen 
        described in subsection (b), appointed by the President.
            (2) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Illinois.
            (3) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Indiana.
            (4) One member, who shall be a qualified citizen described 
        in subsection (b), appointed by the President on the 
        recommendation of the Governor of Kentucky.
            (5) Three members, at least one of whom shall be a Member of 
        the House of Representatives, appointed by the Speaker of the 
        House of Representatives.
            (6) Three members, at least one of whom shall be a Senator, 
        appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.
            (7) Two members, at least one of whom shall be a Member of 
        the House of Representatives, appointed by the minority leader 
        of the House of Representatives.
            (8) Two members, at least one of whom shall be a Senator, 
        appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.

    (b) Qualified Citizen.--A qualified citizen described in this 
subsection is a private citizen of the United States with--
            (1) a demonstrated dedication to educating others about the 
        importance of historical figures and events; and
            (2) substantial knowledge and appreciation of Abraham 
        Lincoln.

    (c) Time of Appointment.--Each initial appointment of a member of 
the Commission shall be made before the expiration of the 120-day period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Continuation of Membership.--If a member of the Commission was 
appointed to the Commission as a Member of

[[Page 114 STAT. 16]]

Congress, and ceases to be a Member of Congress, that member may 
continue to serve on the Commission for not longer than the 30-day 
period beginning on the date that member ceases to be a Member of 
Congress.
    (e) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for the life of the 
Commission.
    (f ) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall not affect the 
powers of the Commission but shall be filled in the manner in which the 
original appointment was made.
    (g) Basic Pay.--Members shall serve on the Commission without pay.
    (h) Travel Expenses.--Each member shall receive travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 
5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    (i) Quorum.--Five members of the Commission shall constitute a 
quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
    ( j) Chair.--The Commission shall select a Chair from among the 
members of the Commission.
    (k) <<NOTE: Illinois.>>  Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the 
call of the Chair. Periodically, the Commission shall hold a meeting in 
Springfield, Illinois.

SEC. 6. DIRECTOR AND STAFF.

    (a) Director.--The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of a 
Director and such additional personnel as the Commission considers to be 
appropriate.
    (b) Applicability of Certain Civil Service Laws.--
            (1) Director.--The Director of the Commission may be 
        appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United 
        States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, 
        and may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 
        and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (2) Staff.--The staff of the Commission shall be appointed 
        subject to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service, and shall be 
        paid in accordance with the provisions of chapter 51 and 
        subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.

SEC. 7. POWERS.

    (a) Hearings and Sessions.--The Commission may, for the purpose of 
carrying out this Act, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and 
places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the Commission 
considers to be appropriate.
    (b) Powers of Members and Agents.--Any member or agent of the 
Commission may, if authorized by the Commission, take any action that 
the Commission is authorized to take by this Act.
    (c) Obtaining Official Data.--The Commission may secure directly 
from any department or agency of the United States information necessary 
to enable the Commission to carry out this Act. Upon request of the 
Chair of the Commission, the head of that department or agency shall 
furnish that information to the Commission.
    (d) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and 
agencies of the United States.

[[Page 114 STAT. 17]]

    (e) Administrative Support Services.--Upon the request of the 
Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the 
Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services 
necessary for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities under 
this Act.

SEC. 8. REPORTS.

    (a) Interim Reports.--The Commission may submit to Congress such 
interim reports as the Commission considers to be appropriate.
    (b) Final Report. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> --The Commission shall submit 
a final report to Congress not later than the expiration of the 4-year 
period beginning on the date of the formation of the Commission. The 
final report shall contain--
            (1) a detailed statement of the findings and conclusions of 
        the Commission;
            (2) the recommendations of the Commission; and
            (3) any other information that the Commission considers to 
        be appropriate.

SEC. 9. BUDGET ACT COMPLIANCE.

    Any spending authority provided under this Act shall be effective 
only to such extent and in such amounts as are provided in appropriation 
Acts.

SEC. 10. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate 120 days after submitting the final 
report of the Commission pursuant to section 8.

SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.

    Approved February 25, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1451:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Oct. 4, considered and passed House.
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Feb. 8, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>