[106th Congress Public Law 481]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ481.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2187]]

Public Law 106-481
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish revolving funds for the operation of certain programs and 
          activities of the Library of Congress, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [H.R. 5410]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Library of Congress Fiscal 
Operations Improvement Act of 2000.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182a note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Library of Congress Fiscal Operations 
Improvement Act of 2000''.

              TITLE I--LIBRARY OF CONGRESS REVOLVING FUNDS

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182a.>>  REVOLVING FUND FOR AUDIO AND VIDEO 
            DUPLICATION SERVICES ASSOCIATED WITH AUDIOVISUAL 
            CONSERVATION CENTER.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the Treasury a 
revolving fund for audio and video duplication and delivery services 
provided by the Librarian of Congress (hereafter in this Act referred to 
as the ``Librarian'') which are associated with the national audiovisual 
conservation center established under the Act entitled ``An Act to 
authorize acquisition of certain real property for the Library of 
Congress, and for other purposes'', approved December 15, 1997 (Public 
Law 105-144; 2 U.S.C. 141 note).
    (b) Fees for Services.--The Librarian may charge a fee for providing 
services described in subsection (a), and shall deposit any such fees 
charged into the revolving fund under this section.
    (c) Contents of Fund.--
            (1) In general.--The revolving fund under this section shall 
        consist of the following amounts:
                    (A) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) Any other amounts received by the Librarian 
                which are attributable to the services described in 
                subsection (a).
                    (C) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                paragraph (2).
                    (D) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under 
                law.
            (2) Deposit of funds during transition.--The Librarian shall 
        transfer to the revolving fund under this section the following:

[[Page 114 STAT. 2188]]

                    (A) Any obligated, unexpended balances existing as 
                of the date of the transfer which are attributable to 
                the services described in subsection (a).
                    (B) An amount equal to the difference as of such 
                date between--
                          (i) the total value of the supplies, 
                      inventories, equipment, gift fund balances, and 
                      other assets attributable to such services; and
                          (ii) the total value of the liabilities 
                      attributable to such services.

    (d) Use of Amounts in Fund.--Amounts in the revolving fund under 
this section shall be available to the Librarian, in amounts specified 
in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year limitation, to carry out 
the services described in subsection (a).

SEC. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182b.>>  102. REVOLVING FUND FOR GIFT SHOP, DECIMAL 
            CLASSIFICATION, PHOTO DUPLICATION, AND RELATED SERVICES.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the Treasury a 
revolving fund for the following programs and activities of the 
Librarian:
            (1) Decimal classification development.
            (2) The operation of a gift shop or other sales of items 
        associated with collections, exhibits, performances, and special 
        events of the Library of Congress.
            (3) Document reproduction and microfilming services.

    (b) Individual Accounting Requirement.--A separate account shall be 
maintained in the revolving fund under this section with respect to the 
programs and activities described in each of the paragraphs of 
subsection (a).
    (c) Fees for Services.--The Librarian may charge a fee for services 
under any of the programs and activities described in subsection (a), 
and shall deposit any such fees charged into the account of the 
revolving fund under this section for such program or activity.
    (d) Contents of Accounts in Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Each account of the revolving fund under 
        this section shall consist of the following amounts:
                    (A) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                subsection (c).
                    (B) Any other amounts received by the Librarian 
                which are attributable to the programs and activities 
                covered by such account.
                    (C) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                paragraph (2).
                    (D) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under 
                law.
            (2) Deposit of funds during transition.--The Librarian shall 
        transfer to each account of the revolving fund under this 
        section the following:
                    (A) Any obligated, unexpended balances existing as 
                of the date of the transfer which are attributable to 
                the programs and activities covered by such account.
                    (B) An amount equal to the difference as of such 
                date between--
                          (i) the total value of the supplies, 
                      inventories, equipment, gift fund balances, and 
                      other assets attributable to such programs and 
                      activities; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 2189]]

                          (ii) the total value of the liabilities 
                      attributable to such programs and activities.

    (e) Use of Amounts.--Amounts in the accounts of the revolving fund 
under this section shall be available to the Librarian, in amounts 
specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year limitation, to 
carry out the programs and activities covered by such accounts.

SEC. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182c.>>  103. REVOLVING FUND FOR FEDLINK PROGRAM AND 
            FEDERAL RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established in the Treasury a 
revolving fund for the Federal Library and Information Network program 
(hereafter in this Act referred to as the ``FEDLINK program'') of the 
Library of Congress (as described in subsection (f )(1)) and the Federal 
Research program of the Library of Congress (as described in subsection 
(f )(2)).
    (b) Individual Accounting Requirement.--A separate account shall be 
maintained in the revolving fund under this section with respect to the 
programs described in subsection (a).
    (c) Fees for Services.--
            (1) In general.--The Librarian may charge a fee for services 
        under the FEDLINK program and the Federal Research program, and 
        shall deposit any such fees charged into the account of the 
        revolving fund under this section for such program.
            (2) Advances of funds.--Participants in the FEDLINK program 
        and the Federal Research program shall pay for products and 
        services of the program by advance of funds--
                    (A) if the Librarian determines that amounts in the 
                Revolving Fund are otherwise insufficient to cover the 
                costs of providing such products and services; or
                    (B) upon agreement between participants and the 
                Librarian.

    (d) Contents of Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Each account of the revolving fund under 
        this section shall consist of the following amounts:
                    (A) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                subsection (c).
                    (B) Any other amounts received by the Librarian 
                which are attributable to the program covered by such 
                account.
                    (C) Amounts deposited by the Librarian under 
                paragraph (2).
                    (D) Such other amounts as may be appropriated under 
                law.
            (2) Deposit of funds during transition.--Notwithstanding 
        section 1535(d) of title 31, United States Code, the Librarian 
        shall transfer to the appropriate account of the revolving fund 
        under this section the following:
                    (A) Any obligated, unexpended balances existing as 
                of the date of the transfer which are attributable to 
                the FEDLINK program or the Federal Research program.
                    (B) An amount equal to the difference as of such 
                date between--
                          (i) the total value of the supplies, 
                      inventories, equipment, gift fund balances, and 
                      other assets attributable to such program; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 2190]]

                          (ii) the total value of the liabilities 
                      attributable to such program.

    (e) Use of Amounts in Fund.--Amounts in the accounts of the 
revolving fund under this section shall be available to the Librarian, 
in amounts specified in appropriations Acts and without fiscal year 
limitation, to carry out the program covered by each such account.
    (f ) Programs Described.--
            (1) FEDLINK.--In this section, the ``FEDLINK program'' is 
        the program of the Library of Congress under which the Librarian 
        provides the following services on behalf of participating 
        Federal libraries, Federal information centers, other entities 
        of the Federal Government, and the District of Columbia:
                    (A) The procurement of commercial information 
                services, publications in any format, and library 
                support services.
                    (B) Related accounting services.
                    (C) Related education, information, and support 
                services.
            (2) Federal research program.--In this section, the 
        ``Federal Research program'' is the program of the Library of 
        Congress under which the Librarian provides research reports, 
        translations, and analytical studies for entities of the Federal 
        Government and the District of Columbia (other than any program 
        of the Congressional Research Service).

SEC. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182d.>>  104. AUDITS BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL.

    Each of the revolving funds established under this title shall be 
subject to audit by the Comptroller General at the Comptroller General's 
discretion.

SEC. <<NOTE: 2 USC 182a note.>>  105. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The provisions of this title shall apply with respect to fiscal year 
2002 and each succeeding fiscal year.

             TITLE II--LIBRARY OF CONGRESS TRUST FUND BOARD

SEC. 201. REVISIONS TO MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATION OF LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 
            TRUST FUND BOARD.

    (a) Addition of Vice Chair of Joint Committee on the Library as 
Board Member.--Section 1 of the Act entitled ``An Act to create a 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, and for other purposes'', approved 
March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 154), is amended in the first sentence of the 
first paragraph by inserting ``and the vice chair'' after ``chairman''.
    (b) Quorum Requirement.--Section 1 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 154) is 
amended in the second sentence of the first paragraph by striking 
``Nine'' and inserting ``Seven''.
    (c) Temporary Extension of Board Member Term.--Section 1 of such Act 
(2 U.S.C. 154) is amended in the first paragraph by inserting after the 
first sentence the following: ``Upon request of the chair of the Board, 
any member whose term has expired may continue to serve on the Trust 
Fund Board until the earlier of the date on which such member's 
successor is appointed or


[[Page 114 STAT. 2191]]

the expiration of the 1-year period which begins on the date such 
member's term expires.''.

SEC. <<NOTE: 2 USC 154 note.>>  202. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    The amendments made by this title shall take effect on the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

    Approved November 9, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5410:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 17, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 31, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>