[106th Congress Public Law 136]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ136.106]

              PERKINS COUNTY RURAL WATER SYSTEM ACT OF 1999
Public Law 106-136
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to provide assistance to the 
 Perkins County Rural Water System, Inc., for the construction of water 
   supply facilities in Perkins County, South Dakota. <<NOTE: Dec. 7, 
                          1999 -  [H.R. 970]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Perkins County Rural Water System 
Act of 1999.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Perkins County Rural Water System Act 
of 1999''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1977, the North Dakota State Legislature authorized 
        and directed the State Water Commission to conduct the Southwest 
        Area Water Supply Study, which included water service to a 
        portion of Perkins County, South Dakota;
            (2) amendments made by the Garrison Diversion Unit 
        Reformulation Act of 1986 (Public Law 101-294) authorized the 
        Southwest Pipeline project as an eligible project for Federal 
        cost share participation; and
            (3) the Perkins County Rural Water System has continued to 
        be recognized by the State of North Dakota, the Southwest Water 
        Authority, the North Dakota Water Commission, the Department of 
        the Interior, and Congress as a component of the Southwest 
        Pipeline Project.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Corporation.--The term ``Corporation'' means the Perkins 
        County Rural Water System, Inc., a nonprofit corporation 
        established and operated under the laws of the State of South 
        Dakota substantially in accordance with the feasibility study.
            (2) Feasibility study.--The term ``feasibility study'' means 
        the study entitled ``Feasibility Study for Rural Water System 
        for Perkins County Rural Water System, Inc.'', as amended in 
        March 1995.
            (3) Project construction budget.--The term ``project 
        construction budget'' means the description of the total amount 
        of funds that are needed for the construction of the water 
        supply system, as described in the feasibility study.
            (4) Pumping and incidental operational requirements.--The 
        term ``pumping and incidental operational requirements'' means 
        all power requirements that are incidental to the operation of 
        the water supply system by the Corporation.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of the Bureau 
        of Reclamation.
            (6) Water supply system.--The term ``water supply system'' 
        means intake facilities, pumping stations, water treatment 
        facilities, cooling facilities, reservoirs, and pipelines 
        operated by the Perkins County Rural Water System, Inc., to the 
        point of delivery of water to each entity that distributes water 
        at retail to individual users.

SEC. 4. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.

    (a) In <<NOTE: Grants.>> General.--The Secretary shall make grants 
to the 
Corporation for the Federal share of the costs of--
            (1) the planning and construction of the water supply 
        system; and
            (2) repairs to existing public water distribution systems to 
        ensure conservation of the resources and to make the systems 
        functional under the new water supply system.

    (b) Limitation on Availability of Construction Funds.--The Secretary 
shall not obligate funds for the construction of the water supply system 
until--
            (1) the requirements of the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) are met with respect to the 
        water supply system; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Report. Deadline.>> a final engineering report 
        and a plan for a water conservation program have been prepared 
        and submitted to Congress for a period of not less than 90 days 
        before the commencement of construction of the system.

SEC. 5. MITIGATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE LOSSES.

    Mitigation of fish and wildlife losses incurred as a result of the 
construction and operation of the water supply system shall be on an 
acre-for-acre basis, based on ecological equivalency, concurrent with 
project construction, as provided in the feasibility study.

SEC. 6. USE OF PICK-SLOAN POWER.

    For <<NOTE: Effective dates.>> operation during the period beginning 
May 1 and ending October 31 of each year, portions of the water supply 
system constructed with assistance under this Act shall be eligible to 
utilize power from the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program established by 
section 9 of the Act of December 22, 1944 (chapter 665; 58 Stat. 887), 
popularly known as the Flood Control Act of 1944.

SEC. 7. FEDERAL SHARE.

    The Federal share under section 4 shall be 75 percent of--
            (1) the amount allocated in the total project construction 
        budget for the planning and construction of the water supply 
        system under section 4; and
            (2) such sums as are necessary to defray increases in 
        development costs reflected in appropriate engineering cost 
        indices after March 1, 1995.

SEC. 8. NON-FEDERAL SHARE.

    The non-Federal share under section 4 shall be 25 percent of--
            (1) the amount allocated in the total project construction 
        budget for the planning and construction of the water supply 
        system under section 4; and
            (2) such sums as are necessary to defray increases in 
        development costs reflected in appropriate engineering cost 
        indices after March 1, 1995.

SEC. 9. CONSTRUCTION OVERSIGHT.

    (a) Authorization.--At the request of the Corporation, the Secretary 
may provide to the Corporation assistance in overseeing matters relating 
to construction of the water supply system.
    (b) Project Oversight Administration.--The amount of funds used by 
the Secretary for planning and construction of the water supply system 
may not exceed an amount equal to 3 percent of the amount provided in 
the total project construction budget for the portion of the project to 
be constructed in Perkins County, South Dakota.

SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary--
            (1) $15,000,000 for the planning and construction of the 
        water supply system under section 4; and
            (2) such sums as are necessary to defray increases in 
        development costs reflected in appropriate engineering cost 
        indices after March 1, 1995.

    Approved December 7, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 970:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-405 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 26, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>