[106th Congress Public Law 146]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ146.106]


[[Page 1713]]

                 THOMAS COLE NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE ACT

[[Page 113 STAT. 1714]]

Public Law 106-146
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To establish <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [H.R. 658]>>  the Thomas Cole 
National Historic Site in the State of New York as an affiliated area of 
                        the National Park System.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Thomas Cole National 
Historic Site Act. 16 USC 461 note.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Thomas Cole 
National Historic Site Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 4. Establishment of Thomas Cole National Historic Site.
Sec. 5. Retention of ownership and management of historic site by Greene 
           County Historical Society.
Sec. 6. Administration of historic site.
Sec. 7. Authorization of appropriations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) The term ``historic site'' means the Thomas Cole 
        National Historic Site established by section 4 of this Act.
            (2) The term ``Hudson River artists'' means artists who were 
        associated with the Hudson River school of landscape painting.
            (3) The term ``plan'' means the general management plan 
        developed pursuant to section 6(d).
            (4) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (5) The term ``Society'' means the Greene County Historical 
        Society of Greene County, New York, which owns the Thomas Cole 
        home, studio, and other property comprising the historic site.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Hudson River school of landscape painting was 
        inspired by Thomas Cole and was characterized by a group of 19th 
        century landscape artists who recorded and celebrated the 
        landscape and wilderness of America, particularly in the Hudson 
        River Valley region in the State of New York.
            (2) Thomas Cole is recognized as America's most prominent 
        landscape and allegorical painter of the mid-19th century.
            (3) Located in Greene County, New York, the Thomas Cole 
        House, also known as Thomas Cole's Cedar Grove, is

[[Page 113 STAT. 1715]]

        listed on the National Register of Historic Places and has been 
        designated as a National Historic Landmark.
            (4) Within a 15 mile radius of the Thomas Cole House, an 
        area that forms a key part of the rich cultural and natural 
        heritage of the Hudson River Valley region, significant 
        landscapes and scenes painted by Thomas Cole and other Hudson 
        River artists, such as Frederic Church, survive intact.
            (5) The State of New York has established the Hudson River 
        Valley Greenway to promote the preservation, public use, and 
        enjoyment of the natural and cultural resources of the Hudson 
        River Valley region.
            (6) Establishment of the Thomas Cole National Historic Site 
        will provide opportunities for the illustration and 
        interpretation of cultural themes of the heritage of the United 
        States and unique opportunities for education, public use, and 
        enjoyment.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to preserve and interpret the home and studio of Thomas 
        Cole for the benefit, inspiration, and education of the people 
        of the United States;
            (2) to help maintain the integrity of the setting in the 
        Hudson River Valley region that inspired artistic expression;
            (3) to coordinate the interpretive, preservation, and 
        recreational efforts of Federal, State, and other entities in 
        the Hudson Valley region in order to enhance opportunities for 
        education, public use, and enjoyment; and
            (4) to broaden understanding of the Hudson River Valley 
        region and its role in American history and culture.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF THOMAS COLE NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established, as an affiliated area of 
the National Park System, the Thomas Cole National Historic Site in the 
State of New York.
    (b) Description.--The historic site shall consist of the home and 
studio of Thomas Cole, comprising approximately 3.4 acres, located at 
218 Spring Street, in the village of Catskill, New York, as generally 
depicted on the boundary map numbered TCH/80002, and dated March 1992.

SEC. 5. RETENTION OF OWNERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT OF HISTORIC SITE BY GREENE 
            COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY.

    The Greene County Historical Society of Greene County, New York, 
shall continue to own, administer, manage, and operate the historic 
site.

SEC. 6. ADMINISTRATION OF HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Applicability of National Park System Laws.--The historic site 
shall be administered in a manner consistent with this Act and all laws 
generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the 
Act of August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.; commonly known as the 
National Park Service Organic Act), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 
U.S.C. 461 et seq.; commonly known as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and 
Antiquities Act).
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--
            (1) Assistance to society.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the Society to preserve the Thomas 
        Cole House and other structures in the historic site and to

[[Page 113 STAT. 1716]]

        assist with education programs and research and interpretation 
        of the Thomas Cole House and associated landscapes.
            (2) Other assistance.--To further the purposes of this Act, 
        the Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the 
        State of New York, the Society, the Thomas Cole Foundation, and 
        other public and private entities to facilitate public 
        understanding and enjoyment of the lives and works of the Hudson 
        River artists through the provision of assistance to develop, 
        present, and fund art exhibits, resident artist programs, and 
        other appropriate activities related to the preservation, 
        interpretation, and use of the historic site.

    (c) Artifacts and Property.--The Secretary may acquire personal 
property associated with, and appropriate for, the interpretation of the 
historic site.
    (d) General <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Management Plan.--Within two 
complete fiscal years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall develop a general management plan for the historic site 
with the cooperation of the Society. Upon the completion of the plan, 
the Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives. The plan shall include 
recommendations for regional wayside exhibits, to be carried out through 
cooperative agreements with the State of New York and other public and 
private entities. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 
12(b) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-1 et seq.; commonly known as 
the National Park System General Authorities Act).

SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 658 (S. 140):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-138 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-89 accompanying S. 140 (Comm. on Energy and 
Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Sept. 13, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>