[106th Congress Public Law 309]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ309.106]


[[Page 1077]]

MICROENTERPRISE FOR SELF-RELIANCE AND INTERNATIONAL ANTI-CORRUPTION ACT 
                                 OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 1078]]

Public Law 106-309
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To establish a program to provide assistance for programs of credit and 
 other financial services for microenterprises in developing countries, 
                             and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 17, 2000 -  [H.R. 1143]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Microenterprise for Self-
Reliance and International Anti-Corruption Act of 2000.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Microenterprise for Self-Reliance and 
International Anti-Corruption Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

         TITLE I--MICROENTERPRISE FOR SELF-RELIANCE ACT OF 2000

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Findings and declarations of policy.
Sec. 103. Purposes.
Sec. 104. Definitions.
Sec. 105. Microenterprise development grant assistance.
Sec. 106. Micro- and small enterprise development credits.
Sec. 107. United States Microfinance Loan Facility.
Sec. 108. Report relating to future development of microenterprise 
           institutions.
Sec. 109. United States Agency for International Development as global 
           leader and coordinator of bilateral and multilateral 
           microenterprise assistance 
           activities.
Sec. 110. Sense of the Congress on consideration of Mexico as a key 
           priority in microenterprise funding allocations.

 TITLE II--INTERNATIONAL ANTI-CORRUPTION AND GOOD GOVERNANCE ACT OF 2000

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 203. Development assistance policy.
Sec. 204. Department of the Treasury technical assistance program for 
           developing countries.
Sec. 205. Authorization of good governance programs.

        TITLE III--INTERNATIONAL ACADEMIC OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2000

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Statement of purpose.
Sec. 303. Establishment of grant program for foreign study by American 
           college students of limited financial means.
Sec. 304. Report to Congress.
Sec. 305. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 306. Effective date.

                   TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 401. Support for Overseas Cooperative Development Act.
Sec. 402. Funding of certain environmental assistance activities of 
           USAID.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1079]]

Sec. 403. Processing of applications for transportation of humanitarian 
           assistance abroad by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 404. Working capital fund.
Sec. 405. Increase in authorized number of employees and representatives 
           of the United States mission to the United Nations provided 
           living quarters in New York.
Sec. 406. Availability of VOA and Radio Marti multilingual computer 
           readable text and voice recordings.
Sec. 407. Availability of certain materials of the Voice of America.
Sec. 408. Paul D. Coverdell Fellows Program Act of 2000.

   TITLE <<NOTE: Microenterprise for Self-Reliance Act of 2000.>> I--
MICROENTERPRISE FOR SELF-RELIANCE ACT OF 2000

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Microenterprise for Self-Reliance 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151f note.>> FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS OF 
            POLICY.

    Congress makes the following findings and declarations:
            (1) According to the World Bank, more than 1,200,000,000 
        people in the developing world, or one-fifth of the world's 
        population, subsist on less than $1 a day.
            (2) Over 32,000 of their children die each day from largely 
        preventable malnutrition and disease.
            (3)(A) Women in poverty generally have larger work loads and 
        less access to educational and economic opportunities than their 
        male counterparts.
            (B) Directly aiding the poorest of the poor, especially 
        women, in the developing world has a positive effect not only on 
        family incomes, but also on child nutrition, health and 
        education, as women in particular reinvest income in their 
        families.
            (4)(A) The poor in the developing world, particularly women, 
        generally lack stable employment and social safety nets.
            (B) Many turn to self-employment to generate a substantial 
        portion of their livelihood. In Africa, over 80 percent of 
        employment is generated in the informal sector of the self-
        employed poor.
            (C) These poor entrepreneurs are often trapped in poverty 
        because they cannot obtain credit at reasonable rates to build 
        their asset base or expand their otherwise viable self-
        employment activities.
            (D) Many of the poor are forced to pay interest rates as 
        high as 10 percent per day to money lenders.
            (5)(A) The poor are able to expand their incomes and their 
        businesses dramatically when they can access loans at reasonable 
        interest rates.
            (B) Through the development of self-sustaining microfinance 
        programs, poor people themselves can lead the fight against 
        hunger and poverty.
            (6)(A) On February 2-4, 1997, a global Microcredit Summit 
        was held in Washington, District of Columbia, to launch a plan 
        to expand access to credit for self-employment and other 
        financial and business services to 100,000,000 of the world's 
        poorest families, especially the women of those families, by 
        2005. While this scale of outreach may not be achievable in

[[Page 114 STAT. 1080]]

        this short time-period, the realization of this goal could 
        dramatically alter the face of global poverty.
            (B) With an average family size of five, achieving this goal 
        will mean that the benefits of microfinance will thereby reach 
        nearly half of the world's more than 1,000,000,000 absolute poor 
        people.
            (7)(A) Nongovernmental organizations, such as those that 
        comprise the Microenterprise Coalition (such as the Grameen Bank 
        (Bangladesh), K-REP (Kenya), and networks such as Accion 
        International, the Foundation for International Community 
        Assistance (FINCA), and the credit union movement) are 
        successful in lending directly to the very poor.
            (B) Microfinance institutions such as BRAC (Bangladesh), 
        BancoSol (Bolivia), SEWA Bank (India), and ACEP (Senegal) are 
        regulated financial institutions that can raise funds directly 
        from the local and international capital markets.
            (8)(A) Microenterprise institutions not only reduce poverty, 
        but also reduce the dependency on foreign assistance.
            (B) Interest income on the credit portfolio is used to pay 
        recurring institutional costs, assuring the long-term 
        sustainability of development assistance.
            (9) Microfinance institutions leverage foreign assistance 
        resources because loans are recycled, generating new benefits to 
        program participants.
            (10)(A) The development of sustainable microfinance 
        institutions that provide credit and training, and mobilize 
        domestic savings, is a critical component to a global strategy 
        of poverty reduction and broad-based economic development.
            (B) In the efforts of the United States to lead the 
        development of a new global financial architecture, 
        microenterprise should play a vital role. The recent shocks to 
        international financial markets demonstrate how the financial 
        sector can shape the destiny of nations. Microfinance can serve 
        as a powerful tool for building a more inclusive financial 
        sector which serves the broad majority of the world's population 
        including the very poor and women and thus generate more social 
        stability and prosperity.
            (C) Over the last two decades, the United States has been a 
        global leader in promoting the global microenterprise sector, 
        primarily through its development assistance programs at the 
        United States Agency for International Development. 
        Additionally, the Department of the Treasury and the Department 
        of State have used their authority to promote microenterprise in 
        the development programs of international financial institutions 
        and the United Nations.
            (11)(A) In 1994, the United States Agency for International 
        Development launched the ``Microenterprise Initiative'' in 
        partnership with the Congress.
            (B) The initiative committed to expanding funding for the 
        microenterprise programs of the Agency, and set a goal that, by 
        the end of fiscal year 1996, one-half of all microenterprise 
        resources would support programs and institutions that provide 
        credit to the poorest, with loans under $300.
            (C) In order to achieve the goal of the microcredit summit, 
        increased investment in microfinance institutions serving the 
        poorest will be critical.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1081]]

            (12) Providing the United States share of the global 
        investment needed to achieve the goal of the microcredit summit 
        will require only a small increase in United States funding for 
        international microcredit programs, with an increased focus on 
        institutions serving the poorest.
            (13)(A) In order to reach tens of millions of the poorest 
        with microcredit, it is crucial to expand and replicate 
        successful microfinance institutions.
            (B) These institutions need assistance in developing their 
        institutional capacity to expand their services and tap 
        commercial sources of capital.
            (14) Nongovernmental organizations have demonstrated 
        competence in developing networks of local microfinance 
        institutions and other assistance delivery mechanisms so that 
        they reach large numbers of the very poor, and achieve financial 
        sustainability.
            (15) Recognizing that the United States Agency for 
        International Development has developed very effective 
        partnerships with nongovernmental organizations, and that the 
        Agency will have fewer missions overseas to carry out its work, 
        the Agency should place priority on investing in those 
        nongovernmental network institutions that meet performance 
        criteria through the central funding mechanisms of the Agency.
            (16) By expanding and replicating successful microfinance 
        institutions, it should be possible to create a global 
        infrastructure to provide financial services to the world's 
        poorest families.
            (17)(A) The United States can provide leadership to other 
        bilateral and multilateral development agencies as such agencies 
        expand their support to the microenterprise sector.
            (B) The United States should seek to improve coordination 
        among G-7 countries in the support of the microenterprise sector 
        in order to leverage the investment of the United States with 
        that of other donor nations.
            (18) Through increased support for microenterprise, 
        especially credit for the poorest, the United States can 
        continue to play a leadership role in the global effort to 
        expand financial services and opportunity to 100,000,000 of the 
        poorest families on the planet.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151f note.>> PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to make microenterprise development an important element 
        of United States foreign economic policy and assistance;
            (2) to provide for the continuation and expansion of the 
        commitment of the United States Agency for International 
        Development to the development of microenterprise institutions 
        as outlined in its 1994 Microenterprise Initiative;
            (3) to support and develop the capacity of United States and 
        indigenous nongovernmental organization intermediaries to 
        provide credit, savings, training, technical assistance, and 
        business development services to microentrepreneurs;
            (4) to emphasize financial services and substantially 
        increase the amount of assistance devoted to both financial 
        services and complementary business development services 
        designed to reach the poorest people in developing countries, 
        particularly women; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1082]]

            (5) to encourage the United States Agency for International 
        Development to coordinate microfinance policy, in consultation 
        with the Department of the Treasury and the Department of State, 
        and to provide global leadership among bilateral and 
        multilateral donors in promoting microenterprise for the poorest 
        of the poor.

SEC. 104. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151f note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Business development services.--The term ``business 
        development services'' means support for the growth of 
        microenterprises through training, technical assistance, 
        marketing assistance, improved production technologies, and 
        other services.
            (2) Microenterprise institution.--The term ``microenterprise 
        institution'' means an institution that provides services, 
        including microfinance, training, or business development 
        services, for microentrepreneurs.
            (3) Microfinance institution.--The term ``microfinance 
        institution'' means an institution that directly provides, or 
        works to expand, the availability of credit, savings, and other 
        financial services to microentrepreneurs.
            (4) Practitioner institution.--The term ``practitioner 
        institution'' means any institution that provides services, 
        including microfinance, training, or business development 
        services, for microentrepreneurs, or provides assistance to 
        microenterprise institutions.

SEC. 105. MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT GRANT ASSISTANCE.

    Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2151 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 131. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152a.>> MICROENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT GRANT 
            ASSISTANCE.

    ``(a) Findings and Policy.--Congress finds and declares that--
            ``(1) the development of microenterprise is a vital factor 
        in the stable growth of developing countries and in the 
        development of free, open, and equitable international economic 
        systems;
            ``(2) it is therefore in the best interest of the United 
        States to assist the development of microenterprises in 
        developing countries; and
            ``(3) the support of microenterprise can be served by 
        programs providing credit, savings, training, technical 
        assistance, and business development services.

    ``(b) Authorization.--
            ``(1) In general.--In <<NOTE: President.>> carrying out this 
        part, the President is authorized to provide grant assistance 
        for programs to increase the availability of credit and other 
        services to microenterprises lacking full access to capital 
        training, technical assistance, and business development 
        services, through--
                    ``(A) grants to microfinance institutions for the 
                purpose of expanding the availability of credit, 
                savings, and other financial services to 
                microentrepreneurs;
                    ``(B) grants to microenterprise institutions for the 
                purpose of training, technical assistance, and business 
                development services for microenterprises to enable them 
                to make

[[Page 114 STAT. 1083]]

                better use of credit, to better manage their 
                enterprises, and to increase their income and build 
                their assets;
                    ``(C) capacity-building for microenterprise 
                institutions in order to enable them to better meet the 
                credit and training needs of microentrepreneurs; and
                    ``(D) policy and regulatory programs at the country 
                level that improve the environment for 
                microentrepreneurs and microenterprise institutions that 
                serve the poor and very poor.
            ``(2) Implementation.--Assistance authorized under paragraph 
        (1)(A) and (B) shall be provided through organizations that have 
        a capacity to develop and implement microenterprise programs, 
        including particularly--
                    ``(A) United States and indigenous private and 
                voluntary organizations;
                    ``(B) United States and indigenous credit unions and 
                cooperative organizations; or
                    ``(C) other indigenous governmental and 
                nongovernmental organizations.
            ``(3) Targeted assistance.--In carrying out sustainable 
        poverty-focused programs under paragraph (1), 50 percent of all 
        microenterprise resources shall be targeted to very poor 
        entrepreneurs, defined as those living in the bottom 50 percent 
        below the poverty line as established by the national government 
        of the country. Specifically, such resources shall be used for--
                    ``(A) direct support of programs under this 
                subsection through practitioner institutions that--
                          ``(i) provide credit and other financial 
                      services to entrepreneurs who are very poor, with 
                      loans in 1995 United States dollars of--
                                    ``(I) $1,000 or less in the Europe 
                                and Eurasia region;
                                    ``(II) $400 or less in the Latin 
                                America region; and
                                    ``(III) $300 or less in the rest of 
                                the world; and
                          ``(ii) can cover their costs in a reasonable 
                      time period; or
                    ``(B) demand-driven business development programs 
                that achieve reasonable cost recovery that are provided 
                to clients holding poverty loans (as defined by the 
                regional poverty loan limitations in subparagraph 
                (A)(i)), whether they are provided by microfinance 
                institutions or by specialized business development 
                services providers.
            ``(4) Support for central mechanisms.--The President should 
        continue support for central mechanisms and missions, as 
        appropriate, that--
                    ``(A) provide technical support for field missions;
                    ``(B) strengthen the institutional development of 
                the intermediary organizations described in paragraph 
                (2);
                    ``(C) share information relating to the provision of 
                assistance authorized under paragraph (1) between such 
                field missions and intermediary organizations; and
                    ``(D) support the development of nonprofit global 
                microfinance networks, including credit union systems, 
                that--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1084]]

                          ``(i) are able to deliver very small loans 
                      through a significant grassroots infrastructure 
                      based on market principles; and
                          ``(ii) act as wholesale intermediaries 
                      providing a range of services to microfinance 
                      retail institutions, including financing, 
                      technical assistance, capacity-building, and 
                      safety and soundness accreditation.
            ``(5) Limitation.--Assistance provided under this subsection 
        may only be used to support microenterprise programs and may not 
        be used to support programs not directly related to the purposes 
        described in paragraph (1).

    ``(c) Monitoring System.--In order to maximize the sustainable 
development impact of the assistance authorized under subsection (b)(1), 
the Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for administering 
this part shall establish a monitoring system that--
            ``(1) establishes performance goals for such assistance and 
        expresses such goals in an objective and quantifiable form, to 
        the extent feasible;
            ``(2) establishes performance indicators to be used in 
        measuring or assessing the achievement of the goals and 
        objectives of such assistance;
            ``(3) provides a basis for recommendations for adjustments 
        to such assistance to enhance the sustainable development impact 
        of such assistance, particularly the impact of such assistance 
        on the very poor, particularly poor women; and
            ``(4) provides a basis for recommendations for adjustments 
        to measures for reaching the poorest of the poor, including 
        proposed legislation containing amendments to enhance the 
        sustainable development impact of such assistance, as described 
        in paragraph (3).

    ``(d) Level of Assistance.--Of the funds made available under this 
part, the FREEDOM Support Act, and the Support for East European 
Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989, including local currencies derived from 
such funds, there are authorized to be available $155,000,000 for each 
of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002, to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Business development services.--The term `business 
        development services' means support for the growth of 
        microenterprises through training, technical assistance, 
        marketing assistance, improved production technologies, and 
        other services.
            ``(2) Microenterprise institution.--The term 
        `microenterprise institution' means an institution that provides 
        services, including microfinance, training, or business 
        development services, for microentrepreneurs.
            ``(3) Microfinance institution.--The term `microfinance 
        institution' means an institution that directly provides, or 
        works to expand, the availability of credit, savings, and other 
        financial services to microentrepreneurs.
            ``(4) Practitioner institution.--The term `practitioner 
        institution' means any institution that provides services, 
        including microfinance, training, or business development 
        services, for microentrepreneurs, or provides assistance to 
        microenterprise institutions.''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1085]]

SEC. 106. MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CREDITS.

    Section 108 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151f ) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 108. MICRO- AND SMALL ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT CREDITS.

    ``(a) Findings and Policy.--Congress finds and declares that--
            ``(1) the development of micro- and small enterprises is a 
        vital factor in the stable growth of developing countries and in 
        the development and stability of a free, open, and equitable 
        international economic system; and
            ``(2) it is, therefore, in the best interests of the United 
        States to assist the development of the enterprises of the poor 
        in developing countries and to engage the United States private 
        sector in that process.

    ``(b) Program.--To <<NOTE: President.>> carry out the policy set 
forth in subsection (a), the President is authorized to provide 
assistance to increase the availability of credit to micro- and small 
enterprises lacking full access to credit, including through--
            ``(1) loans and guarantees to credit institutions for the 
        purpose of expanding the availability of credit to micro- and 
        small enterprises;
            ``(2) training programs for lenders in order to enable them 
        to better meet the credit needs of microentrepreneurs; and
            ``(3) training programs for microentrepreneurs in order to 
        enable them to make better use of credit and to better manage 
        their enterprises.

    ``(c) Eligibility Criteria.--The Administrator of the agency 
primarily responsible for administering this part shall establish 
criteria for determining which credit institutions described in 
subsection (b)(1) are eligible to carry out activities, with respect to 
micro- and small enterprises, assisted under this section. Such criteria 
may include the following:
            ``(1) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the 
        entity do not have access to the local formal financial sector.
            ``(2) The extent to which the recipients of credit from the 
        entity are among the poorest people in the country.
            ``(3) The extent to which the entity is oriented toward 
        working directly with poor women.
            ``(4) The extent to which the entity recovers its cost of 
        lending.
            ``(5) The extent to which the entity implements a plan to 
        become financially sustainable.

    ``(d) Additional Requirement.--Assistance provided under this 
section may only be used to support micro- and small enterprise programs 
and may not be used to support programs not directly related to the 
purposes described in subsection (b).
    ``(e) Procurement Provision.--Assistance may be provided under this 
section without regard to section 604(a).
    ``(f ) Availability of Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be available 
        to carry out section 131, there are authorized to be available 
        $1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 and 2002 to carry out 
        this section.
            ``(2) Coverage of subsidy costs.--Amounts authorized to be 
        available under paragraph (1) shall be made available to cover 
        the subsidy cost, as defined in section 502(5) of the

[[Page 114 STAT. 1086]]

        Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, for activities under this 
        section.''.

SEC. 107. UNITED STATES MICROFINANCE LOAN FACILITY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), as amended by section 105 of this Act, 
is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 132. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152b.>> UNITED STATES MICROFINANCE LOAN 
            FACILITY.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Administrator is authorized to establish a 
United States Microfinance Loan Facility (in this section referred to as 
the `Facility') to pool and manage the risk from natural disasters, war 
or civil conflict, national financial crisis, or short-term financial 
movements that threaten the long-term development of United States-
supported microfinance institutions.
    ``(b) Disbursements.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall make 
        disbursements from the Facility to United States-supported 
        microfinance institutions to prevent the bankruptcy of such 
        institutions caused by--
                    ``(A) natural disasters;
                    ``(B) national wars or civil conflict; or
                    ``(C) national financial crisis or other short-term 
                financial movements that threaten the long-term 
                development of United States-supported microfinance 
                institutions.
            ``(2) Form of assistance.--Assistance under this section 
        shall be in the form of loans or loan guarantees for 
        microfinance institutions that demonstrate the capacity to 
        resume self-sustained operations within a reasonable time 
        period.
            ``(3) Congressional notification procedures.--During each of 
        the fiscal years 2001 and 2002, funds may not be made available 
        from the Facility until 15 days after notification of the 
        proposed availability of the funds has been provided to the 
        congressional committees specified in section 634A in accordance 
        with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications 
        under that section.

    ``(c) General Provisions.--
            ``(1) Policy provisions.--In providing the credit assistance 
        authorized by this section, the Administrator should apply, as 
        appropriate, the policy provisions in this part that are 
        applicable to development assistance activities.
            ``(2) Default and procurement provisions.--
                    ``(A) Default provision.--The provisions of section 
                620(q), or any comparable provision of law, shall not be 
                construed to prohibit assistance to a country in the 
                event that a private sector recipient of assistance 
                furnished under this section is in default in its 
                payment to the United States for the period specified in 
                such section.
                    ``(B) Procurement provision.--Assistance may be 
                provided under this section without regard to section 
                604(a).
            ``(3) Terms and conditions of credit assistance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Credit assistance provided under 
                this section shall be offered on such terms and 
                conditions, including fees charged, as the Administrator 
                may determine.
                    ``(B) Limitation on principal amount of financing.--
                The principal amount of loans made or

[[Page 114 STAT. 1087]]

                guaranteed under this section in any fiscal year, with 
                respect to any single event, may not exceed $30,000,000.
                    ``(C) Exception.--No payment may be made under any 
                guarantee issued under this section for any loss arising 
                out of fraud or misrepresentation for which the party 
                seeking payment is responsible.
            ``(4) Full faith and credit.--All guarantees issued under 
        this section shall constitute obligations, in accordance with 
        the terms of such guarantees, of the United States of America, 
        and the full faith and credit of the United States of America is 
        hereby pledged for the full payment and performance of such 
        obligations to the extent of the guarantee.

    ``(d) Funding.--
            ``(1) Allocation of funds.--Of the amounts made available to 
        carry out this part for the fiscal year 2001, up to $5,000,000 
        may be made available for--
                    ``(A) the subsidy cost, as defined in section 502(5) 
                of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, to carry out 
                this section; and
                    ``(B) the administrative costs to carry out this 
                section.
            ``(2) Relation to other funding.--Amounts made available 
        under paragraph (1) are in addition to amounts available under 
        any other provision of law to carry out this section.

    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Administrator.--The term `Administrator' means the 
        Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
        administering this part.
            ``(2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives.
            ``(3) United states-supported microfinance institution.--The 
        term `United States-supported microfinance institution' means a 
        financial intermediary that has received funds made available 
        under part I of this Act for fiscal year 1980 or any subsequent 
        fiscal year.''.

    (b) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline. 22 USC 2152b note.>> later than 
120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
of the United States Agency for International Development shall submit 
to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives a report on the 
policies, rules, and regulations of the United States Microfinance Loan 
Facility established under section 132 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961, as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 108. REPORT RELATING TO FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF MICROENTERPRISE 
            INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the most cost-effective 
methods and measurements for increasing the access of poor people 
overseas to credit, other financial services, and related training.

    (b) Contents.--The report described in subsection (a)--
            (1) shall include how the President, in consultation with 
        the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, will develop a comprehensive strategy for advancing

[[Page 114 STAT. 1088]]

        the global microenterprise sector in a way that maintains market 
        principles while ensuring that the very poor overseas, 
        particularly women, obtain access to financial services 
        overseas;
            (2) shall provide guidelines and recommendations for--
                    (A) instruments to assist microenterprise networks 
                to develop multi-country and regional microlending 
                programs;
                    (B) technical assistance to foreign governments, 
                foreign central banks, and regulatory entities to 
                improve the policy environment for microfinance 
                institutions, and to strengthen the capacity of 
                supervisory bodies to supervise microfinance 
                institutions;
                    (C) the potential for Federal chartering of United 
                States-based international microfinance network 
                institutions, including proposed legislation;
                    (D) instruments to increase investor confidence in 
                microfinance institutions which would strengthen the 
                long-term financial position of the microfinance 
                institutions and attract capital from private sector 
                entities and individuals, such as a rating system for 
                microfinance institutions and local credit bureaus;
                    (E) an agenda for integrating microfinance into 
                United States foreign policy initiatives seeking to 
                develop and strengthen the global finance sector; and
                    (F) innovative instruments to attract funds from the 
                capital markets, such as instruments for leveraging 
                funds from the local commercial banking sector, and the 
                securitization of microloan portfolios; and
            (3) shall include a section that assesses the need for a 
        microenterprise accelerated growth fund and that includes--
                    (A) a description of the benefits of such a fund;
                    (B) an identification of which microenterprise 
                institutions might become eligible for assistance from 
                such fund;
                    (C) a description of how such a fund could be 
                administered;
                    (D) a recommendation on which agency or agencies of 
                the United States Government should administer the fund 
                and within which such agency the fund should be located; 
                and
                    (E) a recommendation on how soon it might be 
                necessary to establish such a fund in order to provide 
                the support necessary for microenterprise institutions 
                involved in microenterprise development.

    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
International Relations of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.

SEC. 109. UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS GLOBAL 
            LEADER AND COORDINATOR OF BILATERAL AND MULTILATERAL 
            MICROENTERPRISE ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Findings and Policy.--Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) the United States can provide leadership to other 
        bilateral and multilateral development agencies as such agencies 
        expand their support to the microenterprise sector; and
            (2) the United States should seek to improve coordination 
        among G-7 countries in the support of the microenterprise

[[Page 114 STAT. 1089]]

        sector in order to leverage the investment of the United States 
        with that of other donor nations.

    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
        International Development and the Secretary of State should seek 
        to support and strengthen the effectiveness of microfinance 
        activities in United Nations agencies, such as the United 
        Nations Development Program (UNDP), which have provided key 
        leadership in developing the microenterprise sector; and
            (2) the Secretary of the Treasury should instruct each 
        United States Executive Director of the multilateral development 
        banks (MDBs) to advocate the development of a coherent and 
        coordinated strategy to support the microenterprise sector and 
        an increase of multilateral resource flows for the purposes of 
        building microenterprise retail and wholesale intermediaries.

SEC. 110. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON CONSIDERATION OF MEXICO AS A KEY 
            PRIORITY IN MICROENTERPRISE FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) An estimated 45,000,000 of Mexico's 100,000,000 
        population currently lives below the poverty line, accounting 
        for 20 percent of all poor in Latin America.
            (2) Mexico cannot create enough salaried jobs to absorb new 
        workers entering the labor force.
            (3) While many poor families depend on microenterprise 
        initiatives to generate a livelihood, the United States Agency 
        for International Development currently has two microcredit 
        projects in Mexico, receiving less than 1 percent of overall 
        microenterprise funding in Latin America and the Caribbean 
        during the last decade.
            (4) Mexico's microenterprise activity has been constrained 
        because its financial institutions cannot expand financial 
        services to a larger clientele due to a lack of capital, 
        inefficient financial and administrative management, and a lack 
        of institutional support for microfinance institutions' 
        particular needs.
            (5) Mexican nongovernmental organizations, such as 
        Compartamos, have demonstrated competence in developing local 
        microfinance programs.
            (6) On July 2, 2000, Vicente Fox Quesada of the Alliance for 
        Change was elected President of the United Mexican States.
            (7) The President-elect of Mexico has identified 
        entrepreneurship and the start-up of new microcredit 
        institutions as key economic priorities.
            (8) Microenterprise and entrepreneurial initiatives have 
        proven to be successful components of free market development 
        and economic stability.

    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) providing Mexico's poor with economic opportunity and 
        microfinance services is fundamental to Mexico's economic 
        development;
            (2) microenterprise can have a positive impact on Mexico's 
        free market development; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1090]]

            (3) the United States Agency for International Development 
        should consider Mexico as a key priority in its microenterprise 
        funding allocations.

 TITLE <<NOTE: International Anti-Corruption and Good Government Act of 
  2000.>> II--INTERNATIONAL ANTI-CORRUPTION AND GOOD GOVERNANCE ACT OF 
2000

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``International Anti-Corruption and 
Good Governance Act of 2000''.

SEC. 202. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152c note.>> FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Widespread corruption endangers the stability and 
        security of societies, undermines democracy, and jeopardizes the 
        social, political, and economic development of a society.
            (2) Corruption facilitates criminal activities, such as 
        money laundering, hinders economic development, inflates the 
        costs of doing business, and undermines the legitimacy of the 
        government and public trust.
            (3) In January 1997 the United Nations General Assembly 
        adopted a resolution urging member states to carefully consider 
        the problems posed by the international aspects of corrupt 
        practices and to study appropriate legislative and regulatory 
        measures to ensure the transparency and integrity of financial 
        systems.
            (4) The United States was the first country to criminalize 
        international bribery through the enactment of the Foreign 
        Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 and United States leadership was 
        instrumental in the passage of the Organization for Economic 
        Cooperation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combatting 
        Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business 
        Transactions.
            (5) The Vice President, at the Global Forum on Fighting 
        Corruption in 1999, declared corruption to be a direct threat to 
        the rule of law and the Secretary of State declared corruption 
        to be a matter of profound political and social consequence for 
        our efforts to strengthen democratic governments.
            (6) The Secretary of State, at the Inter-American 
        Development Bank's annual meeting in March 2000, declared that 
        despite certain economic achievements, democracy is being 
        threatened as citizens grow weary of the corruption and 
        favoritism of their official institutions and that efforts must 
        be made to improve governance if respect for democratic 
        institutions is to be regained.
            (7) In May 1996 the Organization of American States (OAS) 
        adopted the Inter-American Convention Against Corruption 
        requiring countries to provide various forms of international 
        cooperation and assistance to facilitate the prevention, 
        investigation, and prosecution of acts of corruption.
            (8) Independent media, committed to fighting corruption and 
        trained in investigative journalism techniques, can both educate 
        the public on the costs of corruption and act as a deterrent 
        against corrupt officials.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1091]]

            (9) Competent and independent judiciary, founded on a merit-
        based selection process and trained to enforce contracts and 
        protect property rights, is critical for creating a predictable 
        and consistent environment for transparency in legal procedures.
            (10) Independent and accountable legislatures, responsive 
        political parties, and transparent electoral processes, in 
        conjunction with professional, accountable, and transparent 
        financial management and procurement policies and procedures, 
        are essential to the promotion of good governance and to the 
        combat of corruption.
            (11) Transparent business frameworks, including modern 
        commercial codes and intellectual property rights, are vital to 
        enhancing economic growth and decreasing corruption at all 
        levels of society.
            (12) The United States should attempt to improve 
        accountability in foreign countries, including by--
                    (A) promoting transparency and accountability 
                through support for independent media, promoting 
                financial disclosure by public officials, political 
                parties, and candidates for public office, open 
                budgeting processes, adequate and effective internal 
                control systems, suitable financial management systems, 
                and financial and compliance reporting;
                    (B) supporting the establishment of audit offices, 
                inspectors general offices, third party monitoring of 
                government procurement processes, and anti-corruption 
                agencies;
                    (C) promoting responsive, transparent, and 
                accountable legislatures that ensure legislative 
                oversight and whistle-blower protection;
                    (D) promoting judicial reforms that criminalize 
                corruption and promoting law enforcement that prosecutes 
                corruption;
                    (E) fostering business practices that promote 
                transparent, ethical, and competitive behavior in the 
                private sector through the development of an effective 
                legal framework for commerce, including anti-bribery 
                laws, commercial codes that incorporate international 
                standards for business practices, and protection of 
                intellectual property rights; and
                    (F) promoting free and fair national, state, and 
                local elections.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to ensure that United 
States assistance programs promote good governance by assisting other 
countries to combat corruption throughout society and to improve 
transparency and accountability at all levels of government and 
throughout the private sector.

SEC. 203. DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE POLICY.

    (a) General Policy.--Section 101(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151(a)) is amended in the fifth sentence--
            (1) by striking ``four'' and inserting ``five'';
            (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (3);
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:

[[Page 114 STAT. 1092]]

            ``(5) the promotion of good governance through combating 
        corruption and improving transparency and accountability.''.

    (b) Development Assistance Policy.--Section 102(b) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151-1(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph 
                (E);
                    (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(G) progress in combating corruption and improving 
                transparency and accountability in the public and 
                private sector.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(17) Economic reform and development of effective 
        institutions of democratic governance are mutually reinforcing. 
        The successful transition of a developing country is dependent 
        upon the quality of its economic and governance institutions. 
        Rule of law, mechanisms of accountability and transparency, 
        security of person, property, and investments, are but a few of 
        the critical governance and economic reforms that underpin the 
        sustainability of broad-based economic growth. Programs in 
        support of such reforms strengthen the capacity of people to 
        hold their governments accountable and to create economic 
        opportunity.''.

SEC. 204. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM FOR 
            DEVELOPING COUNTRIES.

    Section 129(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2151aa(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Emphasis on anti-corruption.--Such technical 
        assistance shall include elements designed to combat anti-
        competitive, unethical, and corrupt activities, including 
        protection against actions that may distort or inhibit 
        transparency in market mechanisms and, to the extent applicable, 
        privatization procedures.''.

SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF GOOD GOVERNANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), as amended by sections 105 and 107, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 133. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152c.>> PROGRAMS TO ENCOURAGE GOOD 
            GOVERNANCE.

    ``(a) Establishment of Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--The <<NOTE: President.>> President is 
        authorized to establish programs that combat corruption, improve 
        transparency and accountability, and promote other forms of good 
        governance in countries described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Countries described.--A country described in this 
        paragraph is a country that is eligible to receive assistance 
        under this part (including chapter 4 of part II of this Act) or 
        the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989.
            ``(3) Priority.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        President shall give priority to establishing programs in 
        countries that received a significant amount of United States 
        foreign assistance for the prior fiscal year, or in which the 
        United States has a significant economic interest, and that 
        continue to have

[[Page 114 STAT. 1093]]

        the most persistent problems with public and private corruption. 
        In determining which countries have the most persistent problems 
        with public and private corruption under the preceding sentence, 
        the President shall take into account criteria such as the 
        Transparency International Annual Corruption Perceptions Index, 
        standards and codes set forth by the International Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development and the International Monetary 
        Fund, and other relevant criteria.
            ``(4) Relation to other laws.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Assistance provided for countries 
                under programs established pursuant to paragraph (1) may 
                be made available notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law that restricts assistance to foreign countries. 
                Assistance provided under a program established pursuant 
                to paragraph (1) for a country that would otherwise be 
                restricted from receiving such assistance but for the 
                preceding sentence may not be provided directly to the 
                government of the country.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) does not apply 
                with respect to--
                          ``(i) section 620A of this Act or any 
                      comparable provision of law prohibiting assistance 
                      to countries that support international terrorism; 
                      or
                          ``(ii) section 907 of the Freedom for Russia 
                      and Emerging Eurasian Democracies and Open Markets 
                      Support Act of 1992.

    ``(b) Specific Projects and Activities.--The programs established 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall include, to the extent appropriate, 
projects and activities that--
            ``(1) support responsible independent media to promote 
        oversight of public and private institutions;
            ``(2) implement financial disclosure among public officials, 
        political parties, and candidates for public office, open 
        budgeting processes, and transparent financial management 
        systems;
            ``(3) support the establishment of audit offices, inspectors 
        general offices, third party monitoring of government 
        procurement processes, and anti-corruption agencies;
            ``(4) promote responsive, transparent, and accountable 
        legislatures and local governments that ensure legislative and 
        local oversight and whistle-blower protection;
            ``(5) promote legal and judicial reforms that criminalize 
        corruption and law enforcement reforms and development that 
        encourage prosecutions of criminal corruption;
            ``(6) assist in the development of a legal framework for 
        commercial transactions that fosters business practices that 
        promote transparent, ethical, and competitive behavior in the 
        economic sector, such as commercial codes that incorporate 
        international standards and protection of intellectual property 
        rights;
            ``(7) promote free and fair national, state, and local 
        elections;
            ``(8) foster public participation in the legislative process 
        and public access to government information; and
            ``(9) engage civil society in the fight against corruption.

    ``(c) Conduct of Projects and Activities.--Projects and activities 
under the programs established pursuant to subsection

[[Page 114 STAT. 1094]]

(a) may include, among other things, training and technical assistance 
(including drafting of anti-corruption, privatization, and competitive 
statutory and administrative codes), drafting of anti-corruption, 
privatization, and competitive statutory and administrative codes, 
support for independent media and publications, financing of the program 
and operating costs of nongovernmental organizations that carry out such 
projects or activities, and assistance for travel of individuals to the 
United States and other countries for such projects and activities.
    ``(d) Annual Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of State, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Commerce and the Administrator of the 
        United States Agency for International Development, shall 
        prepare and transmit to the Committee on International Relations 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the Senate an annual report on--
                    ``(A) projects and activities carried out under 
                programs established under subsection (a) for the prior 
                year in priority countries identified pursuant to 
                subsection (a)(3); and
                    ``(B) projects and activities carried out under 
                programs to combat corruption, improve transparency and 
                accountability, and promote other forms of good 
                governance established under other provisions of law for 
                the prior year in such countries.
            ``(2) Required contents.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall contain the following information with respect to each 
        country described in paragraph (1):
                    ``(A) A description of all United States Government-
                funded programs and initiatives to combat corruption and 
                improve transparency and accountability in the country.
                    ``(B) A description of United States diplomatic 
                efforts to combat corruption and improve transparency 
                and accountability in the country.
                    ``(C) An analysis of major actions taken by the 
                government of the country to combat corruption and 
                improve transparency and accountability in the country.

    ``(e) Funding.--Amounts made available to carry out the other 
provisions of this part (including chapter 4 of part II of this Act) and 
the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989 shall be made 
available to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Deadline <<NOTE: 22 USC 2152c note.>> for Initial Report.--The 
initial annual report required by section 133(d)(1) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961, as added by subsection (a), shall be transmitted 
not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

  TITLE <<NOTE: International Academic Opportunity Act of 2000.>> III--
INTERNATIONAL ACADEMIC OPPORTUNITY ACT OF 2000

SEC. 301. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``International Academic Opportunity 
Act of 2000''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1095]]

SEC. 302. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 note.>> STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.

    It is the purpose of this title to establish an undergraduate grant 
program for students of limited financial means from the United States 
to enable such students to study abroad. Such foreign study is intended 
to broaden the outlook and better prepare such students of demonstrated 
financial need to assume significant roles in the increasingly global 
economy.

SEC. 303. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 and note.>> ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANT PROGRAM 
            FOR FOREIGN STUDY BY AMERICAN COLLEGE STUDENTS OF LIMITED 
            FINANCIAL MEANS.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to the availability of appropriations 
and under the authorities of the Mutual Educational and Cultural 
Exchange Act of 1961, the Secretary of State shall establish and carry 
out a program in each fiscal year to award grants of up to $5,000, to 
individuals who meet the requirements of subsection (b), toward the cost 
of up to one academic year of undergraduate study abroad. Grants under 
this Act shall be known as the ``Benjamin A. Gilman International 
Scholarships''.
    (b) Eligibility.--An individual referred to in subsection (a) is an 
individual who--
            (1) is a student in good standing at an institution of 
        higher education in the United States (as defined in section 
        101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965);
            (2) has been accepted for up to one academic year of study 
        on a program of study abroad approved for credit by the 
        student's home institution;
            (3) is receiving any need-based student assistance under 
        title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965; and
            (4) is a citizen or national of the United States.

    (c) Application and Selection.--
            (1) Grant application and selection shall be carried out 
        through accredited institutions of higher education in the 
        United States or a combination of such institutions under such 
        procedures as are established by the Secretary of State.
            (2) In considering applications for grants under this 
        section--
                    (A) consideration of financial need shall include 
                the increased costs of study abroad; and
                    (B) priority consideration shall be given to 
                applicants who are receiving Federal Pell Grants under 
                title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965.

SEC. 304. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 note.>> REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    The Secretary of State shall report annually to the Congress 
concerning the grant program established under this title. Each such 
report shall include the following information for the preceding year:
            (1) The number of participants.
            (2) The institutions of higher education in the United 
        States that participants attended.
            (3) The institutions of higher education outside the United 
        States participants attended during their study abroad.
            (4) The areas of study of participants.

SEC. 305. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000 for each fiscal 
year to carry out this title.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1096]]

SEC. 306. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2462 note.>> EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title shall take effect October 1, 2000.

                   TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 401. <<NOTE: Support for Overseas Cooperative Development 
            Act.>> SUPPORT FOR OVERSEAS COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> section may be 
cited as the ``Support for Overseas Cooperative Development Act''.

    (b) Findings.--The <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151i note.>> Congress makes the 
following findings:
            (1) It is in the mutual economic interest of the United 
        States and peoples in developing and transitional countries to 
        promote cooperatives and credit unions.
            (2) Self-help institutions, including cooperatives and 
        credit unions, provide enhanced opportunities for people to 
        participate directly in democratic decision-making for their 
        economic and social benefit through ownership and control of 
        business enterprises and through the mobilization of local 
        capital and savings and such organizations should be fully 
        utilized in fostering free market principles and the adoption of 
        self-help approaches to development.
            (3) The United States seeks to encourage broad-based 
        economic and social development by creating and supporting--
                    (A) agricultural cooperatives that provide a means 
                to lift low income farmers and rural people out of 
                poverty and to better integrate them into national 
                economies;
                    (B) credit union networks that serve people of 
                limited means through safe savings and by extending 
                credit to families and microenterprises;
                    (C) electric and telephone cooperatives that provide 
                rural customers with power and telecommunications 
                services essential to economic development;
                    (D) housing and community-based cooperatives that 
                provide low income shelter and work opportunities for 
                the urban poor; and
                    (E) mutual and cooperative insurance companies that 
                provide risk protection for life and property to under-
                served populations often through group policies.

    (c) General Provisions.--
            (1) Declarations of policy.--The <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151i 
        note.>> Congress supports the development and expansion of 
        economic assistance programs that fully utilize cooperatives and 
        credit unions, particularly those programs committed to--
                    (A) international cooperative principles, democratic 
                governance and involvement of women and ethnic 
                minorities for economic and social development;
                    (B) self-help mobilization of member savings and 
                equity and retention of profits in the community, except 
                for those programs that are dependent on donor 
                financing;
                    (C) market-oriented and value-added activities with 
                the potential to reach large numbers of low income 
                people and help them enter into the mainstream economy;
                    (D) strengthening the participation of rural and 
                urban poor to contribute to their country's economic 
                development; and

[[Page 114 STAT. 1097]]

                    (E) utilization of technical assistance and training 
                to better serve the member-owners.
            (2) Development priorities.--Section 111 of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151i) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following: ``In meeting the requirement of the 
        preceding sentence, specific priority shall be given to the 
        following:
            ``(1) Agriculture.--Technical assistance to low income 
        farmers who form and develop member-owned cooperatives for farm 
        supplies, marketing and value-added processing.
            ``(2) Financial systems.--The promotion of national credit 
        union systems through credit union-to-credit union technical 
        assistance that strengthens the ability of low income people and 
        micro-entrepreneurs to save and to have access to credit for 
        their own economic advancement.
            ``(3) Infrastructure.--The support of rural electric and 
        telecommunication cooperatives for access for rural people and 
        villages that lack reliable electric and telecommunications 
        services.
            ``(4) Housing and community services.--The promotion of 
        community-based cooperatives which provide employment 
        opportunities and important services such as health clinics, 
        self-help shelter, environmental improvements, group-owned 
        businesses, and other activities.''.

    (d) Report.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline. 22 USC 2151i note.>> later than 6 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development, in consultation 
with the heads of other appropriate agencies, shall prepare and submit 
to Congress a report on the implementation of section 111 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151i), as amended by subsection (c).

SEC. 402. FUNDING OF CERTAIN ENVIRONMENTAL ASSISTANCE ACTIVITIES OF 
            USAID.

    (a) Allocation of Funds for Certain Environmental Activities.--Of 
the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year 2001 to 
carry out chapter 1 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
U.S.C. 2151 et seq.; relating to development assistance), there is 
authorized to be available at least $60,200,000 to carry out activities 
of the type carried out by the Global Environment Center of the United 
States Agency for International Development during fiscal year 2000.
    (b) Allocation for Water and Coastal Resources.--Of the amounts made 
available under subsection (a), at least $2,500,000 shall be available 
for water and coastal resources activities under the natural resources 
management function specified in that subsection.

SEC. 403. <<NOTE: 10 USC 402 note.>> PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS FOR 
            TRANSPORTATION OF HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE ABROAD BY THE 
            DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Priority for Disaster Relief Assistance.--In processing 
applications for the transportation of humanitarian assistance abroad 
under section 402 of title 10, United States Code, the Administrator of 
the United States Agency for International Development shall afford a 
priority to applications for the transportation of disaster relief 
assistance.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1098]]

    (b) Modification of Applications.--The Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development shall take all possible 
actions to assist applicants for the transportation of humanitarian 
assistance abroad under such section 402 in modifying or completing 
applications submitted under such section in order to meet applicable 
requirements under such section. The actions shall include efforts to 
contact such applicants for purposes of the modification or completion 
of such applications.

SEC. 404. WORKING CAPITAL FUND.

    Section 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2395) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(m)(1) <<NOTE: Establishment.>> There is established a working 
capital fund (in this subsection referred to as the `fund') for the 
United States Agency for International Development (in this subsection 
referred to as the `Agency') which shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation for the expenses of personal and nonpersonal services, 
equipment, and supplies for--
            ``(A) International Cooperative Administrative Support 
        Services; and
            ``(B) rebates from the use of United States Government 
        credit cards.

    ``(2) The capital of the fund shall consist of--
            ``(A) the fair and reasonable value of such supplies, 
        equipment, and other assets pertaining to the functions of the 
        fund as the Administrator determines,
            ``(B) rebates from the use of United States Government 
        credit cards, and
            ``(C) any appropriations made available for the purpose of 
        providing capital,

minus related liabilities.
    ``(3) The fund shall be reimbursed or credited with advance payments 
for services, equipment, or supplies provided from the fund from 
applicable appropriations and funds of the Agency, other Federal 
agencies and other sources authorized by section 607 at rates that will 
recover total expenses of operation, including accrual of annual leave 
and depreciation. Receipts from the disposal of, or payments for the 
loss or damage to, property held in the fund, rebates, reimbursements, 
refunds and other credits applicable to the operation of the fund may be 
deposited in the fund.
    ``(4) At the close of each fiscal year the Administrator of the 
Agency shall transfer out of the fund to the miscellaneous receipts 
account of the Treasury of the United States such amounts as the 
Administrator determines to be in excess of the needs of the fund.
    ``(5) The fund may be charged with the current value of supplies and 
equipment returned to the working capital of the fund by a post, 
activity, or agency, and the proceeds shall he credited to current 
applicable appropriations.''.

SEC. 405. INCREASE IN AUTHORIZED NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AND REPRESENTATIVES 
            OF THE UNITED STATES MISSION TO THE UNITED NATIONS PROVIDED 
            LIVING QUARTERS IN NEW YORK.

    Section 9(2) of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22 
U.S.C. 287e-1(2)) is amended by striking ``18'' and inserting ``30''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1099]]

SEC. 406. AVAILABILITY OF VOA AND RADIO MARTI MULTILINGUAL COMPUTER 
            READABLE TEXT AND VOICE RECORDINGS.

    Section 1(b) of Public Law 104-269 (110 Stat. 3300) is amended by 
striking ``5 years'' and inserting ``10 years''.

SEC. 407. AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN MATERIALS OF THE VOICE OF AMERICA.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this section, 
        the Broadcasting Board of Governors (in this section referred to 
        as the ``Board'') is authorized to make available to the 
        Institute for Media Development (in this section referred to as 
        the ``Institute''), at the request of the Institute, previously 
        broadcast audio and video materials produced by the Africa 
        Division of the Voice of America.
            (2) Deposit of materials.--Upon the request of the Institute 
        and the approval of the Board, materials made available under 
        paragraph (1) may be deposited with the University of 
        California, Los Angeles, or such other appropriate institution 
        of higher education (as defined in section 101(a) of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)) that is approved by 
        the Board for such purpose.
            (3) Supersedes existing law.--Materials made available under 
        paragraph (1) may be provided notwithstanding section 501 of the 
        United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 
        (22 U.S.C. 1461) and section 208 of the Foreign Relations 
        Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1986 and 1987 (22 U.S.C. 1461-
        1a).

    (b) Limitations.--
            (1) Authorized purposes.--Materials made available under 
        this section shall be used only for academic and research 
        purposes and may not be used for public or commercial broadcast 
        purposes.
            (2) Prior agreement required.--Before making available 
        materials under subsection (a)(1), the Board shall enter into an 
        agreement with the Institute providing for--
                    (A) reimbursement of the Board for any expenses 
                involved in making such materials available;
                    (B) the establishment of guidelines by the Institute 
                for the archiving and use of the materials to ensure 
                that copyrighted works contained in those materials will 
                not be used in a manner that would violate the copyright 
                laws of the United States (including international 
                copyright conventions to which the United States is a 
                party);
                    (C) the indemnification of the United States by the 
                Institute in the event that any use of the materials 
                results in violation of the copyright laws of the United 
                States (including international copyright conventions to 
                which the United States is a party);
                    (D) the authority of the Board to terminate the 
                agreement if the provisions of paragraph (1) are 
                violated; and
                    (E) any other terms and conditions relating to the 
                materials that the Board considers appropriate.

    (c) Crediting of Reimbursements to Board Appropriations Account.--
Any reimbursement of the Board under subsection (b) shall be deposited 
as an offsetting collection to the currently applicable appropriation 
account of the Board.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1100]]

    (d) Termination of Authority.--The authority provided under this 
section shall cease to have effect on the date that is 5 years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 408. <<NOTE: Paul D. Coverdell Fellows Program Act of 2000. 22 USC 
            2517 note.>> PAUL D. COVERDELL FELLOWS PROGRAM ACT OF 2000.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Paul D. 
Coverdell Fellows Program Act of 2000''.
    (b) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Paul D. Coverdell was elected to the George State Senate 
        in 1970 and later became Minority Leader of the Georgia State 
        Senate, a post he held for 15 years.
            (2) Paul D. Coverdell served with distinction as the 11th 
        Director of the Peace Corps from 1989 to 1991, where he promoted 
        a fellowship program that was composed of returning Peace Corps 
        volunteers who agreed to work in underserved American 
        communities while they pursued educational degrees.
            (3) Paul D. Coverdell served in the United States Senate 
        from the State of Georgia from 1993 until his sudden death on 
        July 18, 2000.
            (4) Senator Paul D. Coverdell was beloved by his colleagues 
        for his civility, bipartisan efforts, and his dedication to 
        public service.

    (c) Designation of Paul D. Coverdell Fellows Program.--
            (1) In general.--Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the program under section 18 
        of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2517) referred to before such 
        date as the ``Peace Corps Fellows/ USA Program'' is redesignated 
        as the ``Paul D. Coverdell Fellows Program''.
            (2) References.--Any reference before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act in any law, regulation, order, document, 
        record, or other paper of the United States to the Peace Corps 
        Fellows/ USA Program shall, on and after such date, be 
        considered to refer to the Paul D. Coverdell Fellows Program.

    Approved October 17, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1143 (S. 2844):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-82 (Comm. on International Relations).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-335 accompanying S. 2844 (Comm. on Foreign 
Relations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Apr. 13, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Oct. 3, considered and passed 
                                        Senate, amended.
                                    Oct. 5, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Oct. 17, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>