[106th Congress Public Law 352]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ352.106]


[[Page 1369]]

   ROSIE THE RIVETER/WORLD WAR II HOME FRONT NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK 
                        ESTABLISHMENT ACT OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 1370]]

Public Law 106-352
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To establish the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National 
       Historical Park in the State of California, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 24, 2000 -  [H.R. 4063]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Rosie the 
Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park Establishment 
Act of 2000.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410gg note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home 
Front National Historical Park Establishment Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410ggg.>>  ROSIE THE RIVETER/WORLD WAR II HOME 
            FRONT NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Establishment.--In order to preserve for the benefit and 
inspiration of the people of the United States as a national historical 
park certain sites, structures, and areas located in Richmond, 
California, that are associated with the industrial, governmental, and 
citizen efforts that led to victory in World War II, there is 
established the Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National 
Historical Park (in this Act referred to as the ``park'').
    (b) Areas Included.--The boundaries of the park shall be those 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Boundary Map, Rosie 
the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical Park'' numbered 
963/80000 and dated May 2000. The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.

SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION OF THE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK. <<NOTE: 16 
            USC 410ggg-1.>> 

    (a) In General.--
            (1) General administration.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        (in this Act referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall administer 
        the park in accordance with this Act and the provisions of law 
        generally applicable to units of the National Park System, 
        including the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park 
        Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 35, 1916 (39 
        Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 through 4), and the Act of August 21, 
        1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467).
            (2) Specific authorities.--The Secretary may interpret the 
        story of Rosie the Riveter and the World War II home front, 
        conduct and maintain oral histories that relate to the World War 
        II home front theme, and provide technical assistance in the 
        preservation of historic properties that support this story.

    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 1371]]

            (1) General agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the owners of the World War II Child 
        Development Centers, the World War II worker housing, the 
        Kaiser-Permanente Field Hospital, and Fire Station 67A, pursuant 
        to which the Secretary may mark, interpret, improve, restore, 
        and provide technical assistance with respect to the 
        preservation and interpretation of such properties. Such 
        agreements shall contain, but need not be limited to, provisions 
        under which the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
        reasonable times to public portions of the property for 
        interpretive and other purposes, and that no changes or 
        alterations shall be made in the property except by mutual 
        agreement.
            (2) Limited agreements.--The Secretary may consult and enter 
        into cooperative agreements with interested persons for 
        interpretation and technical assistance with the preservation 
        of--
                    (A) the Ford Assembly Building;
                    (B) the intact dry docks/basin docks and five 
                historic structures at Richmond Shipyard #3;
                    (C) the Shimada Peace Memorial Park;
                    (D) Westshore Park;
                    (E) the Rosie the Riveter Memorial;
                    (F) Sheridan Observation Point Park;
                    (G) the Bay Trail/Esplanade;
                    (H) Vincent Park; and
                    (I) the vessel S.S. RED OAK VICTORY, and Whirley 
                Cranes associated with shipbuilding in Richmond.

    (c) Education Center.--The Secretary may establish a World War II 
Home Front Education Center in the Ford Assembly Building. Such center 
shall include a program that allows for distance learning and linkages 
to other representative sites across the country, for the purpose of 
educating the public as to the significance of the site and the World 
War II Home Front.
    (d) Use of Federal Funds.--
            (1) Non-federal matching.--(A) As a condition of expending 
        any funds appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes of the 
        cooperative agreements under subsection (b)(2), the Secretary 
        shall require that such expenditure must be matched by 
        expenditure of an equal amount of funds, goods, services, or in-
        kind contributions provided by non-Federal sources.
            (B) With the approval of the Secretary, any donation of 
        property, services, or goods from a non-Federal source may be 
        considered as a contribution of funds from a non-Federal source 
        for purposes of this paragraph.
            (2) Cooperative agreement.--Any payment made by the 
        Secretary pursuant to a cooperative agreement under this section 
        shall be subject to an agreement that conversion, use, or 
        disposal of the project so assisted for purposes contrary to the 
        purposes of this Act, as determined by the Secretary, shall 
        entitle the United States to reimbursement of the greater of--
                    (A) all funds paid by the Secretary to such project; 
                or
                    (B) the proportion of the increased value of the 
                project attributable to such payments, determined at the 
                time of such conversion, use, or disposal.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1372]]

    (e) Acquisition.--
            (1) Ford assembly building.--The Secretary may acquire a 
        leasehold interest in the Ford Assembly Building for the 
        purposes of operating a World War II Home Front Education 
        Center.
            (2) Other facilities.--The Secretary may acquire, from 
        willing sellers, lands or interests in the World War II day care 
        centers, the World War II worker housing, the Kaiser-Permanente 
        Field Hospital, and Fire Station 67, through donation, purchase 
        with donated or appropriated funds, transfer from any other 
        Federal agency, or exchange.
            (3) Artifacts.--The Secretary may acquire and provide for 
        the curation of historic artifacts that relate to the park.

    (f ) Donations.--The Secretary may accept and use donations of 
funds, property, and services to carry out this Act.
    (g) General Management Plan.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 3 
        complete fiscal years after the date funds are made available, 
        the Secretary shall prepare, in consultation with the City of 
        Richmond, California, and transmit to the Committee on Resources 
        of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate a general management plan for 
        the park in accordance with the provisions of section 12(b) of 
        the Act of August 18, 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)), popularly known 
        as the National Park System General Authorities Act, and other 
        applicable law.
            (2) Preservation of setting.--The general management plan 
        shall include a plan to preserve the historic setting of the 
        Rosie the Riveter/World War II Home Front National Historical 
        Park, which shall be jointly developed and approved by the City 
        of Richmond.
            (3) Additional sites.--The general management plan shall 
        include a determination of whether there are additional 
        representative sites in Richmond that should be added to the 
        park or sites in the rest of the United States that relate to 
        the industrial, governmental, and citizen efforts during World 
        War II that should be linked to and interpreted at the park. 
        Such determination shall consider any information or findings 
        developed in the National Park Service study of the World War II 
        Home Front under section 4.

SEC. 4. WORLD WAR II HOME FRONT STUDY. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410ggg-2.>> 

    The Secretary shall conduct a theme study of the World War II home 
front to determine whether other sites in the United States meet the 
criteria for potential inclusion in the National Park System in 
accordance with section 8 of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-5).

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410ggg-3.>> 

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Oral histories, preservation, and visitor services.--
        There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
        necessary to conduct oral histories and to carry out the 
        preservation, interpretation, education, and other essential 
        visitor services provided for by this Act.
            (2) Artifacts.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        $1,000,000 for the acquisition and curation of historical 
        artifacts related to the park.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1373]]

    (b) Property Acquisition.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
such sums as are necessary to acquire the properties listed in section 
3(e)(2).
    (c) Limitation on Use of Funds for S.S. RED OAK VICTORY.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this section may be used for 
the operation, maintenance, or preservation of the vessel S.S. RED OAK 
VICTORY.

    Approved October 24, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4063:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-723 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-446 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            July 11, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>