[106th Congress Public Law 300]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ300.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 1055]]

Public Law 106-300
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the Red River National Wildlife Refuge. <<NOTE: Oct. 13, 
                         2000 -  [H.R. 4318]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Red River National Wildlife 
Refuge Act. Louisiana. 16 USC 668dd note.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Red River National Wildlife Refuge 
Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The area of Louisiana known as the Red River Valley, 
        located along the Red River Waterway in Caddo, Bossier, Red 
        River, Natchitoches, and De Soto Parishes, is of critical 
        importance to over 350 species of birds (including migratory and 
        resident waterfowl, shore birds, and neotropical migratory 
        birds), aquatic life, and a wide array of other species 
        associated with river basin ecosystems.
            (2) The bottomland hardwood forests of the Red River Valley 
        have been almost totally cleared. Reforestation and restoration 
        of native habitat will benefit a host of species.
            (3) The Red River Valley is part of a major continental 
        migration corridor for migratory birds funneling through the mid 
        continent from as far north as the Arctic Circle and as far 
        south as South America.
            (4) There are no significant public sanctuaries for over 300 
        river miles on this important migration corridor, and no 
        significant Federal, State, or private wildlife sanctuaries 
        along the Red River north of Alexandria, Louisiana.
            (5) Completion of the lock and dam system associated with 
        the Red River Waterway project up to Shreveport, Louisiana, has 
        enhanced opportunities for management of fish and wildlife.
            (6) The Red River Valley offers extraordinary recreational, 
        research, and educational opportunities for students, 
        scientists, bird watchers, wildlife observers, hunters, anglers, 
        trappers, hikers, and nature photographers.
            (7) The Red River Valley is an internationally significant 
        environmental resource that has been neglected and requires 
        active restoration and management to protect and enhance the 
        value of the region as a habitat for fish and wildlife.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSES OF REFUGE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish the Red River 
        National Wildlife Refuge, consisting of approximately

[[Page 114 STAT. 1056]]

        50,000 acres of Federal lands, waters, and interests therein 
        within the boundaries depicted upon the map entitled ``Red River 
        National Wildlife Refuge--Selection Area'', dated September 5, 
        2000.
            (2) Boundary revisions.--The Secretary shall make such minor 
        revisions of the boundaries of the Refuge as may be appropriate 
        to carry out the purposes of the Refuge or to facilitate the 
        acquisition of property within the Refuge.
            (3) Availability of map.--The Secretary shall keep the map 
        referred to in paragraph (1) available for inspection in 
        appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Refuge are the following:
            (1) To provide for the restoration and conservation of 
        native plants and animal communities on suitable sites in the 
        Red River basin, including restoration of extirpated species.
            (2) To provide habitat for migratory birds.
            (3) To provide technical assistance to private land owners 
        in the restoration of their lands for the benefit of fish and 
        wildlife.

    (c) <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>  Effective Date.--The 
establishment of the Refuge under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date the Secretary publishes, in the Federal Register 
and publications of local circulation in the vicinity of the area within 
the boundaries referred to in that paragraph, a notice that sufficient 
property has been acquired by the United States within those boundaries 
to constitute an area that can be efficiently managed as a National 
Wildlife Refuge.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF REFUGE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer all lands, waters, 
and interests therein acquired under section 5 in accordance with--
            (1) the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act 
        of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) and the Act of September 28, 
        1962 (76 Stat. 653; 16 U.S.C. 460k et seq.; commonly known as 
        the Refuge Recreation Act);
            (2) the purposes of the Refuge set forth in section 3(b); 
        and
            (3) the management plan issued under subsection (b).

    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 18 
        months after the date of the establishment of the Refuge, the 
        Secretary shall issue a management plan for the Refuge.
            (2) Contents.--The management plan shall include provisions 
        that provide for the following:
                    (A) Planning and design of trails and access points.
                    (B) Planning of wildlife and habitat restoration, 
                including reforestation.
                    (C) Permanent exhibits and facilities and regular 
                educational programs throughout the Refuge.
                    (D) Ensuring that compatible hunting, fishing, 
                wildlife observation and photography, and environmental 
                education and interpretation are the priority general 
                public uses of the Refuge, in accordance with section 
                4(a)(3) and (4) of the National Wildlife Refuge System 
                Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668ee(a)(3), (4)).

[[Page 114 STAT. 1057]]

            (3) Public participation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall provide an 
                opportunity for public participation in developing the 
                management plan.
                    (B) Local views.--The Secretary shall give special 
                consideration to views by local public and private 
                entities and individuals in developing the management 
                plan.

    (c) Wildlife Interpretation and Education Center.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall construct, administer, 
        and maintain, at an appropriate site within the Refuge, a 
        wildlife interpretation and education center.
            (2) Purposes.--The center shall be designed and operated--
                    (A) to promote environmental education; and
                    (B) to provide an opportunity for the study and 
                enjoyment of wildlife in its natural habitat.

    (d) Assistance to Red River Waterway Commission.--The Secretary 
shall provide to the Red River Waterway Commission--
            (1) technical assistance in monitoring water quality, 
        noxious plants, and exotic organisms, and in preventing 
        siltation of prime fisheries habitat; and
            (2) where appropriate and available, fish for stocking.

SEC. 5. ACQUISITION OF LANDS, WATERS, AND INTERESTS THEREIN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire up to 50,000 acres of 
lands, waters, or interests therein within the boundaries of the Refuge 
described in section 3(a)(1).
    (b) Inclusion in Refuge.--Any lands, waters, or interests acquired 
by the Secretary under this section shall be part of the Refuge.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums 
as may be necessary to carry out this Act.

SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act:
            (1) Refuge.--The term ``Refuge'' means the Red River 
        National Wildlife Refuge established under section 3.

[[Page 114 STAT. 1058]]

            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

    Approved October 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4318:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-809 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-462 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Sept. 12, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 4, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>