[106th Congress Public Law 99]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ099.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 1330]]

Public Law 106-99
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To direct the Librarian of Congress to prepare the history of the House 
      of Representatives, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 
                         1999 -  [H.R. 2303]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: History of the House 
Awareness and Preservation Act.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE:  2 USC 183 note.>> SHORT TITLE.
2 USC 183 
note.

    This Act may be cited as the ``History of the House Awareness and 
Preservation Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 2 USC 183.>> WRITTEN HISTORY OF THE HOUSE OF 
            REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to available funding and in accordance with 
the requirements of this Act, the Librarian of Congress shall prepare, 
print, distribute, and arrange for the funding of, a new and complete 
written history of the House of Representatives, in consultation with 
the Committee on House Administration. In preparing this written 
history, the Librarian of Congress shall consult, commission, or engage 
the services or participation of, eminent historians, Members, and 
former Members of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Guidelines.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Librarian of 
Congress shall take into account the following:
            (1) The history should be an illustrated, narrative history 
        of the House of Representatives, organized chronologically.
            (2) The history's intended audience is the general reader, 
        as well as Members of Congress and their staffs.
            (3) The history should include a discussion of the First and 
        Second Continental Congresses and the Constitutional Convention, 
        especially with regard to their roles in creating the House of 
        Representatives.

    (c) Printing.--
            (1) In general.--The Librarian of Congress shall arrange for 
        the printing of the history.
            (2) Printing arrangements.--The printing may be performed--
                    (A) by the Public Printer pursuant to the provisions 
                of chapter 5 of title 44, United States Code;
                    (B) under a cooperative arrangement among the 
                Librarian of Congress, a private funding source obtained 
                pursuant to subsection (e), and a publisher in the 
                private sector; or
                    (C) under subparagraphs (A) and (B).

[[Page 109 STAT. 1331]]

            (3) Internet dissemination.--Any arrangement under paragraph 
        (2) shall include terms for dissemination of the history over 
        the Internet via facilities maintained by the United States 
        Government.
            (4) Member copies.--To the extent that the history is 
        printed by the Public Printer, copies of the history provided to 
        the Congress under subsection (d) shall be charged to the 
        Government Printing Office's congressional allotment for 
        printing and binding.

    (d) Distribution.--The Librarian of Congress shall make the history 
available for sale to the public, and shall make available, free of 
charge, 5 copies to each Member of the House of Representatives and 250 
copies to the Senate.
    (e) Private Funding.--The Librarian of Congress shall solicit and 
accept funding for the preparation, publication, marketing, and public 
distribution of the history from private individuals, organizations, or 
entities.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 2 USC 183a.>> ORAL HISTORY OF THE HOUSE OF 
            REPRESENTATIVES.

    (a) In General.--The Librarian of Congress shall accept for deposit, 
preserve, maintain, and make accessible an oral history of the House of 
Representatives, as told by its Members and former Members, compiled and 
updated (on a voluntary or contract basis) by the United States 
Association of Former Members of Congress or other private organization. 
In carrying out this section, the Librarian of Congress may enlist the 
voluntary aid or assistance of such organization, or may contract with 
it for such services as may be necessary.
    (b) Definition of Oral History.--In this section, the term ``oral 
history'' means a story or history consisting of personal recollection 
as recorded by any one or more of the following means:
            (1) Interviews.
            (2) Transcripts.
            (3) Audio recordings.
            (4) Video recordings.
            (5) Such other form or means as may be suitable for the 
        recording and preservation of such information.

SEC. 4. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) orientation programs for freshman Members of the House 
        of Representatives should contain a seminar on the history of 
        the House of Representatives; and
            (2) the Speaker of the House of Representatives should 
        conduct a series of forums on the topic of the history of the 
        House of Representatives.

    Approved November 12, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2303:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 25, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 29, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>