[106th Congress Public Law 243]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ243.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 497]]

Public Law 106-243
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior, the Bureau of Reclamation, to 
 conduct a feasibility study on the Jicarilla Apache Reservation in the 
     State of New Mexico, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: July 10, 
                         2000 -  [H.R. 3051]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) there are major deficiencies with regard to adequate and 
        sufficient water supplies available to residents of the 
        Jicarilla Apache Reservation in the State of New Mexico;
            (2) the existing municipal water system that serves the 
        Jicarilla Apache Reservation is under the ownership and control 
        of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and is outdated, dilapidated, 
        and cannot adequately and safely serve the existing and future 
        growth needs of the Jicarilla Apache Tribe;
            (3) the federally owned municipal water system on the 
        Jicarilla Apache Reservation has been unable to meet the minimum 
        Federal water requirements necessary for discharging wastewater 
        into a public watercourse and has been operating without a 
        Federal discharge permit;
            (4) the federally owned municipal water system that serves 
        the Jicarilla Apache Reservation has been cited by the United 
        States Environmental Protection Agency for violations of Federal 
        safe drinking water standards and poses a threat to public 
        health and safety both on and off the Jicarilla Apache 
        Reservation;
            (5) the lack of reliable supplies of potable water impedes 
        economic development and has detrimental effects on the quality 
        of life and economic self-sufficiency of the Jicarilla Apache 
        Tribe;
            (6) due to the severe health threats and impediments to 
        economic development, the Jicarilla Apache Tribe has authorized 
        and expended $4,500,000 of tribal funds for the repair and 
        replacement of the municipal water system on the Jicarilla 
        Apache Reservation; and
            (7) the United States has a trust responsibility to ensure 
        that adequate and safe water supplies are available to meet the 
        economic, environmental, water supply, and public health needs 
        of the Jicarilla Apache Indian Reservation.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Authorization.--Pursuant to reclamation laws, the Secretary of 
the Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation and

[[Page 114 STAT. 498]]

in consultation and cooperation with the Jicarilla Apache Tribe, shall 
conduct a feasibility study to determine the most feasible method of 
developing a safe and adequate municipal, rural, and industrial water 
supply for the residents of the Jicarilla Apache Indian Reservation in 
the State of New Mexico.
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Report.--Not later than 1 year after funds 
are appropriated to carry out this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall transmit to Congress a report containing the results of the 
feasibility study required by subsection (a).

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated $200,000 to carry out this 
Act.

    Approved July 10, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3051:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    June 28, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>