[106th Congress Private Law 12]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl012.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 3106]]

Private Law 106-12
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Luis A. Leon-Molina, Ligia Padron, Juan Leon Padron, 
          Rendy Leon Padron, Manuel Leon Padron, and Luis Leon 
             Padron. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 2000 -  [H.R. 3414]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENCE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for 
purposes of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), 
Luis A. Leon-Molina, Ligia Padron, Juan Leon Padron, Rendy Leon Padron, 
Manuel Leon Padron, and Luis Leon Padron shall each be held and 
considered to have been selected for a diversity immigrant visa for 
fiscal year 2001 as of the date of the enactment of this Act upon 
payment of the required visa fee.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Luis A. Leon-Molina, Ligia Padron, 
Juan Leon Padron, Rendy Leon Padron, Manuel Leon Padron, or Luis Leon 
Padron enters the United States before the date of the enactment of this 
Act, he or she shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully 
and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 2. REDUCTION OF NUMBER OF AVAILABLE VISAS.

    Upon the granting of permanent residence to Luis A. Leon-Molina, 
Ligia Padron, Juan Leon Padron, Rendy Leon Padron, Manuel Leon Padron, 
and Luis Leon Padron as provided in this Act, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by six during the current 
fiscal year the total number of immigrant visas available to natives of 
the country of the aliens' birth under section 203(c) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(c)).

    Approved November 9, 2000.