[106th Congress Public Law 264]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ264.106]


[[Page 748]]

             GLOBAL AIDS AND TUBERCULOSIS RELIEF ACT OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 748]]

Public Law 106-264
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide for negotiations for the creation of a trust fund to be 
     administered by the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
 Development or the International Development Association to combat the 
         AIDS epidemic. <<NOTE: Aug. 19, 2000 -  [H.R. 3519]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Global AIDS and 
Tuberculosis Relief Act of 2000. Health and health 
care. Diseases.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6801 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Global AIDS and Tuberculosis Relief 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

 TITLE I--ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES WITH LARGE POPULATIONS HAVING HIV/AIDS

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Findings and purposes.

                  Subtitle A--United States Assistance

Sec. 111. Additional assistance authorities to combat HIV and AIDS.
Sec. 112. Voluntary contribution to Global Alliance for Vaccines and 
           Immunizations and International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.
Sec. 113. Coordinated donor strategy for support and education of 
           orphans in sub-Saharan Africa.
Sec. 114. African Crisis Response Initiative and HIV/AIDS training.

                 Subtitle B--World Bank AIDS Trust Fund

                  Chapter 1--Establishment of the Fund

Sec. 121. Establishment.
Sec. 122. Grant authorities.
Sec. 123. Administration.
Sec. 124. Advisory Board.

                           Chapter 2--Reports

Sec. 131. Reports to Congress.

            Chapter 3--United States Financial Participation

Sec. 141. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 142. Certification requirement.

              TITLE II--INTERNATIONAL TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Findings.
Sec. 203. Assistance for tuberculosis prevention, treatment, control, 
           and elimination.

[[Page 114 STAT. 749]]

                  TITLE III--ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES

Sec. 301. Effective program oversight.
Sec. 302. Termination expenses.

    TITLE <<NOTE: Global AIDS Research and Relief Act of 2000.>> I--
ASSISTANCE TO COUNTRIES WITH LARGE POPULATIONS HAVING HIV/AIDS

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6801 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Global AIDS Research and Relief Act 
of 2000''.

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6801 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) AIDS.--The term ``AIDS'' means the acquired immune 
        deficiency syndrome.
            (2) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the 
        International Development Association.
            (3) Bank.--The term ``Bank'' or ``World Bank'' means the 
        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
            (4) HIV.--The term ``HIV'' means the human immunodeficiency 
        virus, the pathogen which causes AIDS.
            (5) HIV/AIDS.--The term ``HIV/AIDS'' means, with respect to 
        an individual, an individual who is infected with HIV or living 
        with AIDS.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6802.>> FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) According to the Surgeon General of the United States, 
        the epidemic of human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune 
        deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) will soon become the worst 
        epidemic of infectious disease in recorded history, eclipsing 
        both the bubonic plague of the 1300's and the influenza epidemic 
        of 1918-1919 which killed more than 20,000,000 people worldwide.
            (2) According to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/
        AIDS (UNAIDS), more than 34,300,000 people in the world today 
        are living with HIV/AIDS, of which approximately 95 percent live 
        in the developing world.
            (3) UNAIDS data shows that among children age 14 and under 
        worldwide, more than 3,800,000 have died from AIDS, more than 
        1,300,000 are living with the disease; and in 1 year alone--
        1999--an estimated 620,000 became infected, of which over 90 
        percent were babies born to HIV-positive women.
            (4) Although sub-Saharan Africa has only 10 percent of the 
        world's population, it is home to more than 24,500,000--roughly 
        70 percent--of the world's HIV/AIDS cases.
            (5) Worldwide, there have already been an estimated 
        18,800,000 deaths because of HIV/AIDS, of which more than 80 
        percent occurred in sub-Saharan Africa.
            (6) The gap between rich and poor countries in terms of 
        transmission of HIV from mother to child has been increasing. 
        Moreover, AIDS threatens to reverse years of steady progress of 
        child survival in developing countries. UNAIDS believes that by 
        the year 2010, AIDS may have increased

[[Page 114 STAT. 750]]

        mortality of children under 5 years of age by more than 100 
        percent in regions most affected by the virus.
            (7) According to UNAIDS, by the end of 1999, 13,200,000 
        children have lost at least one parent to AIDS, including 
        12,100,000 children in sub-Saharan Africa, and are thus 
        considered AIDS orphans.
            (8) At current infection and growth rates for HIV/AIDS, the 
        National Intelligence Council estimates that the number of AIDS 
        orphans worldwide will increase dramatically, potentially 
        increasing threefold or more in the next 10 years, contributing 
        to economic decay, social fragmentation, and political 
        destabilization in already volatile and strained societies. 
        Children without care or hope are often drawn into prostitution, 
        crime, substance abuse, or child soldiery.
            (9) Donors must focus on adequate preparations for the 
        explosion in the number of orphans and the burden they will 
        place on families, communities, economies, and governments. 
        Support structures and incentives for families, communities, and 
        institutions which will provide care for children orphaned by 
        HIV/AIDS, or for the children who are themselves afflicted by 
        HIV/AIDS, will be essential.
            (10) The 1999 annual report by the United Nations Children's 
        Fund (UNICEF) states ``[t]he number of orphans, particularly in 
        Africa, constitutes nothing less than an emergency, requiring an 
        emergency response'' and that ``finding the resources needed to 
        help stabilize the crisis and protect children is a priority 
        that requires urgent action from the international community.''.
            (11) The discovery of a relatively simple and inexpensive 
        means of interrupting the transmission of HIV from an infected 
        mother to the unborn child--namely with nevirapine (NVP), which 
        costs US$4 a tablet--has created a great opportunity for an 
        unprecedented partnership between the United States Government 
        and the governments of Asian, African and Latin American 
        countries to reduce mother-to-child transmission (also known as 
        ``vertical transmission'') of HIV.
            (12) According to UNAIDS, if implemented this strategy will 
        decrease the proportion of orphans that are HIV-infected and 
        decrease infant and child mortality rates in these developing 
        regions.
            (13) A mother-to-child antiretroviral drug strategy can be a 
        force for social change, providing the opportunity and impetus 
        needed to address often long-standing problems of inadequate 
        services and the profound stigma associated with HIV-infection 
        and the AIDS disease. Strengthening the health infrastructure to 
        improve mother-and-child health, antenatal, delivery and 
        postnatal services, and couples counseling generates enormous 
        spillover effects toward combating the AIDS epidemic in 
        developing regions.
            (14) United States Census Bureau statistics show life 
        expectancy in sub-Saharan Africa falling to around 30 years of 
        age within a decade, the lowest in a century, and project life 
        expectancy in 2010 to be 29 years of age in Botswana, 30 years 
        of age in Swaziland, 33 years of age in Namibia and Zimbabwe, 
        and 36 years of age in South Africa, Malawi, and Rwanda, in 
        contrast to a life expectancy of 70 years of

[[Page 114 STAT. 751]]

        age in many of the countries without a high prevalence of AIDS.
            (15) A January 2000 United States National Intelligence 
        Estimate (NIE) report on the global infectious disease threat 
        concluded that the economic costs of infectious diseases--
        especially HIV/AIDS--are already significant and could reduce 
        GDP by as much as 20 percent or more by 2010 in some sub-Saharan 
        African nations.
            (16) According to the same NIE report, HIV prevalence among 
        militias in Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo are 
        estimated at 40 to 60 percent, and at 15 to 30 percent in 
        Tanzania.
            (17) The HIV/AIDS epidemic is of increasing concern in other 
        regions of the world, with UNAIDS estimating that there are more 
        than 5,600,000 cases in South and South-east Asia, that the rate 
        of HIV infection in the Caribbean is second only to sub-Saharan 
        Africa, and that HIV infections have doubled in just 2 years in 
        the former Soviet Union.
            (18) Despite the discouraging statistics on the spread of 
        HIV/AIDS, some developing nations--such as Uganda, Senegal, and 
        Thailand--have implemented prevention programs that have 
        substantially curbed the rate of HIV infection.
            (19) AIDS, like all diseases, knows no national boundaries, 
        and there is no certitude that the scale of the problem in one 
        continent can be contained within that region.
            (20) Accordingly, United States financial support for 
        medical research, education, and disease containment as a global 
        strategy has beneficial ramifications for millions of Americans 
        and their families who are affected by this disease, and the 
        entire population which is potentially susceptible.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are to--
            (1) help prevent human suffering through the prevention, 
        diagnosis, and treatment of HIV/AIDS; and
            (2) help ensure the viability of economic development, 
        stability, and national security in the developing world by 
        advancing research to--
                    (A) understand the causes associated with HIV/AIDS 
                in developing countries; and
                    (B) assist in the development of an AIDS vaccine.

                  Subtitle A--United States Assistance

SEC. 111. ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE AUTHORITIES TO COMBAT HIV AND AIDS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Children and youth.>> Assistance for Prevention of HIV/
AIDS and Vertical Transmission.--Section 104(c) of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151b(c)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new paragraphs:

    ``(4)(A) Congress recognizes the growing international dilemma of 
children with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the merits of 
intervention programs aimed at this problem. Congress further recognizes 
that mother-to-child transmission prevention strategies can serve as a 
major force for change in developing regions, and it is, therefore, a 
major objective of the foreign assistance program to control the 
acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) epidemic.

[[Page 114 STAT. 752]]

    ``(B) The agency primarily responsible for administering this part 
shall--
            ``(i) coordinate with UNAIDS, UNICEF, WHO, national and 
        local governments, and other organizations to develop and 
        implement effective strategies to prevent vertical transmission 
        of HIV; and
            ``(ii) coordinate with those organizations to increase 
        intervention programs and introduce voluntary counseling and 
        testing, antiretroviral drugs, replacement feeding, and other 
        strategies.

    ``(5)(A) Congress expects the agency primarily responsible for 
administering this part to make the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
and the acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) a priority in the 
foreign assistance program and to undertake a comprehensive, coordinated 
effort to combat HIV and AIDS.
    ``(B) Assistance described in subparagraph (A) shall include help 
providing--
            ``(i) primary prevention and education;
            ``(ii) voluntary testing and counseling;
            ``(iii) medications to prevent the transmission of HIV from 
        mother to child; and
            ``(iv) care for those living with HIV or AIDS.

    ``(6)(A) In addition to amounts otherwise available for such 
purpose, there is authorized to be appropriated to the President 
$300,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 to carry out 
paragraphs (4) and (5).
    ``(B) Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under subparagraph 
(A), not less than 65 percent is authorized to be available through 
United States and foreign nongovernmental organizations, including 
private and voluntary organizations, for-profit organizations, religious 
affiliated organizations, educational institutions, and research 
facilities.
    ``(C)(i) Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by subparagraph 
(A), not less than 20 percent is authorized to be available for programs 
as part of a multidonor strategy to address the support and education of 
orphans in sub-Saharan Africa, including AIDS orphans.
    ``(ii) Assistance made available under this subsection, and 
assistance made available under chapter 4 of part II to carry out the 
purposes of this subsection, may be made available notwithstanding any 
other provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries.
    ``(D) Of the funds authorized to be appropriated under subparagraph 
(A), not less than 8.3 percent is authorized to be available to carry 
out the prevention strategies for vertical transmission referred to in 
paragraph (4)(A).
    ``(E) Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by subparagraph 
(A), not more than 7 percent may be used for the administrative expenses 
of the agency primarily responsible for carrying out this part of this 
Act in support of activities described in paragraphs (4) and (5).
    ``(F) Funds appropriated under this paragraph are authorized to 
remain available until expended.''.
    (b) Training and Training Facilities in Sub-Saharan Africa.--Section 
496(i)(2) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2293(i)(2)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following

[[Page 114 STAT. 753]]

new sentence: ``In addition, providing training and training facilities, 
in sub-Saharan Africa, for doctors and other health care providers, 
notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts assistance to 
foreign countries.''.

SEC. 112. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTION TO GLOBAL ALLIANCE FOR VACCINES AND 
            IMMUNIZATIONS AND INTERNATIONAL AIDS VACCINE INITIATIVE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 302 of the Foreign 
Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2222) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsections:
    ``(k) In addition to amounts otherwise available under this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated to the President $50,000,000 for 
each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 to be available only for United 
States contributions to the Global Alliance for Vaccines and 
Immunizations.
    ``(l) In addition to amounts otherwise available under this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated to the President $10,000,000 for 
each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 to be available only for United 
States contributions to the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative.''.
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>> Report.--At the close of fiscal 
year 2001, the President shall submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees on the effectiveness of the Global Alliance for 
Vaccines and Immunizations and the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative 
during that fiscal year in meeting the goals of--
            (1) improving access to sustainable immunization services;
            (2) expanding the use of all existing, safe, and cost-
        effective vaccines where they address a public health problem;
            (3) accelerating the development and introduction of new 
        vaccines and technologies;
            (4) accelerating research and development efforts for 
        vaccines needed primarily in developing countries; and
            (5) making immunization coverage a centerpiece in 
        international development efforts.

    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In subsection 
(b), the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the 
Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of 
the Senate and the Committee on International Relations and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 113. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6811.>> COORDINATED DONOR STRATEGY FOR SUPPORT 
            AND EDUCATION OF ORPHANS IN SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is in the national interest of the 
United States to assist in mitigating the burden that will be placed on 
sub-Saharan African social, economic, and political institutions as 
these institutions struggle with the consequences of a dramatically 
increasing AIDS orphan population, many of whom are themselves infected 
by HIV and living with AIDS. Effectively addressing that burden and its 
consequences in sub-Saharan Africa will require a coordinated multidonor 
strategy.
    (b) <<NOTE: President.>> Development of Strategy.--The President 
shall coordinate the development of a multidonor strategy to provide for 
the support and education of AIDS orphans and the families, communities, 
and institutions most affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in sub-Saharan 
Africa.

[[Page 114 STAT. 754]]

    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``HIV/AIDS'' means, with 
respect to an individual, an individual who is infected with the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the pathogen that causes the acquired 
immune deficiency virus (AIDS), or living with AIDS.

SEC. 114. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6812.>> AFRICAN CRISIS RESPONSE INITIATIVE AND 
            HIV/AIDS TRAINING.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the spread of HIV/AIDS constitutes a threat to security 
        in Africa;
            (2) civil unrest and war may contribute to the spread of the 
        disease to different parts of the continent;
            (3) the percentage of soldiers in African militaries who are 
        infected with HIV/AIDS is unknown, but estimates range in some 
        countries as high as 40 percent; and
            (4) it is in the interests of the United States to assist 
        the countries of Africa in combating the spread of HIV/AIDS.

    (b) Education on the Prevention of the Spread of AIDS.--In 
undertaking education and training programs for military establishments 
in African countries, the United States shall ensure that classroom 
training under the African Crisis Response Initiative includes military-
based education on the prevention of the spread of AIDS.

                 Subtitle B--World Bank AIDS Trust Fund

                  CHAPTER 1--ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FUND

SEC. 121. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6821.>> ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) Negotiations for Establishment of Trust Fund.--The Secretary of 
the Treasury shall seek to enter into negotiations with the World Bank 
or the Association, in consultation with the Administrator of the United 
States Agency for International Development and other United States 
Government agencies, and with the member nations of the World Bank or 
the Association and with other interested parties, for the establishment 
within the World Bank of--
            (1) the World Bank AIDS Trust Fund (in this subtitle 
        referred to as the ``Trust Fund'') in accordance with the 
        provisions of this chapter; and
            (2) the Advisory Board to the Trust Fund in accordance with 
        section 124.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Trust Fund should be to use 
contributed funds to--
            (1) assist in the prevention and eradication of HIV/AIDS and 
        the care and treatment of individuals infected with HIV/AIDS; 
        and
            (2) provide support for the establishment of programs that 
        provide health care and primary and secondary education for 
        children orphaned by the HIV/AIDS epidemic.

    (c) Composition.--
            (1) In general.--The Trust Fund should be governed by a 
        Board of Trustees, which should be composed of representatives 
        of the participating donor countries to the Trust Fund. 
        Individuals appointed to the Board should have demonstrated

[[Page 114 STAT. 755]]

        knowledge and experience in the fields of public health, 
        epidemiology, health care (including delivery systems), and 
        development.
            (2) United states representation.--
                    (A) <<NOTE: President. Congress.>> In general.--Upon 
                the effective date of this paragraph, there shall be a 
                United States member of the Board of Trustees, who shall 
                be appointed by the President, by and with the advice 
                and consent of the Senate, and who shall have the 
                qualifications described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Effective and termination dates.--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Certification.>> Effective date.--
                      This paragraph shall take effect upon the date the 
                      Secretary of the Treasury certifies to Congress 
                      that an agreement establishing the Trust Fund and 
                      providing for a United States member of the Board 
                      of Trustees is in effect.
                          (ii) Termination date.--The position 
                      established by subparagraph (A) is abolished upon 
                      the date of termination of the Trust Fund.

SEC. 122. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6822.>> GRANT AUTHORITIES.

    (a) Program Objectives.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the purpose of section 
        121(b), the Trust Fund, acting through the Board of Trustees, 
        should provide only grants, including grants for technical 
        assistance to support measures to build local capacity in 
        national and local government, civil society, and the private 
        sector to lead and implement effective and affordable HIV/AIDS 
        prevention, education, treatment and care services, and research 
        and development activities, including access to affordable 
        drugs.
            (2) Activities supported.--Among the activities the Trust 
        Fund should provide grants for should be--
                    (A) programs to promote the best practices in 
                prevention, including health education messages that 
                emphasize risk avoidance such as abstinence;
                    (B) measures to ensure a safe blood supply;
                    (C) voluntary HIV/AIDS testing and counseling;
                    (D) measures to stop mother-to-child transmission of 
                HIV/AIDS, including through diagnosis of pregnant women, 
                access to cost-effective treatment and counseling, and 
                access to infant formula or other alternatives for 
                infant feeding;
                    (E) programs to provide for the support and 
                education of AIDS orphans and the families, communities, 
                and institutions most affected by the HIV/AIDS epidemic;
                    (F) measures for the deterrence of gender-based 
                violence and the provision of post-exposure prophylaxis 
                to victims of rape and sexual assault; and
                    (G) incentives to promote affordable access to 
                treatments against AIDS and related infections.
            (3) Implementation of program objectives.--In carrying out 
        the objectives of paragraph (1), the Trust Fund should 
        coordinate its activities with governments, civil society, 
        nongovernmental organizations, the Joint United Nations Program 
        on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the International Partnership Against AIDS 
        in Africa, other international organizations, the private 
        sector, and donor agencies working to combat the HIV/AIDS 
        crisis.

[[Page 114 STAT. 756]]

    (b) Priority.--In providing grants under this section, the Trust 
Fund should give priority to countries that have the highest HIV/AIDS 
prevalence rate or are at risk of having a high HIV/AIDS prevalence 
rate.
    (c) Eligible Grant Recipients.--Governments and nongovernmental 
organizations should be eligible to receive grants under this section.
    (d) Prohibition.--The Trust Fund should not make grants for the 
purpose of project development associated with bilateral or multilateral 
bank loans.

SEC. 123. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6823.>> ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Appointment of an Administrator.--The Board of Trustees, in 
consultation with the appropriate officials of the Bank, should appoint 
an Administrator who should be responsible for managing the day-to-day 
operations of the Trust Fund.
    (b) Authority to Solicit and Accept Contributions.--The Trust Fund 
should be authorized to solicit and accept contributions from 
governments, the private sector, and nongovernmental entities of all 
kinds.
    (c) Accountability of Funds and Criteria for Programs.--As part of 
the negotiations described in section 121(a), the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall, consistent with subsection (d)--
            (1) take such actions as are necessary to ensure that the 
        Bank or the Association will have in effect adequate procedures 
        and standards to account for and monitor the use of funds 
        contributed to the Trust Fund, including the cost of 
        administering the Trust Fund; and
            (2) seek agreement on the criteria that should be used to 
        determine the programs and activities that should be assisted by 
        the Trust Fund.

    (d) Selection of projects and recipients.--The Board of Trustees 
should establish--
            (1) criteria for the selection of projects to receive 
        support from the Trust Fund;
            (2) standards and criteria regarding qualifications of 
        recipients of such support;
            (3) such rules and procedures as may be necessary for cost-
        effective management of the Trust Fund; and
            (4) such rules and procedures as may be necessary to ensure 
        transparency and accountability in the grant-making process.

    (e) Transparency of operations.--The Board of Trustees should ensure 
full and prompt public disclosure of the proposed objectives, financial 
organization, and operations of the Trust Fund.

SEC. 124. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6824.>> ADVISORY BOARD.

    (a) In General.--There should be an Advisory Board to the Trust 
Fund.
    (b) Appointments.--The members of the Advisory Board should be drawn 
from--
            (1) a broad range of individuals with experience and 
        leadership in the fields of development, health care (especially 
        HIV/AIDS), epidemiology, medicine, biomedical research, and 
        social sciences; and
            (2) representatives of relevant United Nations agencies and 
        nongovernmental organizations with on-the-ground experience in 
        affected countries.

[[Page 114 STAT. 757]]

    (c) Responsibilities.--The Advisory Board should provide advice and 
guidance to the Board of Trustees on the development and implementation 
of programs and projects to be assisted by the Trust Fund and on 
leveraging donations to the Trust Fund.
    (d) Prohibition on Payment of Compensation.--
            (1) In general.--Except for travel expenses (including per 
        diem in lieu of subsistence), no member of the Advisory Board 
        should receive compensation for services performed as a member 
        of the Board.
            (2) United states representative.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law (including an international agreement), a 
        representative of the United States on the Advisory Board may 
        not accept compensation for services performed as a member of 
        the Board, except that such representative may accept travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, while away 
        from the representative's home or regular place of business in 
        the performance of services for the Board.

                           CHAPTER 2--REPORTS

SEC. 131. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6831.>> REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Annual Reports by Treasury Secretary.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> In general.--Not later than 1 year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
        thereafter for the duration of the Trust Fund, the Secretary of 
        the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report on the Trust Fund.
            (2) Report elements.--The report shall include a description 
        of--
                    (A) the goals of the Trust Fund;
                    (B) the programs, projects, and activities, 
                including any vaccination approaches, supported by the 
                Trust Fund;
                    (C) private and governmental contributions to the 
                Trust Fund; and
                    (D) the criteria that have been established, 
                acceptable to the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
                Administrator of the United States Agency for 
                International Development, that would be used to 
                determine the programs and activities that should be 
                assisted by the Trust Fund.

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>> GAO Report on Trust Fund Effectiveness.--Not 
later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of the Congress a report evaluating the effectiveness of the 
Trust Fund, including--
            (1) the effectiveness of the programs, projects, and 
        activities described in subsection (a)(2)(B) in reducing the 
        worldwide spread of AIDS; and
            (2) an assessment of the merits of continued United States 
        financial contributions to the Trust Fund.

    (c) Appropriate Committees Defined.--In subsection (a), the term 
``appropriate committees'' means the Committee on Foreign Relations and 
the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on 
International Relations, the Committee on Banking and Financial 
Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

[[Page 114 STAT. 758]]

            CHAPTER 3--UNITED STATES FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION

SEC. 141. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6841.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--In addition to any other funds authorized to be 
appropriated for multilateral or bilateral programs related to HIV/AIDS 
or economic development, there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of the Treasury $150,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2001 
and 2002 for payment to the Trust Fund.
    (b) Allocation of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be 
appropriated by subsection (a) for the fiscal years 2001 and 2002, 
$50,000,000 are authorized to be available each such fiscal year only 
for programs that benefit orphans.

SEC. 142. <<NOTE: 22 USC 6842.>> CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Prior to the initial obligation or expenditure of 
funds appropriated pursuant to section 141, the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall certify that adequate procedures and standards have been 
established to ensure accountability for and monitoring of the use of 
funds contributed to the Trust Fund, including the cost of administering 
the Trust Fund.
    (b) Transmittal of Certification.--The certification required by 
subsection (a), and the bases for that certification, shall be submitted 
by the Secretary of the Treasury to Congress.

  TITLE <<NOTE: International Tuberculosis Control Act of 2000.>> II--
INTERNATIONAL TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``International Tuberculosis Control 
Act of 2000''.

SEC. 202. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151b note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Since the development of antibiotics in the 1950s, 
        tuberculosis has been largely controlled in the United States 
        and the Western World.
            (2) Due to societal factors, including growing urban decay, 
        inadequate health care systems, persistent poverty, 
        overcrowding, and malnutrition, as well as medical factors, 
        including the HIV/AIDS epidemic and the emergence of multi-drug 
        resistant strains of tuberculosis, tuberculosis has again become 
        a leading and growing cause of adult deaths in the developing 
        world.
            (3) According to the World Health Organization--
                    (A) in 1998, about 1,860,000 people worldwide died 
                of tuberculosis-related illnesses;
                    (B) one-third of the world's total population is 
                infected with tuberculosis; and
                    (C) tuberculosis is the world's leading killer of 
                women between 15 and 44 years old and is a leading cause 
                of children becoming orphans.
            (4) Because of the ease of transmission of tuberculosis, its 
        international persistence and growth pose a direct public

[[Page 114 STAT. 759]]

        health threat to those nations that had previously largely 
        controlled the disease. This is complicated in the United States 
        by the growth of the homeless population, the rate of 
        incarceration, international travel, immigration, and HIV/AIDS.
            (5) With nearly 40 percent of the tuberculosis cases in the 
        United States attributable to foreign-born persons, tuberculosis 
        will never be controlled in the United States until it is 
        controlled abroad.
            (6) The means exist to control tuberculosis through 
        screening, diagnosis, treatment, patient compliance, monitoring, 
        and ongoing review of outcomes.
            (7) Efforts to control tuberculosis are complicated by 
        several barriers, including--
                    (A) the labor intensive and lengthy process involved 
                in screening, detecting, and treating the disease;
                    (B) a lack of funding, trained personnel, and 
                medicine in virtually every nation with a high rate of 
                the disease;
                    (C) the unique circumstances in each country, which 
                requires the development and implementation of country-
                specific programs; and
                    (D) the risk of having a bad tuberculosis program, 
                which is worse than having no tuberculosis program 
                because it would significantly increase the risk of the 
                development of more widespread drug-resistant strains of 
                the disease.
            (8) Eliminating the barriers to the international control of 
        tuberculosis through a well-structured, comprehensive, and 
        coordinated worldwide effort would be a significant step in 
        dealing with the increasing public health problem posed by the 
        disease.

SEC. 203. ASSISTANCE FOR TUBERCULOSIS PREVENTION, TREATMENT, CONTROL, 
            AND ELIMINATION.

    Section 104(c) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
2151b(c)), as amended by section 111(a) of this Act, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(7)(A) Congress recognizes the growing international problem of 
tuberculosis and the impact its continued existence has on those nations 
that had previously largely controlled the disease. Congress further 
recognizes that the means exist to control and treat tuberculosis, and 
that it is therefore a major objective of the foreign assistance program 
to control the disease. To this end, Congress expects the agency 
primarily responsible for administering this part--
            ``(i) to coordinate with the World Health Organization, the 
        Centers for Disease Control, the National Institutes of Health, 
        and other organizations toward the development and 
        implementation of a comprehensive tuberculosis control program; 
        and
            ``(ii) to set as a goal the detection of at least 70 percent 
        of the cases of infectious tuberculosis, and the cure of at 
        least 85 percent of the cases detected, in those countries in 
        which the agency has established development programs, by 
        December 31, 2010.

    ``(B) There is authorized to be appropriated to the President, 
$60,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2001 and 2002 to be used

[[Page 114 STAT. 760]]

to carry out this paragraph. Funds appropriated under this subparagraph 
are authorized to remain available until expended.''.

                  TITLE III--ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITIES

SEC. 301. EFFECTIVE PROGRAM OVERSIGHT.

    Section 635 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2395) 
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
    ``(l) The Administrator of the agency primarily responsible for 
administering part I may use funds made available under that part to 
provide program and management oversight for activities that are funded 
under that part and that are conducted in countries in which the agency 
does not have a field mission or office.''.

SEC. 302. TERMINATION EXPENSES.

    Section 617 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2367) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 617. TERMINATION EXPENSES.

    ``(a) In General.--Funds made available under this Act and the Arms 
Export Control Act, may remain available for obligation for a period not 
to exceed 8 months from the date of any termination of assistance under 
such Acts for the necessary expenses of winding up programs related to 
such termination and may remain available until expended. Funds 
obligated under the authority of such Acts prior to the effective date 
of the termination of assistance may remain available for expenditure 
for the necessary expenses of winding up programs related to such 
termination notwithstanding any provision of law restricting the 
expenditure of funds. In order to ensure the effectiveness of such 
assistance, such expenses for orderly termination of programs may 
include the obligation and expenditure of funds to complete the training 
or studies outside their countries of origin of students whose course of 
study or training program began before assistance was terminated.
    ``(b) Liability to Contractors.--For the purpose of making an 
equitable settlement of termination claims under extraordinary 
contractual relief standards, the President is authorized to adopt as a 
contract or other obligation of the United States Government, and assume 
(in whole or in part) any liabilities arising thereunder, any contract 
with a United States or third-country contractor that had been funded 
with assistance under such Acts prior to the termination of assistance.
    ``(c) Termination Expenses.--Amounts certified as having been 
obligated for assistance subsequently terminated by the President, or 
pursuant to any provision of law, shall continue to remain available and 
may be reobligated to meet any necessary expenses arising from the 
termination of such assistance.
    ``(d) Guaranty Programs.--Provisions of this or any other Act 
requiring the termination of assistance under this or any other Act 
shall not be construed to require the termination of guarantee 
commitments that were entered into prior to the effective date of the 
termination of assistance.

[[Page 114 STAT. 761]]

    ``(e) Relation to Other Provisions.--Unless specifically made 
inapplicable by another provision of law, the provisions of this section 
shall be applicable to the termination of assistance pursuant to any 
provision of law.''.

    Approved August 19, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3519:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-548 (Comm. on Banking and Financial Services).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            May 15, considered and passed House.
            July 26, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            July 27, House concurred in Senate amendment.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Aug. 19, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>