[106th Congress Public Law 572]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ572.106]


[[Page 3057]]

                     COMPUTER CRIME ENFORCEMENT ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 3058]]

Public Law 106-572
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish a grant program to assist <<NOTE: Dec. 28, 2000 -  [H.R. 
2816]>> State and local law enforcement in deterring, investigating, and 
                      prosecuting computer crimes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Computer Crime Enforcement 
Act.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3711 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Computer Crime Enforcement Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 3713.>> STATE GRANT PROGRAM FOR TRAINING AND 
            PROSECUTION OF COMPUTER CRIMES.

    (a) In General.--Subject to the availability of amounts provided in 
advance in appropriations Acts, the Office of Justice Programs shall 
make a grant to each State, which shall be used by the State, in 
conjunction with units of local government, State and local courts, 
other States, or combinations thereof in accordance with subsection (b).
    (b) Use of Grant Amounts.--Grants under this section may be used to 
establish and develop programs to--
            (1) assist State and local law enforcement agencies in 
        enforcing State and local criminal laws relating to computer 
        crime;
            (2) assist State and local law enforcement agencies in 
        educating the public to prevent and identify computer crime;
            (3) educate and train State and local law enforcement 
        officers and prosecutors to conduct investigations and forensic 
        analyses of evidence and prosecutions of computer crime;
            (4) assist State and local law enforcement officers and 
        prosecutors in acquiring computer and other equipment to conduct 
        investigations and forensic analysis of evidence of computer 
        crimes; and
            (5) facilitate and promote the sharing of Federal law 
        enforcement expertise and information about the investigation, 
        analysis, and prosecution of computer crimes with State and 
        local law enforcement officers and prosecutors, including the 
        use of multijurisdictional task forces.

    (c) Assurances.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, a State shall provide assurances to the Attorney General that 
the State--
            (1) has in effect laws that penalize computer crime, such as 
        criminal laws prohibiting--
                    (A) fraudulent schemes executed by means of a 
                computer system or network;

[[Page 114 STAT. 3059]]

                    (B) the unlawful damaging, destroying, altering, 
                deleting, removing of computer software, or data 
                contained in a computer, computer system, computer 
                program, or computer network; or
                    (C) the unlawful interference with the operation of 
                or denial of access to a computer, computer program, 
                computer system, or computer network;
            (2) an assessment of the State and local resource needs, 
        including criminal justice resources being devoted to the 
        investigation and enforcement of computer crime laws; and
            (3) a plan for coordinating the programs funded under this 
        section with other federally funded technical assistant and 
        training programs, including directly funded local programs such 
        as the Local Law Enforcement Block Grant program (described 
        under the heading ``Violent Crime Reduction Programs, State and 
        Local Law Enforcement Assistance'' of the Departments of 
        Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (Public Law 105-119)).

    (d) Matching Funds.--The Federal share of a grant received under 
this section may not exceed 90 percent of the costs of a program or 
proposal funded under this section unless the Attorney General waives, 
wholly or in part, the requirements of this subsection.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $25,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 
        through 2004.
            (2) Limitations.--Of the amount made available to carry out 
        this section in any fiscal year not more than 3 percent may be 
        used by the Attorney General for salaries and administrative 
        expenses.
            (3) Minimum amount.--Unless all eligible applications 
        submitted by any State or unit of local government within such 
        State for a grant under this section have been funded, such 
        State, together with grantees within the State (other than 
        Indian tribes), shall be allocated in each fiscal year under 
        this section not less than 0.75 percent of the total amount 
        appropriated in the fiscal year for grants pursuant to this 
        section, except that the United States Virgin Islands, American 
        Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands each shall be 
        allocated 0.25 percent.

    (f ) Grants to Indian Tribes.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of this section, the Attorney General may use amounts

[[Page 114 STAT. 3060]]

made available under this section to make grants to Indian tribes for 
use in accordance with this section.

    Approved December 28, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2816 (S. 1314):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Dec. 15, considered and passed House and Senate.

                                  <all>