[106th Congress Public Law 52]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ052.106]


[[Page 113 STAT. 259]]

Public Law 106-52
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
   base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
          fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Aug. 17, 1999 -  [H.R. 2465]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Military 
Construction Appropriation Act, 2000.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for military construction, family housing, and base 
realignment and closure functions administered by the Department of 
Defense, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2000, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                       Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction 
and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander 
in Chief, $1,042,033,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $91,605,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
and host nation support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of 
Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal 
services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, $901,531,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, That of this 
amount, not to exceed $72,630,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

[[Page 113 STAT. 260]]

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, 
$777,238,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, 
That of this amount, not to exceed $36,412,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Defense-wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real 
property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other 
than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$593,615,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004: Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as he may designate, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $48,324,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $227,456,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2004.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $263,724,000, to remain available until September 
30, 2004.

                   Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United

[[Page 113 STAT. 261]]

States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $111,340,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2004.

                  Military Construction, Naval Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 
1803 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $28,457,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 1803 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $64,404,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2004.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                       Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized in 
Military Construction Authorization Acts and section 2806 of title 10, 
United States Code, $81,000,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$80,700,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; for Operation 
and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $1,086,312,000; in all 
$1,167,012,000.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, including 
debt payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and interest 
charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $341,071,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2004; for Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $891,470,000; 
in all $1,232,541,000.

[[Page 113 STAT. 262]]

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$349,456,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $818,392,000; in all 
$1,167,848,000.

                      Family Housing, Defense-wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration, and for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
and minor construction, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $50,000, to remain available until September 30, 2004; for 
Operation and Maintenance, $41,440,000; in all $41,490,000.

          Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund

    For the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund, 
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended, as the sole source of 
funds for planning, administrative, and oversight costs relating to 
family housing initiatives undertaken pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2883, 
pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and improving military 
family housing, and supporting facilities.

              Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 
established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $672,311,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $346,403,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the 
Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are 
necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-
fixed-fee contract for construction, where cost estimates exceed 
$25,000, to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, 
without the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense 
setting forth the reasons therefor.
    Sec. 102. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction

[[Page 113 STAT. 263]]

of access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to the 
national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
begin construction of new bases inside the continental United States for 
which specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105. No part of the funds provided in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used for purchase of land or land easements 
in excess of 100 percent of the value as determined by the Army Corps of 
Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) where 
there is a determination of value by a Federal court; (2) purchases 
negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee; (3) where the 
estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise determined by 
the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for 
site preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
except housing for which funds have been made available in annual 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for minor construction may be used to transfer or 
relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used for the procurement of steel for any 
construction project or activity for which American steel producers, 
fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to 
compete for such steel procurement.
    Sec. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be obligated for architect and engineer 
contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to 
be accomplished in Japan, in any NATO member country, or in countries 
bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded to United 
States firms or United States firms in joint venture with host nation 
firms.
    Sec. 112. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for military construction in the United States 
territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract 
estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign 
contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be applicable to 
contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible 
bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 percent: Provided 
further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards for 
military construction on Kwajalein Atoll

[[Page 113 STAT. 264]]

for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid is submitted by a 
Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Secretary of Defense is to 
inform the appropriate committees of Congress, including the Committees 
on Appropriations, of the plans and scope of any proposed military 
exercise involving United States personnel 30 days prior to its 
occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either temporary or 
permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.

    Sec. 114. Not more than 20 percent of the appropriations in Military 
Construction Appropriations Acts which are limited for obligation during 
the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last 2 months of 
the fiscal year.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 115. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 116. For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any funds appropriated to a military department or 
defense agency for the construction of military projects may be 
obligated for a military construction project or contract, or for any 
portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the end of the 
fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for such 
project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project: (1) 
are obligated from funds available for military construction projects; 
and (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any 
amount by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> During the 5-year period after 
appropriations available to the Department of Defense for military 
construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have expired for obligation, upon a determination that such 
appropriations will not be necessary for the liquidation of obligations 
or for making authorized adjustments to such appropriations for 
obligations incurred during the period of availability of such 
appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may be 
transferred into the appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, 
Construction, Defense'' to be merged with and to be available for the 
same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which 
transferred.

    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: Reports. Deadline.>> The Secretary of Defense is 
to provide the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives with an annual report by February 15, containing 
details of the specific actions proposed to be taken by the Department 
of Defense during the current fiscal year to encourage other member 
nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Japan, Korea, and 
United States allies bordering the Arabian Gulf to assume a greater

[[Page 113 STAT. 265]]

share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United 
States.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, proceeds 
deposited to the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established 
by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base 
Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526) pursuant to section 
207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may be transferred to the account established 
by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1991, to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as that account.
    Sec. 121. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 122. (a) In the case of any equipment or products that may be 
authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided under this 
Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities receiving such 
assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-
made equipment and products.
     (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance under this 
Act, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to each recipient of the 
assistance a notice describing the statement made in subsection (a) by 
the Congress.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 123. Subject to 30 days prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations, such additional amounts as may be 
determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to the 
Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from amounts 
appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Fund shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169, title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military family housing and supporting 
facilities.
    Sec. 124. None of the funds appropriated or made available by this 
Act may be obligated for Partnership for Peace Programs in the New 
Independent States of the former Soviet Union.
    Sec. 125. <<NOTE: Deadline. Notice.>> (a) Not later than 60 days 
before issuing any solicitation for a contract with the private sector 
for military family housing the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
notice described in subsection (b).

    (b)(1) A notice referred to in subsection (a) is a notice of any 
guarantee (including the making of mortgage or rental payments) proposed 
to be made by the Secretary to the private party under the contract 
involved in the event of--

[[Page 113 STAT. 266]]

            (A) the closure or realignment of the installation for which 
        housing is provided under the contract;
            (B) a reduction in force of units stationed at such 
        installation; or
            (C) the extended deployment overseas of units stationed at 
        such installation.

    (2) Each notice under this subsection shall specify the nature of 
the guarantee involved and assess the extent and likelihood, if any, of 
the liability of the Federal Government with respect to the guarantee.
    (c) In this section, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
means the following:
            (1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate.
            (2) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 126. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, amounts may 
be transferred from the account established by section 2906(a)(1) of the 
Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1991, to the fund established 
by section 1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan 
Development Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 3374) to pay for expenses associated 
with the Homeowners Assistance Program. Any amounts transferred shall be 
merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time 
period as the fund to which transferred.
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: Deadline. Reports.>> Not later than April 30, 
2000, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report examining the adequacy of special education 
facilities and services available to the dependent children of uniformed 
personnel stationed in the United States. The report shall identify the 
following:
            (1) The schools on military installations in the United 
        States that are operated by the Department of Defense, other 
        entities of the Federal Government, or local school districts.
            (2) School districts in the United States that have 
        experienced an increase in enrollment of 20 percent or more in 
        the past five years resulting from base realignments or 
        consolidations.
            (3) The impact of increased special education requirements 
        on student populations, student-teacher ratios, and financial 
        requirements in school districts supporting installations 
        designated by the military departments as compassionate 
        assignment posts.
            (4) The adequacy of special education services and 
        facilities for dependent children of uniformed personnel within 
        the United States, particularly at compassionate assignment 
        posts.
            (5) Corrective measures that are needed to adequately 
        support the special education needs of military families, 
        including such improvements as the renovation of existing 
        schools or the construction of new schools.

[[Page 113 STAT. 267]]

            (6) An estimate of the cost of needed improvements, and a 
        recommended source of funding within the Department of Defense.

    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2821 note.>> Notwithstanding this or any 
other provision of law, funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for operations and maintenance of family housing 
shall be the exclusive source of funds for repair and maintenance of all 
family housing units, including flag and general officer quarters: 
Provided, That not more than $25,000 per unit may be spent annually for 
the maintenance and repair of any general or flag officer quarters 
without 30 days advance prior notification of the appropriate committees 
of Congress: Provided further, That beginning January 15, 2000 the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) is to report annually to the 
Committees on Appropriations all operations and maintenance expenditures 
for each individual flag and general officer quarters for the prior 
fiscal year.

    Sec. 129. The first proviso under the heading ``MILITARY 
CONSTRUCTION TRANSFER FUND'' in chapter 6 of title II of the 1999 
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (Public Law 106-31) is amended 
by inserting ``and to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
Investment Program as provided in section 2806 of title 10, United 
States Code'' after ``to military construction accounts'': Provided, 
That funds transferred to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
Security Investment Program from the Military Construction Transfer Fund 
pursuant to such authority shall be available for all purposes of the 
Security Investment Program and shall remain available until expended.
    Sec. 130. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air 
Force are directed to submit to the appropriate committees of the 
Congress by July 1, 2000, a Family Housing Master Plan demonstrating how 
they plan to meet the year 2010 housing goals with traditional 
construction, operation and maintenance support, as well as 
privatization initiative proposals. Each plan shall include projected 
life cycle costs for family housing construction, basic allowance for 
housing, operation and maintenance, other associated costs, and a time 
line for housing completions each year.

    Sec. 131. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no funds 
appropriated or otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act 
may be obligated or expended for any purpose relating to the 
construction at Bluegrass Army Depot, Kentucky, of any facility 
employing a specific technology for the demilitarization of assembled 
chemical munitions until the date on which the Secretary of Defense 
certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the Department of 
Defense will complete a demonstration of the six alternatives to 
baseline incineration for the destruction of chemical agents and 
munitions as identified by the Program Evaluation Team of the Assembled 
Chemical Weapons Assessment program.

[[Page 113 STAT. 268]]

    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 2000''.

    Approved August 17, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2465 (S. 1205):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 106-221 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 106-266(Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-74 accompanying S. 1205 (Comm. on 
Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            July 13, considered and passed House.
            July 14, considered and passed Senate, amended, in lieu of 
                S. 1205.
            July 29, House agreed to conference report.
            Aug. 3, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 35 (1999):
            Aug. 17, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>