[106th Congress Public Law 272]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ272.106]

Public Law 106-272
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the development and maintenance of a multi-agency campus 
 project in the town of Jackson, Wyoming. <<NOTE: Sept. 22, 2000 -  [S. 
                                1374]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Jackson Multi-
Agency Campus Act of 2000.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Jackson Multi-Agency Campus Act of 
2000''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the management of public land and natural resources and 
        the service of the public in the area of Jackson, Wyoming, are 
        responsibilities shared by--
                    (A) the Department of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Forest Service;
                    (C) the Department of the Interior, including--
                          (i) the National Park Service; and
                          (ii) the United States Fish and Wildlife 
                      Service;
                    (D) the Game and Fish Commission of the State of 
                Wyoming;
                    (E) Teton County, Wyoming;
                    (F) the town of Jackson, Wyoming;
                    (G) the Jackson Chamber of Commerce; and
                    (H) the Jackson Hole Historical Society; and
            (2) it is desirable to locate the administrative offices of 
        several of the agencies and entities specified in paragraph (1) 
        on 1 site to--
                    (A) facilitate communication between the agencies 
                and entities;
                    (B) reduce costs to the Federal, State, and local 
                governments; and
                    (C) better serve the public.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to authorize the Federal agencies specified in 
        subsection (a)--
                    (A) to develop and maintain the Project in Jackson, 
                Wyoming, in cooperation with the other agencies and 
                entities specified in subsection (a); and
                    (B) to provide resources and enter into such 
                agreements as are necessary for the planning, design, 
                construction, operation, maintenance, and fixture 
                modifications of all elements of the Project;
            (2) to direct the Secretary to convey to the town of 
        Jackson, Wyoming, certain parcels of federally owned land 
        located in Teton County, Wyoming, in exchange for construction 
        of facilities for the Bridger-Teton National Forest by the town 
        of Jackson;
            (3) to direct the Secretary to convey to the Game and Fish 
        Commission of the State of Wyoming certain parcels of federally 
        owned land in the town of Jackson, Wyoming, in exchange for 
        approximately 1.35 acres of land, also located in the town of 
        Jackson, to be used in the construction of the Project; and
            (4) to relinquish certain reversionary interests of the 
        United States in order to facilitate the transactions described 
        in paragraphs (1) through (3).

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Game and 
        Fish Commission of the State of Wyoming.
            (2) Construction cost.--The term ``construction cost'' means 
        any cost that is--
                    (A) associated with building improvements to Federal 
                standards and guidelines; and
                    (B) open to a competitive bidding process approved 
                by the Secretary.
            (3) Federal parcel.--The term ``Federal parcel'' means--
                    (A) the parcel of land, and all appurtenances to the 
                land, comprising approximately 15.3 acres, depicted as 
                ``Bridger-Teton National Forest'' on the Map; and
                    (B) the parcel comprising approximately 80 acres, 
                known as the ``Cache Creek Administrative Site'', 
                located adjacent to the town.
            (4) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Multi-
        Agency Campus Project Site'', dated March 31, 1999, and on file 
        in the offices of--
                    (A) the Bridger-Teton National Forest, in the State 
                of Wyoming; and
                    (B) the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (5) Master plan.--The term ``master plan'' means the 
        document entitled ``Conceptual Master Plan'', dated July 14, 
        1998, and on file at the offices of--
                    (A) the Bridger-Teton National Forest, in the State 
                of Wyoming; and
                    (B) the Chief of the Forest Service.
            (6) Project.--The term ``Project'' means the proposed 
        project for construction of a multi-agency campus, to be carried 
        out by the town of Jackson in cooperation with the other 
        agencies and entities described in section 2(a)(1), to provide, 
        in accordance with the master plan--
                    (A) administrative facilities for various agencies 
                and entities; and
                    (B) interpretive, educational, and other facilities 
                for visitors to the greater Yellowstone area.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture (including a designee of the Secretary).
            (8) State parcel.--The term ``State parcel'' means the 
        parcel of land comprising approximately 3 acres, depicted as 
        ``Wyoming Game and Fish'' on the Map.
            (9) Town.--The term ``town'' means the town of Jackson, 
        Wyoming.

SEC. 4. MULTI-AGENCY CAMPUS PROJECT, JACKSON, WYOMING.

    (a) Construction for Exchange of Property.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than 5 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the town may construct, 
        as part of the Project, an administrative facility to be owned 
        and operated by the Bridger-Teton National Forest, if--
                    (A) an offer by the town to construct the 
                administrative facility is accepted by the Secretary 
                under paragraph (2);
                    (B) a memorandum of understanding between the town 
                and the Secretary outlining the roles and 
                responsibilities of each party involved in the land 
                exchange and construction is executed;
                    (C) a final building design and construction cost 
                estimate is approved by the Secretary; and
                    (D) the exchange described in subsection (b)(2) is 
                completed in accordance with that subsection.
            (2) Acceptance and authorization to construct.--The 
        Secretary, on receipt of an acceptable offer from the town under 
        paragraph (1), shall authorize the town to construct the 
        administrative facility described in paragraph (1) in accordance 
        with this Act.
            (3) Conveyance.--
                    (A) Secretary.--The Secretary shall convey all 
                right, title, and interest in and to the Federal land 
                described in section 5(a)(1) to the town in simultaneous 
                exchange for, and on satisfactory completion of, the 
                administrative facility.
                    (B) Town.--The town shall convey all right, title, 
                and interest in and to the administrative facility 
                constructed under this section in exchange for the land 
                described in section 5(a)(1).

    (b) Offer To Convey State Parcel.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may offer to convey a 
        portion of the State parcel, depicted on the Map as ``Parcel 
        Three'', to the United States to be used for construction of an 
        administrative facility for the Bridger-Teton National Forest.
            (2) Conveyance.--If the offer described in paragraph (1) is 
        made not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary shall convey the Federal land described in 
        section 5(a)(2) to the Commission, in exchange for the portion 
        of the State parcel described in paragraph (1), in accordance 
        with this Act.

SEC. 5. CONVEYANCE OF FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) In General.--In exchange for the consideration described in 
section 4, the Secretary shall convey--
            (1) to the town, in a manner that equalizes values--
                    (A) the portion of the Federal parcel, comprising 
                approximately 9.3 acres, depicted on the Map as ``Parcel 
                Two''; and
                    (B) if an additional conveyance of land is necessary 
                to equalize the values of land exchanged after the 
                conveyance of Parcel Two, an appropriate portion of the 
                portion of the Federal parcel comprising approximately 
                80 acres, known as the ``Cache Creek Administrative 
                Site'' and located adjacent to the town; and
            (2) to the Commission, the portion of the Federal parcel, 
        comprising approximately 3.2 acres, depicted on the Map as 
        ``Parcel One''.

    (b) Reversionary Interests.--As additional consideration for 
acceptance by the United States of any offer described in section 4, the 
United States shall relinquish all reversionary interests in the State 
parcel, as set forth in the deed between the United States and the State 
of Wyoming, dated February 19, 1957, and recorded on October 2, 1967, in 
Book 14 of Deeds, Page 382, in the records of Teton County, Wyoming.

SEC. 6. EQUAL VALUE OF INTERESTS EXCHANGED.

    (a) Valuation of Land To Be Conveyed.--
            (1) In general.--The fair market and improvement values of 
        the land to be exchanged under this Act shall be determined--
                    (A) by appraisals acceptable to the Secretary, using 
                nationally recognized appraisal standards; and
                    (B) in accordance with section 206 of the Federal 
                Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
            (2) Appraisal report.--Each appraisal report shall be 
        written to Federal standards, as defined in the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions developed by 
        the Interagency Land Acquisition Conference.
            (3) No effect on value of reversionary interests.--An 
        appraisal of the State parcel shall not take into consideration 
        any reversionary interest held by the United States in the State 
        parcel as of the date on which the appraisal is conducted.

    (b) Value of Federal Land Greater Than Construction Costs.--If the 
value of the Federal land to be conveyed to the town under section 
5(a)(1) is greater than the construction costs to be paid by the town 
for the administrative facility described in section 4(a), the Secretary 
shall reduce the acreage of the Federal land conveyed so that the value 
of the Federal land conveyed to the town closely approximates the 
construction costs.
    (c) Value of Federal Land Equal to Value of State Parcel.--
            (1) In general.--The value of any Federal land conveyed to 
        the Commission under section 5(a)(2) shall be equal to the value 
        of the State parcel conveyed to the United States under section 
        4(b).
            (2) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the Federal land and the 
        State parcel may be adjusted to equalize values.

    (d) Payment of Cash Equalization.--Notwithstanding subsections (b) 
and (c), the values of Federal land and the State parcel may be 
equalized by payment of cash to the Secretary, the Commission, or the 
town, as appropriate, in accordance with section 206(b) of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), if the 
values cannot be equalized by adjusting the size of parcels to be 
conveyed or by conveying additional land, without compromising the 
design of the Project.

SEC. 7. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Construction of Federal Facilities.--The construction of 
facilities on Federal land within the boundaries of the Project shall 
be--
            (1) supervised and managed by the town in accordance with 
        the memorandum of understanding referred to in section 
        4(a)(1)(B); and
            (2) carried out to standards and specifications approved by 
        the Secretary.

    (b) Access.--The town (including contractors and subcontractors of 
the town) shall have access to the Federal land until completion of 
construction for all purposes related to construction of facilities 
under this Act.
    (c) Administration of Land Acquired by United States.--Land acquired 
by the United States under this Act shall be governed by all laws 
applicable to the administration of national forest sites.
    (d) Wetland.--
            (1) In general.--There shall be no construction of any 
        facility after the date of conveyance of Federal land under this 
        Act within any portion of the Federal parcel delineated on the 
        map as ``wetlands''.
            (2) Deeds and conveyance documents.--A deed or other 
        conveyance document executed by the Secretary in carrying out 
        this Act shall contain such reservations as are necessary to 
        preclude development of wetland on any portion of the Federal 
        parcel.

    Approved September 22, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1374:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-748 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-215 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Sept. 12, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>