[106th Congress Public Law 577]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ577.106]


[[Page 3067]]

                  CALIFORNIA TRAIL INTERPRETIVE CENTER

[[Page 114 STAT. 3068]]

Public Law 106-577
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the California Trail Interpretive Center in Elko, Nevada, 
    to facilitate the interpretation of <<NOTE: Dec. 28, 2000 -  [S. 
2749]>> the history of development and use of trails in the settling of 
    the western portion of the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

 TITLE I--CALIFORNIA <<NOTE: California Trail Interpretive Act. 16 USC 
1244 note.>> TRAIL INTERPRETIVE CENTER

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``California Trail Interpretive 
Act''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the nineteenth-century westward movement in the United 
        States over the California National Historic Trail, which 
        occurred from 1840 until the completion of the transcontinental 
        railroad in 1869, was an important cultural and historical event 
        in--
                    (A) the development of the western land of the 
                United States; and
                    (B) the prevention of colonization of the west coast 
                by Russia and the British Empire;
            (2) the movement over the California Trail was completed by 
        over 300,000 settlers, many of whom left records or stories of 
        their journeys; and
            (3) additional recognition and interpretation of the 
        movement over the California Trail is appropriate in light of--
                    (A) the national scope of nineteenth-century 
                westward movement in the United States; and
                    (B) the strong interest expressed by people of the 
                United States in understanding their history and 
                heritage.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to recognize the California Trail, including the 
        Hastings Cutoff and the trail of the ill-fated Donner-Reed 
        Party, for its national, historical, and cultural significance; 
        and
            (2) to provide the public with an interpretive facility 
        devoted to the vital role of trails in the West in the 
        development of the United States.

SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:

[[Page 114 STAT. 3069]]

            (1) California trail.--The term ``California Trail'' means 
        the California National Historic Trail, established under 
        section 5(a)(18) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1244(a)(18)).
            (2) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the California Trail 
        Interpretive Center established under section 104(a).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.

SEC. 104. CALIFORNIA TRAIL INTERPRETIVE CENTER.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--In furtherance of the purposes of section 
        7(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1246(c)), the 
        Secretary may establish an interpretation center to be known as 
        the ``California Trail Interpretive Center'', near the city of 
        Elko, Nevada.
            (2) Purpose.--The Center shall be established for the 
        purpose of interpreting the history of development and use of 
        the California Trail in the settling of the West.

    (b) Master Plan Study.--To carry out subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) consider the findings of the master plan study for the 
        California Trail Interpretive Center in Elko, Nevada, as 
        authorized by page 15 of Senate Report 106-99; and
            (2) initiate a plan for the development of the Center that 
        includes--
                    (A) a detailed description of the design of the 
                Center;
                    (B) a description of the site on which the Center is 
                to be located;
                    (C) a description of the method and estimated cost 
                of acquisition of the site on which the Center is to be 
                located;
                    (D) the estimated cost of construction of the 
                Center;
                    (E) the cost of operation and maintenance of the 
                Center; and
                    (F) a description of the manner and extent to which 
                non-Federal entities shall participate in the 
                acquisition and construction of the Center.

    (c) Implementation.--To carry out subsection (a), the Secretary 
may--
            (1) acquire land and interests in land for the construction 
        of the Center by--
                    (A) donation;
                    (B) purchase with donated or appropriated funds; or
                    (C) exchange;
            (2) provide for local review of and input concerning the 
        development and operation of the Center by the Advisory Board 
        for the National Historic California Emigrant Trails 
        Interpretive Center of the city of Elko, Nevada;
            (3) periodically prepare a budget and funding request that 
        allows a Federal agency to carry out the maintenance and 
        operation of the Center;
            (4) enter into a cooperative agreement with--
                    (A) the State, to provide assistance in--
                          (i) removal of snow from roads;

[[Page 114 STAT. 3070]]

                          (ii) rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement 
                      services; and
                          (iii) coordination of activities of nearby law 
                      enforcement and firefighting departments or 
                      agencies; and
                    (B) a Federal, State, or local agency to develop or 
                operate facilities and services to carry out this title; 
                and
            (5) notwithstanding any other provision of law, accept 
        donations of funds, property, or services from an individual, 
        foundation, corporation, or public entity to provide a service 
        or facility that is consistent with this title, as determined by 
        the Secretary, including 1-time contributions for the Center (to 
        be payable during construction funding periods for the Center 
        after the date of enactment of this Act) from--
                    (A) the State, in the amount of $3,000,000;
                    (B) Elko County, Nevada, in the amount of 
                $1,000,000; and
                    (C) the city of Elko, Nevada, in the amount of 
                $2,000,000.

SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title 
$12,000,000.

  TITLE II--CONVEYANCE OF <<NOTE: Education Land Grant Act.>> NATIONAL 
FOREST SYSTEM LANDS FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 16 USC 479a note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Education Land Grant Act''.
SEC. 202. CONVEYANCE <<NOTE: 16 USC 479a.>> OF NATIONAL FOREST 
                        SYSTEM LANDS FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES.

    (a) Authority To Convey.--Upon written application, the Secretary of 
Agriculture may convey National Forest System lands to a public school 
district for use for educational purposes if the Secretary determines 
that--
            (1) the public school district seeking the conveyance will 
        use the conveyed land for a public or publicly funded elementary 
        or secondary school, to provide grounds or facilities related to 
        such a school, or for both purposes;
            (2) the conveyance will serve the public interest;
            (3) the land to be conveyed is not otherwise needed for the 
        purposes of the National Forest System;
            (4) the total acreage to be conveyed does not exceed the 
        amount reasonably necessary for the proposed use;
            (5) the land is to be used for an established or proposed 
        project that is described in detail in the application to the 
        Secretary, and the conveyance would serve public objectives 
        (either locally or at large) that outweigh the objectives and 
        values which would be served by maintaining such land in Federal 
        ownership;
            (6) the applicant is financially and otherwise capable of 
        implementing the proposed project;
            (7) the land to be conveyed has been identified for disposal 
        in an applicable land and resource management plan under

[[Page 114 STAT. 3071]]

        the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 
        1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.); and
            (8) an opportunity for public participation in a disposal 
        under this section has been provided, including at least one 
        public hearing or meeting, to provide for public comments.

    (b) Acreage Limitation.--A conveyance under this section may not 
exceed 80 acres. However, this limitation shall not be construed to 
preclude an entity from submitting a subsequent application under this 
section for an additional land conveyance if the entity can demonstrate 
to the Secretary a need for additional land.
    (c) Costs and Mineral Rights.--(1) A conveyance under this section 
shall be for a nominal cost. The conveyance may not include the transfer 
of mineral or water rights.
    (2) If necessary, the exact acreage and legal description of the 
real property conveyed under this title shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary and the applicant. The cost of the survey 
shall be borne by the applicant.
    (d) Review of <<NOTE: Notification.>> Applications.--When the 
Secretary receives an application under this section, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) before the end of the 14-day period beginning on the 
        date of the receipt of the application, provide notice of that 
        receipt to the applicant; and
            (2) before the end of the 120-day period beginning on that 
        date--
                    (A) make a final determination whether or not to 
                convey land pursuant to the application, and notify the 
                applicant of that determination; or
                    (B) submit written notice to the applicant 
                containing the reasons why a final determination has not 
                been made.

    (e) Reversionary Interest.--If, at any time after lands are conveyed 
pursuant to this section, the entity to whom the lands were conveyed 
attempts to transfer title to or control over the lands to another or 
the lands are devoted to a use other than the use for which the lands 
were conveyed, title to the lands shall revert to the United States.

TITLE <<NOTE: Utah.>>  III--GOLDEN SPIKE/CROSSROADS OF THE WEST NATIONAL 
    HERITAGE AREA STUDY AREA AND THE CROSSROADS OF THE WEST HISTORIC 
DISTRICT

SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Golden spike rail study.--The term ``Golden Spike Rail 
        Study'' means the Golden Spike Rail Feasibility Study, 
        Reconnaissance Survey, Ogden, Utah to Golden Spike National 
        Historic Site'', National Park Service, 1993.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Study area.--The term ``Study Area'' means the Golden 
        Spike/Crossroads of the West National Heritage Area Study Area, 
        the boundaries of which are described in subsection (d).

[[Page 114 STAT. 3072]]

    (b) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a study of the Study 
Area which includes analysis and documentation necessary to determine 
whether the Study Area--
            (1) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use, and are best managed through 
        partnerships among public and private entities;
            (2) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and folk-life 
        that are a valuable part of the national story;
            (3) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, or scenic features;
            (4) provides outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities;
            (5) contains resources important to the identified theme or 
        themes of the Study Area that retain a degree of integrity 
        capable of supporting interpretation;
            (6) includes residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments who have 
        demonstrated support for the concept of a National Heritage 
        Area; and
            (7) has a potential management entity to work in partnership 
        with residents, business interests, nonprofit organizations, and 
        local and State governments to develop a National Heritage Area 
        consistent with continued local and State economic activity.

    (c) Consultation.--In conducting the study, the Secretary shall--
            (1) consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer, 
        State Historical Society, and other appropriate organizations; 
        and
            (2) use previously completed materials, including the Golden 
        Spike Rail Study.

    (d) Boundaries of Study Area.--The Study Area shall be comprised of 
sites relating to completion of the first transcontinental railroad in 
the State of Utah, concentrating on those areas identified on the map 
included in the Golden Spike Rail Study.
    (e) Report.--Not later than <<NOTE: Deadline.>> 3 fiscal years after 
funds are first made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate a report on the findings and conclusions of the study and 
recommendations based upon those findings and conclusions.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
the provisions of this section.

SEC. <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> 302. CROSSROADS OF THE WEST HISTORIC 
            DISTRICT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to preserve and interpret, for the educational and 
        inspirational benefit of the public, the contribution to our 
        national heritage of certain historic and cultural lands and 
        edifices of the Crossroads of the West Historic District; and
            (2) to enhance cultural and compatible economic 
        redevelopment within the District.

    (b) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:

[[Page 114 STAT. 3073]]

            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Crossroads of 
        the West Historic District established by subsection (c).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Historic infrastructure.--The term ``historic 
        infrastructure'' means the District's historic buildings and any 
        other structure that the Secretary determines to be eligible for 
        listing on the National Register of Historic Places.

    (c) Crossroads of the West Historic District.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Crossroads of 
        the West Historic District in the city of Ogden, Utah.
            (2) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the District shall be the 
        boundaries depicted on the map entitled ``Crossroads of the West 
        Historic District'', numbered OGGO-20,000, and dated March 22, 
        2000. The map shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Department of the 
        Interior.

    (d) Development Plan.--The Secretary may make grants and enter into 
cooperative agreements with the State of Utah, local governments, and 
nonprofit entities under which the Secretary agrees to pay not more than 
50 percent of the costs of--
            (1) preparation of a plan for the development of historic, 
        architectural, natural, cultural, and interpretive resources 
        within the District;
            (2) implementation of projects approved by the Secretary 
        under the development plan described in paragraph (1); and
            (3) an analysis assessing measures that could be taken to 
        encourage economic development and revitalization within the 
        District in a manner consistent with the District's historic 
        character.

    (e) Restoration, Preservation, and Interpretation of Properties.--
            (1) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the State of Utah, local 
        governments, and nonprofit entities owning property within the 
        District under which the Secretary may--
                    (A) pay not more than 50 percent of the cost of 
                restoring, repairing, rehabilitating, and improving 
                historic infrastructure within the District;
                    (B) provide technical assistance with respect to the 
                preservation and interpretation of properties within the 
                District; and
                    (C) mark and provide interpretation of properties 
                within the District.
            (2) Non-federal contributions.--When determining the cost of 
        restoring, repairing, rehabilitating, and improving historic 
        infrastructure within the District for the purposes of paragraph 
        (1)(A), the Secretary may consider any donation of property, 
        services, or goods from a non-Federal source as a contribution 
        of funds from a non-Federal source.
            (3) Provisions.--A cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
        shall provide that--
                    (A) the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
                reasonable times to public portions of the property for 
                interpretive and other purposes;
                    (B) no change or alteration may be made in the 
                property except with the agreement of the property 
                owner,

[[Page 114 STAT. 3074]]

                the Secretary, and any Federal agency that may have 
                regulatory jurisdiction over the property; and
                    (C) any construction grant made under this section 
                shall be subject to an agreement that provides--
                          (i) that conversion, use, or disposal of the 
                      project so assisted for purposes contrary to the 
                      purposes of this section shall result in a right 
                      of the United States to compensation from the 
                      beneficiary of the grant; and
                          (ii) for a schedule for such compensation 
                      based on the level of Federal investment and the 
                      anticipated useful life of the project.
            (4) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--A property owner that desires to 
                enter into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
                shall submit to the Secretary an application describing 
                how the project proposed to be funded will further the 
                purposes of the management plan developed for the 
                District.
                    (B) Consideration.--In making such funds available 
                under this subsection, the Secretary shall give 
                consideration to projects that provide a greater 
                leverage of Federal funds.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section not more than 
$1,000,000 for any fiscal year and not more than $5,000,000 total.

    Approved December 28, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2749:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-441 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 5, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 24, considered and passed House, amended.
            Dec. 15, Senate concurred in House amendments.

                                  <all>