[106th Congress Public Law 570]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ570.106]


[[Page 3037]]

            ASSISTANCE FOR INTERNATIONAL MALARIA CONTROL ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 3038]]

Public Law 106-570
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize additional <<NOTE: Dec. 27, 2000 -  [S. 2943]>> assistance 
       for international malaria control, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Assistance for International Malaria 
Control Act. 22 USC 2151 note.>> Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Assistance for International Malaria 
Control Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.

          TITLE I--ASSISTANCE FOR INTERNATIONAL MALARIA CONTROL

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Findings.
Sec. 103. Assistance for malaria prevention, treatment, control, and 
           elimination.

       TITLE II--POLICY OF THE UNITED STATES WITH RESPECT TO MACAU

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Findings and declarations; sense of Congress.
Sec. 203. Continued application of United States law.
Sec. 204. Reporting requirement.
Sec. 205. Definitions.

         TITLE III--UNITED STATES-CANADA ALASKA RAIL COMMISSION

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Findings.
Sec. 303. Agreement for a United States-Canada bilateral commission.
Sec. 304. Composition of Commission.
Sec. 305. Governance and staffing of Commission.
Sec. 306. Duties.
Sec. 307. Commencement and termination of Commission.
Sec. 308. Funding.
Sec. 309. Definitions.

            TITLE IV--PACIFIC CHARTER COMMISSION ACT OF 2000

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Purposes.
Sec. 403. Establishment of commission.
Sec. 404. Duties of Commission.
Sec. 405. Membership of Commission.
Sec. 406. Powers of Commission.
Sec. 407. Staff and support services of Commission.
Sec. 408. Termination.
Sec. 409. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 410. Effective date.

                    TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 501. Assistance efforts in Sudan.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3039]]

Sec. 502. Authority to provide towing assistance.
Sec. 503. Sense of Congress on the American University in Bulgaria.

       TITLE VI--PAUL D. COVERDELL WORLD WISE SCHOOLS ACT OF 2000

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Findings.
Sec. 603. Designation of Paul D. Coverdell World Wise Schools Program.

    TITLE I--ASSISTANCE <<NOTE: International Malaria Control Act of 
2000.>> FOR INTERNATIONAL MALARIA CONTROL

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``International Malaria Control Act 
of 2000''.

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151b-1 note.>> FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The World Health Organization estimates that there are 
        300,000,000 to 500,000,000 cases of malaria each year.
            (2) According to the World Health Organization, more than 
        1,000,000 persons are estimated to die due to malaria each year.
            (3) According to the National Institutes of Health, about 40 
        percent of the world's population is at risk of becoming 
        infected.
            (4) About half of those who die each year from malaria are 
        children under 9 years of age.
            (5) Malaria kills one child each 30 seconds.
            (6) Although malaria is a public health problem in more than 
        90 countries, more than 90 percent of all malaria cases are in 
        sub-Saharan Africa.
            (7) In addition to Africa, large areas of Central and South 
        America, Haiti and the Dominican Republic, the Indian 
        subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East are high risk 
        malaria areas.
            (8) These high risk areas represent many of the world's 
        poorest nations.
            (9) Malaria is particularly dangerous during pregnancy. The 
        disease causes severe anemia and is a major factor contributing 
        to maternal deaths in malaria endemic regions.
            (10) ``Airport malaria'', the importing of malaria by 
        international aircraft and other conveyances, is becoming more 
        common, and the United Kingdom reported 2,364 cases of malaria 
        in 1997, all of them imported by travelers.
            (11) In the United States, of the 1,400 cases of malaria 
        reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 
        1998, the vast majority were imported.
            (12) Between 1970 and 1997, the malaria infection rate in 
        the United States increased by about 40 percent.
            (13) Malaria is caused by a single-cell parasite that is 
        spread to humans by mosquitoes.
            (14) No vaccine is available and treatment is hampered by 
        development of drug-resistant parasites and insecticide-
        resistant mosquitoes.
SEC. 103. ASSISTANCE <<NOTE: 22 USC 2151b-1.>> FOR MALARIA 
                        PREVENTION, TREATMENT, CONTROL, AND 
                        ELIMINATION.

    (a) Assistance.--

[[Page 114 STAT. 3040]]

            (1) In general.--The Administrator of the United States 
        Agency for International Development, in coordination with the 
        heads of other appropriate Federal agencies and nongovernmental 
        organizations, shall provide assistance for the establishment 
        and conduct of activities designed to prevent, treat, control, 
        and eliminate malaria in countries with a high percentage of 
        malaria cases.
            (2) Consideration of interaction among epidemics.--In 
        providing assistance pursuant to paragraph (1), the 
        Administrator should consider the interaction among the 
        epidemics of HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis.
            (3) Dissemination of information requirement.--Activities 
        referred to in paragraph (1) shall include the dissemination of 
        information relating to the development of vaccines and 
        therapeutic agents for the prevention of malaria (including 
        information relating to participation in, and the results of, 
        clinical trials for such vaccines and agents conducted by United 
        States Government agencies) to appropriate officials in such 
        countries.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out subsection (a) $50,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
        years 2001 and 2002.
            (2) Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations under paragraph (1) are 
        authorized to remain available until expended.

 TITLE II--POLICY OF <<NOTE: United States-Macau Policy Act of 2000. 22 
USC 6901 note.>> THE UNITED STATES WITH RESPECT TO MACAU

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``United States-Macau Policy Act of 
2000''.

SEC. 202. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings and Declarations.--Congress makes the following 
findings and declarations:
            (1) The continued economic prosperity of Macau furthers 
        United States interests in the People's Republic of China and 
        Asia.
            (2) Support for democratization is a fundamental principle 
        of United States foreign policy, and as such, that principle 
        naturally applies to United States policy toward Macau.
            (3) The human rights of the people of Macau are of great 
        importance to the United States and are directly relevant to 
        United States interests in Macau.
            (4) A fully successful transition in the exercise of 
        sovereignty over Macau must continue to safeguard human rights 
        in and of themselves.
            (5) Human rights also serve as a basis for Macau's continued 
        economic prosperity, and Congress takes note of Macau's 
        adherence to the International Covenant on Civil and Political 
        Rights and the International Convention on Economic, Social, and 
        Cultural Rights.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--

[[Page 114 STAT. 3041]]

            (1) the United States should play an active role in 
        maintaining Macau's confidence and prosperity, Macau's unique 
        cultural heritage, and the mutually beneficial ties between the 
        people of the United States and the people of Macau;
            (2) through its policies, the United States should 
        contribute to Macau's ability to maintain a high degree of 
        autonomy in matters other than defense and foreign affairs as 
        promised by the People's Republic of China and the Republic of 
        Portugal in the Joint Declaration, particularly with respect to 
        such matters as trade, commerce, law enforcement, finance, 
        monetary policy, aviation, shipping, communications, tourism, 
        cultural affairs, sports, and participation in international 
        organizations, consistent with the national security and other 
        interests of the United States; and
            (3) the United States should actively seek to establish and 
        expand direct bilateral ties and agreements with Macau in 
        economic, trade, financial, monetary, mutual legal assistance, 
        law enforcement, communication, transportation, and other 
        appropriate areas.

SEC. 203. CONTINUED APPLICATION OF UNITED STATES LAW.

    (a) Continued Application.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any change in the exercise 
        of sovereignty over Macau, and subject to subsections (b) and 
        (c), the laws of the United States shall continue to apply with 
        respect to Macau in the same manner as the laws of the United 
        States were applied with respect to Macau before December 20, 
        1999, unless otherwise expressly provided by law or by Executive 
        order issued pursuant to paragraph (2).
            (2) Exception.--Whenever 
        the <<NOTE: President. Notification. Federal Register, 
        publication.>> President determines that Macau is not 
        sufficiently autonomous to justify treatment under a particular 
        law of the United States, or any provision thereof, different 
        from that accorded the People's Republic of China, the President 
        may issue an Executive order suspending the application of 
        paragraph (1) to such law or provision of law. The President 
        shall promptly notify the Committee on International Relations 
        of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate concerning any such determination and 
        shall publish the Executive order in the Federal Register.

    (b) Export Controls.--
            (1) In general.--The export control laws, regulations, and 
        practices of the United States shall apply to Macau in the same 
        manner and to the same extent that such laws, regulations, and 
        practices apply to the People's Republic of China, and in no 
        case shall such laws, regulations, and practices be applied less 
        restrictively to exports to Macau than to exports to the 
        People's Republic of China.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Paragraph (1) shall not be 
        construed as prohibiting the provision of export control 
        assistance to Macau.

    (c) International Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (b) and paragraph 
        (2), for all purposes, including actions in any court of the 
        United States, Congress approves of the continuation in force 
        after December 20, 1999, of all treaties and other international 
        agreements, including multilateral conventions, entered into

[[Page 114 STAT. 3042]]

        before such date between the United States and Macau, or entered 
        into force before such date between the United States and the 
        Republic of Portugal and applied to Macau, unless or until 
        terminated in accordance with law.
            (2) Exception.--If, 
        in <<NOTE: President. Notification.>> carrying out this 
        subsection, the President determines that Macau is not legally 
        competent to carry out its obligations under any such treaty or 
        other international agreement, or that the continuation of 
        Macau's obligations or rights under any such treaty or other 
        international agreement is not appropriate under the 
        circumstances, the President shall take appropriate action to 
        modify or terminate such treaty or other international 
        agreement. The President shall promptly notify the Committee on 
        International Relations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate concerning such 
        determination.

SEC. 204. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and not later than March 31 of 
each of the years 2001, 2002, and 2003, the Secretary of State shall 
transmit to the Committee on International Relations of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a 
report on conditions in Macau of interest to the United States. The 
report shall describe--
            (1) significant developments in United States relations with 
        Macau, including any determination made under section 203;
            (2) significant developments related to the change in the 
        exercise of sovereignty over Macau affecting United States 
        interests in Macau or United States relations with Macau and the 
        People's Republic of China;
            (3) the development of democratic institutions in Macau;
            (4) compliance by the Government of the People's Republic of 
        China and the Government of the Republic of Portugal with their 
        obligations under the Joint Declaration; and
            (5) the nature and extent of Macau's participation in 
        multilateral forums.

    (b) Separate Part of Country Reports.--Whenever a report is 
transmitted to Congress on a country-by-country basis, there shall be 
included in such report, where applicable, a separate subreport on Macau 
under the heading of the country that exercises sovereignty over Macau.

SEC. 205. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Joint declaration.--The term ``Joint Declaration'' means 
        the Joint Declaration of the Government of the People's Republic 
        of China and the Government of the Republic of Portugal on the 
        Question of Macau, dated April 13, 1987.
            (2) Macau.--The term ``Macau'' means the territory that 
        prior to December 20, 1999, was the Portuguese Dependent 
        Territory of Macau and after December 20, 1999, became the Macau 
        Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3043]]

   TITLE III--UNITED STATES-CANADA <<NOTE: Rails to Resources Act of 
2000. 49 USC note prec. 28101.>> ALASKA RAIL COMMISSION

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Rails to Resources Act of 2000''.

SEC. 302. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) rail transportation is an essential component of the 
        North American intermodal transportation system;
            (2) the development of economically strong and socially 
        stable communities in the western United States and Canada was 
        encouraged significantly by government policies promoting the 
        development of integrated transcontinental, interstate and 
        interprovincial rail systems in the States, territories and 
        provinces of the two countries;
            (3) United States and Canadian federal support for the 
        completion of new elements of the transcontinental, interstate 
        and interprovincial rail systems was halted before rail 
        connections were established to the State of Alaska and the 
        Yukon Territory;
            (4) rail transportation in otherwise isolated areas 
        facilitates controlled access and may reduce overall impact to 
        environmentally sensitive areas;
            (5) the extension of the continental rail system through 
        northern British Columbia and the Yukon Territory to the current 
        terminus of the Alaska Railroad would significantly benefit the 
        United States and Canadian visitor industries by facilitating 
        the comfortable movement of passengers over long distances while 
        minimizing effects on the surrounding areas; and
            (6) ongoing research and development efforts in the rail 
        industry continue to increase the efficiency of rail 
        transportation, ensure safety, and decrease the impact of rail 
        service on the environment.
SEC. 303. AGREEMENT FOR A UNITED STATES-CANADA BILATERAL 
                        COMMISSION.

    The President is authorized and urged to enter into an agreement 
with the Government of Canada to establish an independent joint 
commission to study the feasibility and advisability of linking the rail 
system in Alaska to the nearest appropriate point on the North American 
continental rail system.

SEC. 304. COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Membership.--
            (1) Total membership.--The Agreement should provide for the 
        Commission to be composed of 24 members, of which 12 members are 
        appointed by the President and 12 members are appointed by the 
        Government of Canada.
            (2) General qualifications.--The Agreement should provide 
        for the membership of the Commission, to the maximum extent 
        practicable, to be representative of--
                    (A) the interests of the local communities 
                (including the governments of the communities), 
                aboriginal peoples, and businesses that would be 
                affected by the connection

[[Page 114 STAT. 3044]]

                of the rail system in Alaska to the North American 
                continental rail system; and
                    (B) a broad range of expertise in areas of knowledge 
                that are relevant to the significant issues to be 
                considered by the Commission, including economics, 
                engineering, management of resources, social sciences, 
                fish and game management, environmental sciences, and 
                transportation.

    (b) United <<NOTE: President.>> States Membership.--If the United 
States and Canada enter into an agreement providing for the 
establishment of the Commission, the President shall appoint the United 
States members of the Commission as follows:
            (1) Two members from among persons who are qualified to 
        represent the interests of communities and local governments of 
        Alaska.
            (2) One member representing the State of Alaska, to be 
        nominated by the Governor of Alaska.
            (3) One member from among persons who are qualified to 
        represent the interests of Native Alaskans residing in the area 
        of Alaska that would be affected by the extension of rail 
        service.
            (4) Three members from among persons involved in commercial 
        activities in Alaska who are qualified to represent commercial 
        interests in Alaska, of which one shall be a representative of 
        the Alaska Railroad Corporation.
            (5) One member representing United States Class I rail 
        carriers and one member representing United States rail labor.
            (6) Three members with relevant expertise, at least one of 
        whom shall be an engineer with expertise in subarctic 
        transportation and at least one of whom shall have expertise on 
        the environmental impact of such transportation.

    (c) Canadian Membership.--The Agreement should provide for the 
Canadian membership of the Commission to be representative of broad 
categories of interests of Canada as the Government of Canada determines 
appropriate, consistent with subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 305. GOVERNANCE AND STAFFING OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Chairman.--The Agreement should provide for the Chairman of the 
Commission to be elected from among the members of the Commission by a 
majority vote of the members.
    (b) Compensation and Expenses of United States Members.--
            (1) Compensation.--Each member of the Commission appointed 
        by the President who is not an officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government shall be compensated at a rate equal to the 
        daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for 
        level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 
        5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) 
        during which such member is engaged in the performance of the 
        duties of the Commission. Each such member who is an officer or 
        employee of the United States shall serve without compensation 
        in addition to that received for services as an officer or 
        employee of the United States.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Commission 
        appointed by the President shall be allowed travel expenses, 
        including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized 
        for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
        title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes

[[Page 114 STAT. 3045]]

        or regular places of business in the performance of services for 
        the Commission.

    (c) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Agreement should provide for the 
        appointment of a staff and an executive director to be the head 
        of the staff.
            (2) Compensation.--Funds made available for the Commission 
        by the United States may be used to pay the compensation of the 
        executive director and other personnel at rates fixed by the 
        Commission that are not in excess of the rate payable for level 
        V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
        United States Code.

    (d) Office.--The Agreement should provide for the office of the 
Commission to be located in a mutually agreed location within the 
impacted areas of Alaska, the Yukon Territory, and northern British 
Columbia.
    (e) Meetings.--The Agreement should provide for the Commission to 
meet at least biannually to review progress and to provide guidance to 
staff and others, and to hold, in locations within the affected areas of 
Alaska, the Yukon Territory and northern British Columbia, such 
additional informational or public meetings as the Commission deems 
necessary to the conduct of its business.
    (f) Procurement of Services.--The Agreement should authorize and 
encourage the Commission to procure by contract, to the maximum extent 
practicable, the services (including any temporary and intermittent 
services) that the Commission determines necessary for carrying out the 
duties of the Commission. In the case of any contract for the services 
of an individual, funds made available for the Commission by the United 
States may not be used to pay for the services of the individual at a 
rate that exceeds the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 306. DUTIES.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Agreement should provide for the 
        Commission to study and assess, on the basis of all available 
        relevant information, the feasibility and advisability of 
        linking the rail system in Alaska to the North American 
        continental rail system through the continuation of the rail 
        system in Alaska from its northeastern terminus to a connection 
        with the continental rail system in Canada.
            (2) Specific issues.--The Agreement should provide for the 
        study and assessment to include the consideration of the 
        following issues:
                    (A) Railroad engineering.
                    (B) Land ownership.
                    (C) Geology.
                    (D) Proximity to mineral, timber, tourist, and other 
                resources.
                    (E) Market outlook.
                    (F) Environmental considerations.
                    (G) Social effects, including changes in the use or 
                availability of natural resources.
                    (H) Potential financing mechanisms.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3046]]

            (3) Route.--The Agreement should provide for the Commission, 
        upon finding that it is feasible and advisable to link the rail 
        system in Alaska as described in paragraph (1), to determine one 
        or more recommended routes for the rail segment that establishes 
        the linkage, taking into consideration cost, distance, access to 
        potential freight markets, environmental matters, existing 
        corridors that are already used for ground transportation, the 
        route surveyed by the Army Corps of Engineers during World War 
        II and such other factors as the Commission determines relevant.
            (4) Combined corridor evaluation.--The Agreement should also 
        provide for the Commission to consider whether it would be 
        feasible and advisable to combine the power transmission 
        infrastructure and petroleum product pipelines of other 
        utilities into one corridor with a rail extension of the rail 
        system of Alaska.

    (b) Report.--The Agreement <<NOTE: Deadline.>> should require the 
Commission to submit to Congress and the Secretary of Transportation and 
to the Minister of Transport of the Government of Canada, not later than 
3 years after the Commission commencement date, a report on the results 
of the study, including the Commission's findings regarding the 
feasibility and advisability of linking the rail system in Alaska as 
described in subsection (a)(1) and the Commission's recommendations 
regarding the preferred route and any alternative routes for the rail 
segment establishing the linkage.

SEC. 307. COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Commencement.--The Agreement should provide for the Commission 
to begin to function on the date on which all members are appointed to 
the Commission as provided for in the Agreement.
    (b) Termination.--The Commission should be terminated 90 days after 
the date on which the Commission submits its report under section 306.

SEC. 308. FUNDING.

    (a) Rails to Resources Fund.--The Agreement should provide for the 
following:
            (1) Establishment.--The establishment of an interest-bearing 
        account to be known as the ``Rails to Resources Fund''.
            (2) Contributions.--The contribution by the United States 
        and the Government of Canada to the Fund of amounts that are 
        sufficient for the Commission to carry out its duties.
            (3) Availability.--The availability of amounts in the Fund 
        to pay the costs of Commission activities.
            (4) Dissolution.--Dissolution of the Fund upon the 
        termination of the Commission and distribution of the amounts 
        remaining in the Fund between the United States and the 
        Government of Canada.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to any fund established for use by the Commission as 
described in subsection (a)(1) $6,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

SEC. 309. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means an agreement 
        described in section 303.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3047]]

            (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means a commission 
        established pursuant to any Agreement.

TITLE IV--PACIFIC <<NOTE: Pacific Charter Commission Act of 2000. 22 USC 
2656 note.>> CHARTER COMMISSION ACT OF 2000

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Pacific Charter Commission Act of 
2000''.

SEC. 402. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to promote a consistent and coordinated foreign policy 
        of the United States to ensure economic and military security in 
        the Asia-Pacific region;
            (2) to support democratization, the rule of law, and human 
        rights in the Asia-Pacific region;
            (3) to promote United States exports to the Asia-Pacific 
        region by advancing economic cooperation;
            (4) to assist in combating terrorism and the spread of 
        illicit narcotics in the Asia-Pacific region; and
            (5) to advocate an active role for the United States 
        Government in diplomacy, security, and the furtherance of good 
        governance and the rule of law in the Asia-Pacific region.

SEC. 403. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--The President is authorized to establish a 
commission to be known as the Pacific Charter Commission (hereafter in 
this title referred to as the ``Commission'').
    (b) Expiration of Authority.--The authority to establish the 
Commission under this section shall expire at the close of December 31, 
2002.

SEC. 404. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Duties.--The Commission should establish and carry out, either 
directly or through nongovernmental organizations, programs, projects, 
and activities to achieve the purposes described in section 402, 
including research and educational or legislative exchanges between the 
United States and countries in the Asia-Pacific region.
    (b) Monitoring of Developments.--The Commission should monitor 
developments in countries of the Asia-Pacific region with respect to 
United States foreign policy toward such countries, the status of 
democratization, the rule of law and human rights in the region, 
economic relations among the United States and such countries, and 
activities related to terrorism and the illicit narcotics trade.
    (c) Policy Review and Recommendations.--In carrying out this 
section, the Commission should evaluate United States Government 
policies toward countries of the Asia-Pacific region and recommend 
options for policies of the United States Government with respect to 
such countries, with a particular emphasis on countries that are of 
importance to the foreign policy, economic, and military interests of 
the United States.
    (d) Contacts With Other Entities.--In performing the functions 
described in subsections (a) through (c), the Commission

[[Page 114 STAT. 3048]]

should, as appropriate, seek out and maintain contacts with 
nongovernmental organizations, international organizations, and 
representatives of industry, including receiving reports and updates 
from such organizations and evaluating such reports.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than <<NOTE: Deadlines.>> 18 months 
after the date of the establishment of the Commission, and not later 
than the end of each 12-month period thereafter, the Commission shall 
prepare and submit to the President and Congress a report that contains 
the findings of the Commission, in the case of the initial report, 
during the period since the date of establishment of the Commission, or, 
in the case of each subsequent report, during the preceding 12-month 
period. Each such report shall contain--
            (1) recommendations for legislative, executive, or other 
        actions resulting from the evaluation of policies described in 
        subsection (c);
            (2) a description of programs, projects, and activities of 
        the Commission for the prior year or, in the case of the initial 
        report, since the date of establishment of the Commission; and
            (3) a complete accounting of the expenditures made by the 
        Commission during the prior year or, in the case of the initial 
        report, since the date of establishment of the Commission.

SEC. 405. MEMBERSHIP OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Composition.--If established pursuant to section 403, the 
Commission shall be composed of seven members all of whom--
            (1) shall be citizens of the United States who are not 
        officers or employees of any government, except to the extent 
        they are considered such officers or employees by virtue of 
        their membership on the Commission; and
            (2) shall have interest and expertise in issues relating to 
        the Asia-Pacific region.

    (b) Appointment.--
            (1) In general.--The individuals referred to in subsection 
        (a) shall be appointed--
                    (A) by the President, after consultation with the 
                Speaker and Minority Leader of the House of 
                Representatives, the Chairman and ranking member of the 
                Committee on International Relations of the House of 
                Representatives, the Majority Leader and Minority Leader 
                of the Senate, and the Chairman and ranking member of 
                the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
                    (B) by and with the advice and consent of the 
                Senate.
            (2) Political affiliation.--Not more than four of the 
        individuals appointed under paragraph (1) may be affiliated with 
        the same political party.

    (c) Term.--Each member of the Commission shall be appointed for a 
term of 6 years.
    (d) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the 
same manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (e) Chairperson; <<NOTE: President.>> Vice Chairperson.--The 
President shall designate a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the 
Commission from among the members of the Commission.

    (f) Compensation.--
            (1) Rates of pay.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        members of the Commission shall serve without pay.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3049]]

            (2) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Commission may 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 
        5, United States Code.

    (g) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
Chairperson.
    (h) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
    (i) Affirmative Determinations.--An affirmative vote by a majority 
of the members of the Commission shall be required for any affirmative 
determination by the Commission under section 404.

SEC. 406. POWERS OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Hearings and Investigations.--The Commission may hold such 
hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony and 
receive such evidence, and conduct such investigations as the Commission 
considers advisable to carry out this title.
    (b) Information From Federal Agencies.--The Commission may secure 
directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the 
Commission considers necessary to carry out this title. Upon request of 
the Chairperson of the Commission, the head of any such department or 
agency shall furnish such information to the Commission as expeditiously 
as possible.
    (c) Contributions.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of 
gifts, bequests, or devises of services or property, both real and 
personal, for the purpose of assisting or facilitating the work of the 
Commission. Gifts, bequests, or devises of money and proceeds from sales 
of other property received as gifts, bequests, or devises shall be 
deposited in the Treasury and shall be available for disbursement upon 
order of the Commission.
    (d) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and 
agencies of the United States.

SEC. 407. STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Executive Director.--The Commission shall have an executive 
director appointed by the Commission who shall serve the Commission 
under such terms and conditions as the Commission determines to be 
appropriate.
    (b) Staff.--The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of such 
additional personnel, not to exceed 10 individuals, as it considers 
appropriate.
    (c) Staff of Federal Agencies.--Upon request of the chairperson of 
the Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, any of the personnel of the agency to the 
Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out its duties under 
this title.
    (d) Experts and Consultants.--The chairperson of the Commission may 
procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of 
title 5, United States Code.

SEC. 408. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate not later than 6 years after the date 
of the establishment of the Commission.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3050]]

SEC. 409. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--In the event the Commission is established, there 
are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this title $2,500,000 for 
the initial 24-month period of the existence of the Commission.
    (b) Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations under subsection (a) are authorized to 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 410. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This title shall take effect on February 1, 2001.

                    TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 501. <<NOTE: 50 USC 1701 note.>> ASSISTANCE EFFORTS IN SUDAN.

    (a) Additional Authorities.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the President is authorized to undertake appropriate programs using 
Federal agencies, contractual arrangements, or direct support of 
indigenous groups, agencies, or organizations in areas outside of 
control of the Government of Sudan in an effort to provide emergency 
relief, promote economic self-sufficiency, build civil authority, 
provide education, enhance rule of law and the development of judicial 
and legal frameworks, support people-to-people reconciliation efforts, 
or implement any program in support of any viable peace agreement at the 
local, regional, or national level in Sudan.
    (b) Exception to Export Prohibitions.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, the prohibitions set forth with respect to Sudan in 
Executive Order No. 13067 of November 3, 1997 (62 Fed. Register 59989) 
shall not apply to any export from an area in Sudan outside of control 
of the Government of Sudan, or to any necessary transaction directly 
related to that export, if the President determines that the export or 
related transaction, as the case may be, would directly benefit the 
economic development of that area and its people.

SEC. 502. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TOWING ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States LST Association (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Association'') is a patriotic organization 
        dedicated to honoring the memories of those brave American 
        servicemen who selflessly served, and often made the ultimate 
        sacrifice, in the defense of the United States, its allies, and 
        the principles of democracy and freedom.
            (2) The Association is currently engaged in efforts to 
        return to the United States the former United States warship, 
        Landing Ship Tank 325 (LST 325) to serve as a memorial to those 
        American servicemen who went into harm's way aboard and from 
        such warships.

    (b) Authorization.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to 
provide towing services from a suitable vessel of the United States Navy 
to tow the former LST 325 from its present location, or a location to be 
determined by the Secretary, to a port on the East Coast of the United 
States to be determined by the Secretary. The Secretary of the Navy may 
not provide such services unless the Secretary finds that the provision 
of such services will not interfere with military operations, military 
readiness, naval

[[Page 114 STAT. 3051]]

force presence requirements, or the accomplishment of the specific 
missions of the vessel providing the towing services.
    (c) Limitations.--The services authorized by subsection (b) may not 
be provided except as part of a regular rotation of the vessel providing 
the services back to the United States. Such services may be provided 
only after--
            (1) the former LST 325 has been determined by a professional 
        marine survey or by the United States Coast Guard to be 
        seaworthy for towing and meeting requirements for entry into a 
        United States port; and
            (2) the Association has named the United States Navy as an 
        additional insured party to the tow hull policy covering the 
        former LST 325, including a waiver of subrogation.

    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
provision of towing services under this section as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 503. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY IN 
                        BULGARIA.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that the American University in 
Bulgaria--
            (1) is a fine educational institution that has received 
        generous and well-deserved financial assistance from the United 
        States Government;
            (2) has a successful track record and is educating a 
        generation of leaders who will shape and determine the future of 
        their own societies;
            (3) has instilled in students in the Balkan region of Europe 
        the intellectual rigor of the American system of higher 
        education;
            (4) promotes the study and understanding of democratic 
        governance principles;
            (5) maintains entrance and academic standards that are 
        exemplary and has a commitment to providing educational 
        opportunities that is based upon merit rather than solely on the 
        ability of students to bear the entire cost of their education; 
        and
            (6) is a cost-effective institution of higher learning and 
        offers a high-quality education.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should assist the American University in Bulgaria to become a 
self-sustaining institution of higher education in the Balkan region of 
Europe.

 TITLE VI--PAUL D. <<NOTE: Paul D. Coverdell World Wise Schools Act of 
2000. 22 USC 2517 note.>> COVERDELL WORLD WISE SCHOOLS ACT OF 2000

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Paul D. Coverdell World Wise 
Schools Act of 2000''.

SEC. 602. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:

[[Page 114 STAT. 3052]]

            (1) Paul D. Coverdell was elected to the Georgia State 
        Senate in 1970 and later became Minority Leader of the Georgia 
        State Senate, a post he held for 15 years.
            (2) As the 11th Director of the Peace Corps from 1989 to 
        1991, Paul Coverdell's dedication to the ideals of peace and 
        understanding helped to shape today's Peace Corps.
            (3) Paul D. Coverdell believed that Peace Corps volunteers 
        could not only make a difference in the countries where they 
        served but that the greatest benefit could be felt at home.
            (4) In 1989, Paul D. Coverdell founded the Peace Corps World 
        Wise Schools Program to help fulfill the Third Goal of the Peace 
        Corps, ``to promote a better understanding of the people served 
        among people of the United States''.
            (5) The World Wise Schools Program is an innovative 
        education program that seeks to engage learners in an inquiry 
        about the world, themselves, and others in order to broaden 
        perspectives; promote cultural awareness; appreciate global 
        connections; and encourage service.
            (6) In a world that is increasingly interdependent and ever 
        changing, the World Wise Schools Program pays tribute to Paul D. 
        Coverdell's foresight and leadership. In the words of one World 
        Wise Schools teacher, ``It's a teacher's job to touch the future 
        of a child; it's the Peace Corps' job to touch the future of the 
        world. What more perfect partnership.''.
            (7) Paul D. Coverdell served in the United States Senate 
        from the State of Georgia from 1993 until his sudden death on 
        July 18, 2000.
            (8) Senator Paul D. Coverdell was beloved by his colleagues 
        for his civility, bipartisan efforts, and his dedication to 
        public service.
SEC. 603. DESIGNATION OF PAUL D. COVERDELL WORLD WISE SCHOOLS 
                        PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Effective on the <<NOTE: Effective date.>> date of 
enactment of this Act, the program under section 18 of the Peace Corps 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2517) referred to before such date as the ``World Wise 
Schools Program'' is redesignated as the ``Paul D. Coverdell World Wise 
Schools Program''.

[[Page 114 STAT. 3053]]

    (b) References.--Any reference before the date of enactment of this 
Act in any law, regulation, order, document, record, or other paper of 
the United States to the Peace Corps World Wise Schools Program shall, 
on and after such date, be considered to refer to the Paul D. Coverdell 
World Wise Schools Program.

    Approved December 27, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2943 (S. 2940):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 146 (2000):
            Oct. 19, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 27, considered and passed House, amended.
            Dec. 14, Senate concurred in House amendments with an 
                amendment.
            Dec. 15, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>