[106th Congress Public Law 164]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ164.106]


[[Page 1791]]

FALLEN TIMBERS BATTLEFIELD AND FORT MIAMIS NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE ACT OF 
                                  1999

[[Page 113 STAT. 1792]]

Public Law 106-164
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To <<NOTE: Dec. 9, 1999 -  [S. 548]>>  establish the Fallen Timbers 
  Battlefield and Fort Miamis National Historical Site in the State of 
                                  Ohio.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in <<NOTE: Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort 
Miamis National Historic Site Act of 1999. 16 USC 461 note.>>  Congress 
assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort 
Miamis National Historic Site Act of 1999''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this Act:
            (1) The term ``historic site'' means the Fallen Timbers 
        Battlefield and Monument and Fort Miamis National Historic Site 
        established by section 4 of this Act.
            (2) The term ``management plan'' means the general 
        management plan developed pursuant to section 5(d).
            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (4) The term ``management entity'' means the Metropolitan 
        Park District of the Toledo Area.
            (5) The term ``technical assistance'' means any guidance, 
        advice, or other aid, other than financial assistance, provided 
        by the Secretary.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The 185-acre Fallen Timbers Battlefield is the site of 
        the 1794 battle between General Anthony Wayne and a 
        confederation of Native American tribes led by Little Turtle and 
        Blue Jacket.
            (2) Fort Miamis was occupied by General Wayne's legion from 
        1796 to 1798.
            (3) In the spring of 1813, British troops, led by General 
        Henry Proctor, landed at Fort Miamis and attacked the fort 
        twice, without success.
            (4) Fort Miamis and Fallen Timbers Battlefield are in Lucas 
        County, Ohio, in the city of Maumee.
            (5) The 9-acre Fallen Timbers Battlefield Monument is listed 
        as a National Historic Landmark.
            (6) Fort Miamis is listed in the National Register of 
        Historic Places as a historic site.
            (7) In 1959, the Fallen Timbers Battlefield was included in 
        the National Survey of Historic Sites and Buildings as 1


[[Page 113 STAT. 1793]]

        of 22 sites representing the ``Advance of the Frontier, 1763-
        1830''.
            (8) In 1960, the Fallen Timbers Battlefield was designated 
        as a National Historic Landmark.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to recognize and preserve the 185-acre Fallen Timbers 
        Battlefield site;
            (2) to recognize and preserve the Fort Miamis site;
            (3) to formalize the linkage of the Fallen Timbers 
        Battlefield and Monument to Fort Miamis;
            (4) to preserve and interpret United States military history 
        and Native American culture during the period from 1794 through 
        1813;
            (5) to provide assistance to the State of Ohio, political 
        subdivisions of the State, and nonprofit organizations in the 
        State to implement the management plan and develop programs that 
        will preserve and interpret the historical, cultural, natural, 
        recreational and scenic resources of the historic site; and
            (6) to authorize the Secretary to provide technical 
        assistance to the State of Ohio, political subdivisions of the 
        State, and nonprofit organizations in the State, including the 
        Ohio Historical Society, the city of Maumee, the Maumee Valley 
        Heritage Corridor, the Fallen Timbers Battlefield Commission, 
        Heidelberg College, the city of Toledo, and the Metropark 
        District of the Toledo Area, to implement the management plan.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FALLEN TIMBERS BATTLEFIELD AND FORT 
                    MIAMIS NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) In General.--There is established, as an affiliated area of the 
National Park System, the Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort Miamis 
National Historic Site in the State of Ohio.
    (b) Description.--The historic site is comprised of the following as 
generally depicted on the map entitled Fallen Timbers Battlefield and 
Fort Miamis National Historical Site-proposed, number NHS-FTFM, and 
dated May 1999:
            (1) The Fallen Timbers site, comprised generally of the 
        following:
                    (A) The Fallen Timbers Battlefield site, consisting 
                of an approximately 185-acre parcel located north of 
                U.S. 24, west of U.S. 23/I-475, south of the Norfolk and 
                Western Railroad line, and east of Jerome Road.
                    (B) The approximately 9-acre Fallen Timbers 
                Battlefield Monument, located south of U.S. 24; and
            (2) The Fort Miamis Park site.

    (c) Map.--The map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.

SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION OF HISTORIC SITES.

    (a) Applicability of National Park System Laws.--The historic site 
shall be administered in a manner consistent with this Act and all laws 
generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including the 
Act of August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4; commonly known as the National 
Park Service Organic Act), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 
et seq.; commonly known as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and 
Antiquities Act).
    (b) Cooperative Agreement.--The Secretary may enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the management entity to provide technical 
assistance to ensure the marking, research, interpretation,

[[Page 113 STAT. 1794]]

education and preservation of the Fallen Timbers Battlefield and Fort 
Miamis National Historic Site.
    (c) Reimbursement.--Any payment made by the Secretary pursuant to 
this section shall be subject to an agreement that conversion, use, or 
disposal of the project so assisted for purposes contrary to the 
purposes of this section as determined by the Secretary, shall result in 
a right of the United States to reimbursement of all funds made 
available to such project or the proportion of the increased value of 
the project attributable to such funds as determined at the time of such 
conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.
    (d) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        management entity and Native American tribes whose ancestors 
        were involved in events at these sites, shall develop a general 
        management plan for the historic site. The plan shall be 
        prepared in accordance with section 12(b) of Public Law 91-383 
        (16 U.S.C. 1a-1 et seq.; commonly known as the National Park 
        System General Authorities Act).
            (2) Completion.--The plan shall be completed not later than 
        2 years after the date funds are made available.
            (3) Transmittal.--Not later than 30 days after completion of 
        the plan, the Secretary shall provide a copy of the plan to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

    There is authorized to be appropriated such funds as are necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved December 9, 1999.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 548:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-64 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 145 (1999):
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 18, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>