[106th Congress Public Law 174]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ174.106]


[[Page 17]]

           POISON CONTROL CENTER ENHANCEMENT AND AWARENESS ACT

[[Page 114 STAT. 18]]

Public Law 106-174
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide assistance for poison prevention and to stabilize the funding 
of regional poison control centers. <<NOTE: Feb. 25, 2000 -  [S. 632]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Poison Control 
Center Enhancement and Awareness Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14801 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Poison Control Center Enhancement and 
Awareness Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14801.>> 

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Each year more than 2,000,000 poisonings are reported to 
        poison control centers throughout the United States. More than 
        90 percent of these poisonings happen in the home. Fifty-three 
        percent of poisoning victims are children younger than 6 years 
        of age.
            (2) Poison control centers are a valuable national resource 
        that provide life-saving and cost-effective public health 
        services. For every dollar spent on poison control centers, $7 
        in medical costs are saved. The average cost of a poisoning 
        exposure call is $32, while the average cost if other parts of 
        the medical system are involved is $932. Over the last 2 
        decades, the instability and lack of funding has resulted in a 
        steady decline in the number of poison control centers in the 
        United States. Within just the last year, 2 poison control 
        centers have been forced to close because of funding problems. A 
        third poison control center is scheduled to close in April 1999. 
        Currently, there are 73 such centers.
            (3) Stabilizing the funding structure and increasing 
        accessibility to poison control centers will increase the number 
        of United States residents who have access to a certified poison 
        control center, and reduce the inappropriate use of emergency 
        medical services and other more costly health care services.

SEC. 3. DEFINITION. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14802.>> 

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL TOLL-FREE NUMBER. <<NOTE: 42 USC 
            14803.>> 

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide coordination and 
assistance to regional poison control centers for the establishment of a 
nationwide toll-free phone number to be used to access such centers.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as prohibiting the establishment or continued operation

[[Page 114 STAT. 19]]

of any privately funded nationwide toll-free phone number used to 
provide advice and other assistance for poisonings or accidental 
exposures.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $2,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2000 through 2004. Funds appropriated under this subsection 
shall not be used to fund any toll-free phone number described in 
subsection (b).

SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONWIDE MEDIA CAMPAIGN. <<NOTE: 42 USC 
            14804.>> 

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall establish a national media 
campaign to educate the public and health care providers about poison 
prevention and the availability of poison control resources in local 
communities and to conduct advertising campaigns concerning the 
nationwide toll-free number established under section 4.
    (b) Contract With Entity.--The Secretary may carry out subsection 
(a) by entering into contracts with 1 or more nationally recognized 
media firms for the development and distribution of monthly television, 
radio, and newspaper public service announcements.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $600,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2000 through 2004.

SEC. 6. ESTABLISHMENT OF A GRANT PROGRAM. <<NOTE: 42 USC 14805.>> 

    (a) Regional Poison Control Centers.--The Secretary shall award 
grants to certified regional poison control centers for the purposes of 
achieving the financial stability of such centers, and for preventing 
and providing treatment recommendations for poisonings.
    (b) Other Improvements.--The Secretary shall also use amounts 
received under this section to--
            (1) develop standard education programs;
            (2) develop standard patient management protocols for 
        commonly encountered toxic exposures;
            (3) improve and expand the poison control data collection 
        systems;
            (4) improve national toxic exposure surveillance; and
            (5) expand the physician/medical toxicologist supervision of 
        poison control centers.

    (c) Certification.--Except as provided in subsection (d), the 
Secretary may make a grant to a center under subsection (a) only if--
            (1) the center has been certified by a professional 
        organization in the field of poison control, and the Secretary 
        has approved the organization as having in effect standards for 
        certification that reasonably provide for the protection of the 
        public health with respect to poisoning; or
            (2) the center has been certified by a State government, and 
        the Secretary has approved the State government as having in 
        effect standards for certification that reasonably provide for 
        the protection of the public health with respect to poisoning.

    (d) Waiver of Certification Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may grant a waiver of the 
        certification requirement of subsection (c) with respect to a 
        noncertified poison control center or a newly established center 
        that applies for a grant under this section if such center

[[Page 114 STAT. 20]]

        can reasonably demonstrate that the center will obtain such a 
        certification within a reasonable period of time as determined 
        appropriate by the Secretary.
            (2) Renewal.--The Secretary may only renew a waiver under 
        paragraph (1) for a period of 3 years.

    (e) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available to a poison 
control center under this section shall be used to supplement and not 
supplant other Federal, State, or local funds provided for such center.
    (f) Maintenance of Effort.--A poison control center, in utilizing 
the proceeds of a grant under this section, shall maintain the 
expenditures of the center for activities of the center at a level that 
is not less than the level of such expenditures maintained by the center 
for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the grant is 
received.
    (g) Matching Requirement.--The Secretary may impose a matching 
requirement with respect to amounts provided under a grant under this 
section if the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $25,000,000 for each of the 
fiscal years 2000 through 2004.

    Approved February 25, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 632 (H.R. 1221):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Aug. 5, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Feb. 8, considered and passed House.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 36 (2000):
            Feb. 25, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>