[106th Congress Public Law 487]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ487.106]


[[Page 2201]]

     VICKSBURG CAMPAIGN TRAIL BATTLEFIELDS PRESERVATION ACT OF 2000

[[Page 114 STAT. 2202]]

Public Law 106-487
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To authorize a feasibility study on the preservation of certain Civil 
  War battlefields along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail. <<NOTE: Nov. 9, 
                           2000 -  [S. 710]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Vicksburg Campaign Trail 
Battlefields Preservation Act of 2000. State listing.>>  assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Vicksburg Campaign Trail Battlefields 
Preservation Act of 2000''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) there are situated along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail in 
        the States of Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Tennessee 
        the sites of several key Civil War battles;
            (2) the battlefields along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail are 
        collectively of national significance in the history of the 
        Civil War; and
            (3) the preservation of those battlefields would vitally 
        contribute to the understanding of the heritage of the United 
        States.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to authorize a feasibility 
study to determine what measures should be taken to preserve certain 
Civil War battlefields along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Campaign trail state.--The term ``Campaign Trail State'' 
        means each of the States of Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, 
        and Tennessee, including political subdivisions of those States.
            (2) Civil war battlefield.--The term ``Civil War 
        battlefield'' includes the following sites (including related 
        structures adjacent to or thereon)--
                    (A) the battlefields at Helena and Arkansas Post, 
                Arkansas;
                    (B) Goodrich's Landing near Transylvania, and sites 
                in and around Lake Providence, East Carroll Parish, 
                Louisiana;
                    (C) the battlefield at Milliken's Bend, Madison 
                Parish, Louisiana;
                    (D) the route of Grant's march through Louisiana 
                from Milliken's Bend to Hard Times, Madison and Tensas 
                Parishes, Louisiana;
                    (E) the Winter Quarters at Tensas Parish, Louisiana;

[[Page 114 STAT. 2203]]

                    (F) Grant's landing site at Bruinsburg, and the 
                route of Grant's march from Bruinsburg to Vicksburg, 
                Claiborne, Hinds, and Warren Counties, Mississippi;
                    (G) the battlefield at Port Gibson (including 
                Shaifer House, Bethel Church, and the ruins of Windsor), 
                Claiborne County, Mississippi;
                    (H) the battlefield at Grand Gulf, Claiborne County, 
                Mississippi;
                    (I) the battlefield at Raymond (including Waverly 
                (the Peyton House)), Hinds County, Mississippi;
                    (J) the battlefield at Jackson, Hinds County, 
                Mississippi;
                    (K) the Union siege lines around Jackson, Hinds 
                County, Mississippi;
                    (L) the battlefield at Champion Hill (including 
                Coker House), Hinds County, Mississippi;
                    (M) the battlefield at Big Black River Bridge, Hinds 
                and Warren Counties, Mississippi;
                    (N) the Union fortifications at Haynes Bluff, 
                Confederate fortifications at Snyder's Bluff, and 
                remnants of Federal exterior lines, Warren County, 
                Mississippi;
                    (O) the battlefield at Chickasaw Bayou, Warren 
                County, Mississippi;
                    (P) Pemberton's Headquarters at Warren County, 
                Mississippi;
                    (Q) the site of actions taken in the Mississippi 
                Delta and Confederate fortifications near Grenada, 
                Grenada County, Mississippi;
                    (R) the site of the start of Greirson's Raid and 
                other related sites, LaGrange, Tennessee; and
                    (S) any other sites considered appropriate by the 
                Secretary.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National 
        Park Service.

SEC. 4. FEASIBILITY STUDY.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In General.--Not later than 3 years after 
funds are made available for this Act, the Secretary shall complete a 
feasibility study to determine what measures should be taken to preserve 
Civil War battlefields along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail.

    (b) Components.--In completing the study, the Secretary shall--
            (1) review current National Park Service programs, policies 
        and criteria to determine the most appropriate means of ensuring 
        the Civil War battlefields and associated natural, cultural, and 
        historical resources are preserved;
            (2) evaluate options for the establishment of a management 
        entity for the Civil War battlefields consisting of a unit of 
        government or a private nonprofit organization that--
                    (A) administers and manages the Civil War 
                battlefields; and
                    (B) possesses the legal authority to--
                          (i) receive Federal funds and funds from other 
                      units of government or other organizations for use 
                      in managing the Civil War battlefields;

[[Page 114 STAT. 2204]]

                          (ii) disburse Federal funds to other units of 
                      government or other nonprofit organizations for 
                      use in managing the Civil War battlefields;
                          (iii) enter into agreements with the Federal 
                      Government, State governments, or other units of 
                      government and nonprofit organizations; and
                          (iv) acquire land or interests in land by gift 
                      or devise, by purchase from a willing seller using 
                      donated or appropriated funds, or by donation;
            (3) make recommendations to the Campaign Trail States for 
        the management, preservation, and interpretation of the natural, 
        cultural, and historical resources of the Civil War 
        battlefields;
            (4) identify appropriate partnerships among Federal, State, 
        and local governments, regional entities, and the private 
        sector, including nonprofit organizations and the organization 
        known as ``Friends of the Vicksburg Campaign and Historic 
        Trail'', in furtherance of the purposes of this Act; and
            (5) recommend methods of ensuring continued local 
        involvement and participation in the management, protection, and 
        development of the Civil War battlefields.

    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Report.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date of completion of the study under this section, the Secretary shall 
submit a report describing the findings of the study to--
            (1) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.

    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this Act $1,500,000.

    Approved November 9, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 710:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-184 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Oct. 23, considered and passed 
                                        House.

                                  <all>