[106th Congress Public Law 511]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ511.106]


[[Page 114 STAT. 2365]]

Public Law 106-511
106th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide for equitable compensation for the Cheyenne River Sioux 
   Tribe, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 13, 2000 -  [S. 964]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

   TITLE I <<NOTE: Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe Equitable Compensation 
Act. South Dakota.>> --CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBE EQUITABLE COMPENSATION

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Cheyenne River Sioux Tribe 
Equitable Compensation Act''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) by enacting the Act of December 22, 1944 (58 Stat. 887, 
        chapter 665; 33 U.S.C. 701-1 et seq.), commonly known as the 
        ``Flood Control Act of 1944'', Congress approved the Pick-Sloan 
        Missouri River Basin program (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Pick-Sloan program'')--
                    (A) to promote the general economic development of 
                the United States;
                    (B) to provide for irrigation above Sioux City, 
                Iowa;
                    (C) to protect urban and rural areas from 
                devastating floods of the Missouri River; and
                    (D) for other purposes;
            (2) the Oahe Dam and Reservoir project--
                    (A) is a major component of the Pick-Sloan program, 
                and contributes to the economy of the United States by 
                generating a substantial amount of hydropower and 
                impounding a substantial quantity of water;
                    (B) overlies the eastern boundary of the Cheyenne 
                River Sioux Indian Reservation; and
                    (C) has not only contributed little to the economy 
                of the Tribe, but has severely damaged the economy of 
                the Tribe and members of the Tribe by inundating the 
                fertile, wooded bottom lands of the Tribe along the 
                Missouri River that constituted the most productive 
                agricultural and pastoral lands of the Tribe and the 
                homeland of the members of the Tribe;
            (3) the Secretary of the Interior appointed a Joint Tribal 
        Advisory Committee that examined the Oahe Dam and Reservoir 
        project and concluded that--

[[Page 114 STAT. 2366]]

                    (A) the Federal Government did not justify, or 
                fairly compensate the Tribe for, the Oahe Dam and 
                Reservoir project when the Federal Government acquired 
                104,492 acres of land of the Tribe for that project; and
                    (B) the Tribe should be adequately compensated for 
                the land acquisition described in subparagraph (A);
            (4) after applying the same method of analysis as is used 
        for the compensation of similarly situated Indian tribes, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States (referred to in this 
        title as the ``Comptroller General'') determined that the 
        appropriate amount of compensation to pay the Tribe for the land 
        acquisition described in paragraph (3)(A) would be $290,723,000;
            (5) the Tribe is entitled to receive additional financial 
        compensation for the land acquisition described in paragraph 
        (3)(A) in a manner consistent with the determination of the 
        Comptroller General described in paragraph (4); and
            (6) the establishment of a trust fund to make amounts 
        available to the Tribe under this title is consistent with the 
        principles of self-governance and self-determination.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are as follows:
            (1) To provide for additional financial compensation to the 
        Tribe for the acquisition by the Federal Government of 104,492 
        acres of land of the Tribe for the Oahe Dam and Reservoir 
        project in a manner consistent with the determinations of the 
        Comptroller General described in subsection (a)(4).
            (2) To provide for the establishment of the Cheyenne River 
        Sioux Tribal Recovery Trust Fund, to be managed by the Secretary 
        of the Treasury in order to make payments to the Tribe to carry 
        out projects under a plan prepared by the Tribe.

SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Cheyenne River 
        Sioux Tribe, which is comprised of the Itazipco, Siha Sapa, 
        Minniconjou, and Oohenumpa bands of the Great Sioux Nation that 
        reside on the Cheyenne River Reservation, located in central 
        South Dakota.
            (2) Tribal council.--The term ``Tribal Council'' means the 
        governing body of the Tribe.

SEC. 104. CHEYENNE RIVER SIOUX TRIBAL RECOVERY TRUST FUND.

    (a) Cheyenne River Sioux Tribal Recovery Trust Fund.--There is 
established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be known as 
the ``Cheyenne River Sioux Tribal Recovery Trust Fund'' (referred to in 
this title as the ``Fund''). The Fund shall consist of any amounts 
deposited into the Fund under this title.
    (b) Funding.--On the first day of the 11th fiscal year that begins 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall, from the General Fund of the Treasury, deposit into the Fund 
established under subsection (a)--
            (1) $290,722,958; and
            (2) an additional amount that equals the amount of interest 
        that would have accrued on the amount described in paragraph (1) 
        if such amount had been invested in interest-bearing obligations 
        of the United States, or in obligations guaranteed as to both 
        principal and interest by the United States, on the

[[Page 114 STAT. 2367]]

        first day of the first fiscal year that begins after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and compounded annually thereafter.

    (c) Investment of Trust Fund.--It shall be the duty of the Secretary 
of the Treasury to invest such portion of the Fund as is not, in the 
Secretary of the Treasury's judgment, required to meet current 
withdrawals. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing 
obligations of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both 
principal and interest by the United States. The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall deposit interest resulting from such investments into the 
Fund.
    (d) Payment of Interest to Tribe.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  Withdrawal of interest.--
        Beginning on the first day of the 11th fiscal year after the 
        date of enactment of this Act and, on the first day of each 
        fiscal year thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        withdraw the aggregate amount of interest deposited into the 
        Fund for that fiscal year and transfer that amount to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for use in accordance with paragraph 
        (2). Each amount so transferred shall be available without 
        fiscal year limitation.
            (2) Payments to tribe.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
                use the amounts transferred under paragraph (1) only for 
                the purpose of making payments to the Tribe, as such 
                payments are requested by the Tribe pursuant to tribal 
                resolution.
                    (B) Limitation.--Payments may be made by the 
                Secretary of the Interior under subparagraph (A) only 
                after the Tribe has adopted a plan under subsection (f).
                    (C) Use of payments by tribe.--The Tribe shall use 
                the payments made under subparagraph (B) only for 
                carrying out projects and programs under the plan 
                prepared under subsection (f).

    (e) Transfers and Withdrawals.--Except as provided in subsections 
(c) and (d)(1), the Secretary of the Treasury may not transfer or 
withdraw any amount deposited under subsection (b).
    (f) Plan.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  In general.--Not later than 18 
        months after the date of enactment of this Act, the governing 
        body of the Tribe shall prepare a plan for the use of the 
        payments to the Tribe under subsection (d) (referred to in this 
        subsection as the ``plan'').
            (2) Contents of plan.--The plan shall provide for the manner 
        in which the Tribe shall expend payments to the Tribe under 
        subsection (d) to promote--
                    (A) economic development;
                    (B) infrastructure development;
                    (C) the educational, health, recreational, and 
                social welfare objectives of the Tribe and its members; 
                or
                    (D) any combination of the activities described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C).
            (3) Plan review and revision.--
                    (A) In general.--The Tribal Council shall make 
                available for review and comment by the members of the 
                Tribe a copy of the plan before the plan becomes final, 
                in accordance with procedures established by the Tribal 
                Council.
                    (B) Updating of plan.--The Tribal Council may, on an 
                annual basis, revise the plan to update the plan. In

[[Page 114 STAT. 2368]]

                revising the plan under this subparagraph, the Tribal 
                Council shall provide the members of the Tribe 
                opportunity to review and comment on any proposed 
                revision to the plan.
                    (C) Consultation.--In preparing the plan and any 
                revisions to update the plan, the Tribal Council shall 
                consult with the Secretary of the Interior and the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            (4) Audit.--
                    (A) In general.--The activities of the Tribe in 
                carrying out the plan shall be audited as part of the 
                annual single-agency audit that the Tribe is required to 
                prepare pursuant to the Office of Management and Budget 
                circular numbered A-133.
                    (B) Determination by auditors.--The auditors that 
                conduct the audit described in subparagraph (A) shall--
                          (i) determine whether funds received by the 
                      Tribe under this section for the period covered by 
                      the audit were expended to carry out the plan in a 
                      manner consistent with this section; and
                          (ii) include in the written findings of the 
                      audit the determination made under clause (i).
                    (C) Inclusion of findings with publication of 
                proceedings of tribal council.--A copy of the written 
                findings of the audit described in subparagraph (A) 
                shall be inserted in the published minutes of the Tribal 
                Council proceedings for the session at which the audit 
                is presented to the Tribal Council.

    (g) Prohibition on Per Capita Payments.--No portion of any payment 
made under this title may be distributed to any member of the Tribe on a 
per capita basis.
SEC. 105. ELIGIBILITY OF TRIBE FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS AND SERVICES.

    No payment made to the Tribe under this title shall result in the 
reduction or denial of any service or program with respect to which, 
under Federal law--
            (1) the Tribe is otherwise entitled because of the status of 
        the Tribe as a federally recognized Indian tribe; or
            (2) any individual who is a member of the Tribe is entitled 
        because of the status of the individual as a member of the 
        Tribe.

SEC. 106. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such funds as may be 
necessary to cover the administrative expenses of the Fund.

SEC. 107. EXTINGUISHMENT OF CLAIMS.

    Upon the deposit of funds (together with interest) into the Fund 
under section 104(b), all monetary claims that the Tribe has or may have 
against the United States for the taking, by the United States, of the 
land and property of the Tribe for the Oahe Dam and Reservoir Project of 
the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin program shall be extinguished.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2369]]

   TITLE <<NOTE: Bosque Redondo Memorial Act. New Mexico. 16 USC 431 
note.>>  II--BOSQUE REDONDO MEMORIAL

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Bosque Redondo Memorial Act''.

SEC. 202. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) in 1863, the United States detained nearly 9,000 Navajo 
        and forced their migration across nearly 350 miles of land to 
        Bosque Redondo, a journey known as the ``Long Walk'';
            (2) Mescalero Apache people were also incarcerated at Bosque 
        Redondo;
            (3) the Navajo and Mescalero Apache people labored to plant 
        crops, dig irrigation ditches and build housing, but drought, 
        cutworms, hail, and alkaline Pecos River water created severe 
        living conditions for nearly 9,000 captives;
            (4) suffering and hardships endured by the Navajo and 
        Mescalero Apache people forged a new understanding of their 
        strengths as Americans;
            (5) the Treaty of 1868 was signed by the United States and 
        the Navajo tribes, recognizing the Navajo Nation as it exists 
        today;
            (6) the State of New Mexico has appropriated a total of 
        $123,000 for a planning study and for the design of the Bosque 
        Redondo Memorial;
            (7) individuals and businesses in DeBaca County donated 
        $6,000 toward the production of a brochure relating to the 
        Bosque Redondo Memorial;
            (8) the Village of Fort Sumner donated 70 acres of land to 
        the State of New Mexico contiguous to the existing 50 acres 
        comprising Fort Sumner State Monument, contingent on the funding 
        of the Bosque Redondo Memorial;
            (9) full architectural plans and the exhibit design for the 
        Bosque Redondo Memorial have been completed;
            (10) the Bosque Redondo Memorial project has the 
        encouragement of the President of the Navajo Nation and the 
        President of the Mescalero Apache Tribe, who have each appointed 
        tribal members to serve as project advisors;
            (11) the Navajo Nation, the Mescalero Tribe and the National 
        Park Service are collaborating to develop a symposium on the 
        Bosque Redondo Long Walk and a curriculum for inclusion in the 
        New Mexico school curricula;
            (12) an interpretive center would provide important 
        educational and enrichment opportunities for all Americans; and
            (13) Federal financial assistance is needed for the 
        construction of a Bosque Redondo Memorial.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are as follows:
            (1) To commemorate the people who were interned at Bosque 
        Redondo.
            (2) To pay tribute to the native populations' ability to 
        rebound from suffering, and establish the strong, living 
        communities that have long been a major influence in the State 
        of New Mexico and in the United States.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2370]]

            (3) To provide Americans of all ages a place to learn about 
        the Bosque Redondo experience and how it resulted in the 
        establishment of strong American Indian Nations from once 
        divergent bands.
            (4) To support the construction of the Bosque Redondo 
        Memorial commemorating the detention of the Navajo and Mescalero 
        Apache people at Bosque Redondo from 1863 to 1868.

 SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Memorial.--The term ``Memorial'' means the building and 
        grounds known as the Bosque Redondo Memorial.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Defense.

 SEC. 204. BOSQUE REDONDO MEMORIAL.

    (a) Establishment.-- Upon the request of the State of New Mexico, 
the Secretary is authorized to establish a Bosque Redondo Memorial 
within the boundaries of Fort Sumner State Monument in New Mexico. No 
memorial shall be established without the consent of the Navajo Nation 
and the Mescalero Tribe.
    (b) Components of the Memorial.--The memorial shall include--
            (1) exhibit space, a lobby area that represents design 
        elements from traditional Mescalero and Navajo dwellings, 
        administrative areas that include a resource room, library, 
        workrooms and offices, restrooms, parking areas, sidewalks, 
        utilities, and other visitor facilities;
            (2) a venue for public education programs; and
            (3) a location to commemorate the Long Walk of the Navajo 
        people and the healing that has taken place since that event.

SEC. 205. CONSTRUCTION OF MEMORIAL.

    (a) Grant.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may award a grant to the 
        State of New Mexico to provide up to 50 percent of the total 
        cost of construction of the Memorial.
            (2) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share of 
        construction costs for the Memorial shall include funds 
        previously expended by the State for the planning and design of 
        the Memorial, and funds previously expended by non-Federal 
        entities for the production of a brochure relating to the 
        Memorial.

    (b) Requirements.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, the State shall--
            (1) submit to the Secretary a proposal that--
                    (A) provides assurances that the Memorial will 
                comply with all applicable laws, including building 
                codes and regulations; and
                    (B) includes such other information and assurances 
                as the Secretary may require; and
            (2) enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the 
        Secretary that shall include--
                    (A) a timetable for the completion of construction 
                and the opening of the Memorial;
                    (B) assurances that construction contracts will be 
                competitively awarded;

[[Page 114 STAT. 2371]]

                    (C) assurances that the State or Village of Fort 
                Sumner will make sufficient land available for the 
                Memorial;
                    (D) the specifications of the Memorial which shall 
                comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local 
                building codes and laws;
                    (E) arrangements for the operation and maintenance 
                of the Memorial upon completion of construction;
                    (F) a description of Memorial collections and 
                educational programming;
                    (G) a plan for the design of exhibits including the 
                collections to be exhibited, security, preservation, 
                protection, environmental controls, and presentations in 
                accordance with professional standards;
                    (H) an agreement with the Navajo Nation and the 
                Mescalero Tribe relative to the design and location of 
                the Memorial; and
                    (I) a financing plan developed by the State that 
                outlines the long-term management of the Memorial, 
                including--
                          (i) the acceptance and use of funds derived 
                      from public and private sources to minimize the 
                      use of appropriated or borrowed funds;
                          (ii) the payment of the operating costs of the 
                      Memorial through the assessment of fees or other 
                      income generated by the Memorial;
                          (iii) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  a strategy for 
                      achieving financial self-sufficiency with respect 
                      to the Memorial by not later than 5 years after 
                      the date of enactment of this Act; and
                          (iv) a description of the business activities 
                      that would be permitted at the Memorial and 
                      appropriate vendor standards that would apply.

SEC. 206. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this title--
            (1) $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2000; and
            (2) $500,000 for each of fiscal years 2001 and 2002.

    (b) Carryover.--Any funds made available under this section that are 
unexpended at the end of the fiscal year for which those funds are 
appropriated, shall remain available for use by the Secretary through 
September 30, 2002 for the purposes for which those funds were made 
available.

 TITLE III--SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING THE NEED FOR CATALOGING AND 
                  MAINTAINING CERTAIN PUBLIC MEMORIALS

SEC. 301. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) There are many thousands of public memorials scattered 
        throughout the United States and abroad that commemorate 
        military conflicts of the United States and the service of 
        individuals in the Armed Forces.
            (2) These memorials have never been comprehensively 
        cataloged.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2372]]

            (3) Many of these memorials suffer from neglect and 
        disrepair, and many have been relocated or stored in facilities 
        where they are unavailable to the public and subject to further 
        neglect and damage.
            (4) There exists a need to collect and centralize 
        information regarding the location, status, and description of 
        these memorials.
            (5) The Federal Government maintains information on 
        memorials only if they are federally funded.
            (6) Remembering Veterans Who Earned Their Stripes (a 
        nonprofit corporation established as RVETS, Inc. under the laws 
        of the State of Nevada) has undertaken a self-funded program to 
        catalogue the memorials located in the United States that 
        commemorate military conflicts of the United States and the 
        service of individuals in the Armed Forces, and has already 
        obtained information on more than 7,000 memorials in 50 States.

    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the people of the United States owe a debt of gratitude 
        to veterans for their sacrifices in defending the Nation during 
        times of war and peace;
            (2) public memorials that commemorate military conflicts of 
        the United States and the service of individuals in the Armed 
        Forces should be maintained in good condition, so that future 
        generations may know of the burdens borne by these individuals;
            (3) Federal, State, and local agencies responsible for the 
        construction and maintenance of these memorials should cooperate 
        in cataloging these memorials and providing the resulting 
        information to the Department of the Interior; and
            (4) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
        Director of the National Park Service, should--
                    (A) collect and maintain information on public 
                memorials that commemorate military conflicts of the 
                United States and the service of individuals in the 
                Armed Forces;
                    (B) coordinate efforts at collecting and maintaining 
                this information with similar efforts by other entities, 
                such as Remembering Veterans Who Earned Their Stripes (a 
                nonprofit corporation established as RVETS, Inc. under 
                the laws of the State of Nevada); and
                    (C) make this information available to the public.

                TITLE IV--CONVEYANCE OF KINIKLIK VILLAGE

SEC. 401. CONVEYANCE OF KINIKLIK VILLAGE.

    (a) <<NOTE: Chugach Alaska Corporation.>>  That portion of the 
property identified in United States Survey Number 628, Tract A, 
containing 0.34 acres and Tract B containing 0.63 acres located in 
Section 26, Township 9 North, Range 10 East, Seward Meridian, containing 
0.97 acres, more or less, and further described as Tracts A and B 
Russian Greek Church Mission Reserve according to United States Survey 
628 shall be offered for a period of 1 year for sale by quitclaim deed 
from the United States by and through the Forest Service to Chugach 
Alaska Corporation under the following terms:

[[Page 114 STAT. 2373]]

            (1) Chugach Alaska Corporation shall pay consideration in 
        the amount of $9,000.00.
            (2) In order to protect the historic values for which the 
        Forest Service acquired the land, Chugach Alaska Corporation 
        shall agree to and the conveyance shall contain the same 
        reservations required by sections 2653.5(a) and 2653.11(b) of 
        title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, for protection of 
        historic and cemetery sites conveyed to a Regional Corporation 
        pursuant to section 14(h)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act.

    (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Forest Service 
shall deposit the proceeds from the sale to the Natural Resource Damage 
Assessment and Restoration Fund established by Public Law 102-154 and 
may be expended without further appropriation in accordance with Public 
Law 102-229.

        TITLE <<NOTE: Richmond National Battlefield Park Act of 
   2000. Virginia. Historic preservation.>>  V--REVISION OF RICHMOND 
NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD PARK BOUNDARIES

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE; DEFINITIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 423l-1.>> 

    (a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the ``Richmond National 
Battlefield Park Act of 2000''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this title:
            (1) Battlefield park.--The term ``battlefield park'' means 
        the Richmond National Battlefield Park.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 502. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE. <<NOTE: 16 USC 423l-2.>> 

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) In the Act of March 2, 1936 (Chapter 113; 49 Stat. 1155; 
        16 U.S.C. 423j), Congress authorized the establishment of the 
        Richmond National Battlefield Park, and the boundaries of the 
        battlefield park were established to permit the inclusion of all 
        military battlefield areas related to the battles fought during 
        the Civil War in the vicinity of the City of Richmond, Virginia. 
        The battlefield park originally included the area then known as 
        the Richmond Battlefield State Park.
            (2) The total acreage identified in 1936 for consideration 
        for inclusion in the battlefield park consisted of approximately 
        225,000 acres in and around the City of Richmond. A study 
        undertaken by the congressionally authorized Civil War Sites 
        Advisory Committee determined that of these 225,000 acres, the 
        historically significant areas relating to the campaigns against 
        and in defense of Richmond encompass approximately 38,000 acres.
            (3) In a 1996 general management plan, the National Park 
        Service identified approximately 7,121 acres in and around the 
        City of Richmond that satisfy the National Park Service criteria 
        of significance, integrity, feasibility, and suitability for 
        inclusion in the battlefield park. The National Park Service 
        later identified an additional 186 acres for inclusion in the 
        battlefield park.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2374]]

            (4) There is a national interest in protecting and 
        preserving sites of historical significance associated with the 
        Civil War and the City of Richmond.
            (5) The Commonwealth of Virginia and its local units of 
        government have authority to prevent or minimize adverse uses of 
        these historic resources and can play a significant role in the 
        protection of the historic resources related to the campaigns 
        against and in defense of Richmond.
            (6) The preservation of the New Market Heights Battlefield 
        in the vicinity of the City of Richmond is an important aspect 
        of American history that can be interpreted to the public. The 
        Battle of New Market Heights represents a premier landmark in 
        black military history as 14 black Union soldiers were awarded 
        the Medal of Honor in recognition of their valor during the 
        battle. According to National Park Service historians, the 
        sacrifices of the United States Colored Troops in this battle 
        helped to ensure the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment to the 
        United States Constitution to abolish slavery.

    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title--
            (1) to revise the boundaries for the Richmond National 
        Battlefield Park based on the findings of the Civil War Sites 
        Advisory Committee and the National Park Service; and
            (2) to direct the Secretary of the Interior to work in 
        cooperation with the Commonwealth of Virginia, the City of 
        Richmond, other political subdivisions of the Commonwealth, 
        other public entities, and the private sector in the management, 
        protection, and interpretation of the resources associated with 
        the Civil War and the Civil War battles in and around the City 
        of Richmond, Virginia.

SEC. 503. <<NOTE: Virginia. 16 USC 423l-3.>>  RICHMOND NATIONAL 
            BATTLEFIELD PARK; BOUNDARIES.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose.--For the purpose of protecting, 
managing, and interpreting the resources associated with the Civil War 
battles in and around the City of Richmond, Virginia, there is 
established the Richmond National Battlefield Park consisting of 
approximately 7,307 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Richmond National Battlefield Park Boundary Revision'', 
numbered 367N.E.F.A.80026A, and dated September 2000. The map shall be 
on file in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (b) Boundary Adjustments.--The Secretary may make minor adjustments 
in the boundaries of the battlefield park consistent with section 7(c) 
of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-
9(c)).

SEC. 504. LAND ACQUISITION. <<NOTE: 16 USC 423l-4.>> 

    (a) Acquisition Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire lands, waters, 
        and interests in lands within the boundaries of the battlefield 
        park from willing landowners by donation, purchase with donated 
        or appropriated funds, or exchange. In acquiring lands and 
        interests in lands under this title, the Secretary shall acquire 
        the minimum interest necessary to achieve the purposes for which 
        the battlefield is established.
            (2) Special rule for private lands.--Privately owned lands 
        or interests in lands may be acquired under this title only with 
        the consent of the owner.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2375]]

    (b) Easements.--
            (1) Outside boundaries.--The Secretary may acquire an 
        easement on property outside the boundaries of the battlefield 
        park and around the City of Richmond, with the consent of the 
        owner, if the Secretary determines that the easement is 
        necessary to protect core Civil War resources as identified by 
        the Civil War Sites Advisory Committee. Upon acquisition of the 
        easement, the Secretary shall revise the boundaries of the 
        battlefield park to include the property subject to the 
        easement.
            (2) Inside boundaries.--To the extent practicable, and if 
        preferred by a willing landowner, the Secretary shall use 
        permanent conservation easements to acquire interests in land in 
        lieu of acquiring land in fee simple and thereby removing land 
        from non-Federal ownership.

    (c) Visitor Center.--The Secretary may acquire the Tredegar Iron 
Works buildings and associated land in the City of Richmond for use as a 
visitor center for the battlefield park.

SEC. 505. PARK ADMINISTRATION. <<NOTE: 16 USC 423l-5.>> 

    (a) Applicable Laws.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the National Park Service, shall administer the battlefield park in 
accordance with this title and laws generally applicable to units of the 
National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 
et seq.) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
    (b) New Market Heights Battlefield.--The Secretary shall provide for 
the establishment of a monument or memorial suitable to honor the 14 
Medal of Honor recipients from the United States Colored Troops who 
fought in the Battle of New Market Heights. The Secretary shall include 
the Battle of New Market Heights and the role of black Union soldiers in 
the battle in historical interpretations provided to the public at the 
battlefield park.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with the Commonwealth of Virginia, its political 
subdivisions (including the City of Richmond), private property owners, 
and other members of the private sector to develop mechanisms to protect 
and interpret the historical resources within the battlefield park in a 
manner that would allow for continued private ownership and use where 
compatible with the purposes for which the battlefield is established.
    (d) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary may provide technical 
assistance to the Commonwealth of Virginia, its political subdivisions, 
nonprofit entities, and private property owners for the development of 
comprehensive plans, land use guidelines, special studies, and other 
activities that are consistent with the identification, protection, 
interpretation, and commemoration of historically significant Civil War 
resources located inside and outside of the boundaries of the 
battlefield park. The technical assistance does not authorize the 
Secretary to own or manage any of the resources outside the battlefield 
park boundaries.

SEC. 506. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 423l-6.>> 

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2376]]

SEC. 507. REPEAL OF SUPERSEDED LAW.

    The Act of March 2, 1936 (chapter 113; 16 U.S.C. 423j-423l) is 
repealed.

   TITLE VI--SOUTHEASTERN ALASKA INTERTIE SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION; NAVAJO 
                  ELECTRIFICATION DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

SEC. 601. SOUTHEASTERN ALASKA INTERTIE AUTHORIZATION 
            LIMIT. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> 

    Upon the completion and submission to the United States Congress by 
the Forest Service of the ongoing High Voltage Direct Current viability 
analysis pursuant to United States Forest Service Collection Agreement 
#00CO-111005-105 or no later than February 1, 2001, there is hereby 
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy such sums as 
may be necessary to assist in the construction of the Southeastern 
Alaska Intertie system as generally identified in Report #97-01 of the 
Southeast Conference. Such sums shall equal 80 percent of the cost of 
the system and may not exceed $384,000,000. Nothing in this title shall 
be construed to limit or waive any otherwise applicable State or Federal 
law.

SEC. 602. NAVAJO ELECTRIFICATION DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish a 5-year 
program to assist the Navajo Nation to meet its electricity needs. The 
purpose of the program shall be to provide electric power to the 
estimated 18,000 occupied structures on the Navajo Nation that lack 
electric power. The goal of the program shall be to ensure that every 
household on the Navajo Nation that requests it has access to a reliable 
and affordable source of electricity by the year 2006.
    (b) Scope.--In order to meet the goal in subsection (a), the 
Secretary of Energy shall provide grants to the Navajo Nation to--
            (1) extend electric transmission and distribution lines to 
        new or existing structures that are not served by electric power 
        and do not have adequate electric power service;
            (2) purchase and install distributed power generating 
        facilities, including small gas turbines, fuel cells, solar 
        photovoltaic systems, solar thermal systems, geothermal systems, 
        wind power systems, or biomass-fueled systems;
            (3) purchase and install other equipment associated with the 
        generation, transmission, distribution, and storage of electric 
        power;
            (4) provide training in the installation, operation, or 
        maintenance of the lines, facilities, or equipment in paragraphs 
        (1) through (3); or
            (5) support other activities that the Secretary of Energy 
        determines are necessary to meet the goal of the program.

    (c) Technical Support.--At the request of the Navajo Nation, the 
Secretary of Energy may provide technical support through Department of 
Energy laboratories and facilities to the Navajo Nation to assist in 
achieving the goal of this program.

[[Page 114 STAT. 2377]]

    (d) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Annual Reports.--Not later than February 1, 
2002 and for each of the five succeeding years, the Secretary of Energy 
shall submit a report to Congress on the status of the programs and the 
progress towards meeting its goal under subsection (a).

    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Energy to carry out this section 
$15,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2002 through 2006.

    Approved November 13, 2000.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 964:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 106-944 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 106-217 (Comm. on Indian Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 145 (1999):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 146 (2000):
                                    Oct. 18, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    Oct. 24, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>