[105th Congress Public Law 151]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ151.105]


[[Page 111 STAT. 2686]]

Public Law 105-151
105th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Granting the consent and approval of Congress for the State of Maryland, 
the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the District of Columbia to amend the 
 Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation Compact. <<NOTE: Dec. 
                      16, 1997 -  [H.J. Res. 96]>> 

Whereas the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the 
    District of Columbia have adopted amendments to the Washington 
    Metropolitan Area Transit Regulation Compact relating to public 
    hearing requirements and empowering transit police officers to carry 
    weapons issued by WMATA while in an off-duty status, consistent with 
    limitations imposed by the applicable political subdivision; and
Whereas the Congress has reviewed such amendments and is willing to 
    consent to such amendments: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That consent of Congress is 
hereby given to the amendments of the State of Maryland (Chapter 489, 
1996 Laws of the Maryland General Assembly and Chapters 91 and 699, 1997 
Laws of the Maryland General Assembly), the amendments of the 
Commonwealth of Virginia (Chapter 150, 1995 Acts of Assembly of 
Virginia), and the amendments of the District of Columbia (D.C. Law 11-
443) to sections 62 and 76 of title III of the Washington Metropolitan 
Area Transit Regulation Compact. Such amendments are as follows:
            (1) Section 62(a) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(a) The Board shall not raise any fare or rate, nor implement a 
major service reduction, except after holding a public hearing with 
respect thereto.''.
            (2) Section 62(c) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(c) The Board shall give at least fifteen days' notice for all 
public hearings. The notice shall be given by publication in a newspaper 
of daily circulation throughout the Transit Zone and such notice shall 
be published once a week for two successive weeks. The notice period 
shall start with the first day of publication. Notices of public 
hearings shall be posted in accordance with regulations promulgated by 
the Board.''.
            (3) Section 76(b) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(b) A member of the Metro Transit Police shall have the same 
powers, including the power of arrest, and shall be subject to the same 
limitations, including regulatory limitations, in the performance of his 
duties as a member of the duly constituted police force of the political 
subdivision in which the Metro Transit Police member is engaged in the 
performance of his duties. A member of the Metro Transit Police is 
authorized to carry and use only such weapons, including handguns, as 
are issued by the Authority. A member of the Metro Transit Police is 
subject to

[[Page 111 STAT. 2687]]

such additional limitations in the use of weapons as are imposed on the 
duly constituted police force for the political subdivision in which he 
is engaged in the performance of his duties.''.
            (4) Section 76(e) is amended to read as follows:

    ``(e) The Authority shall have the power to adopt rules and 
regulations for the safe, convenient, and orderly use of the transit 
facilities owned, controlled, or operated by the Authority, including 
the payment and the manner of the payment of fares or charges therefor, 
the protection of the transit facilities, the control of traffic and 
parking upon the transit facilities, and the safety and protection of 
the riding public. In the event that any such rules and regulations 
contravene the laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations of a signatory or 
any political subdivision thereof which are existing or subsequently 
enacted, these laws, ordinances, rules, or regulations of the signatory 
or the political subdivision shall apply and the conflicting rule or 
regulation, or portion thereof, of the Authority shall be void within 
the jurisdiction of that signatory or political subdivision. In all 
other respects, the rules and regulations of the Authority shall be 
uniform throughout the Transit Zone. The rules or regulations 
established under this subsection shall be adopted by the Board 
following public hearings held in accordance with section 62(c) and (d) 
of this Compact. The final regulation shall be published in a newspaper 
of general circulation within the Zone at least 15 days before its 
effective date. Any person violating any rule or regulation of the 
Authority shall be subject to arrest and, upon conviction by a court of 
competent jurisdiction, shall pay a fine of not more than two hundred 
fifty dollars ($250) and costs. Criminal violations of any rule or 
regulation of the Authority shall be prosecuted by the signatory or 
political subdivision in which the violation occurred, in the same 
manner by which violations of law, ordinances, rules, and regulations of 
the signatory or political subdivisions are prosecuted.''.

    Approved December 16, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 96:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-396 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            Nov. 12, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>