[105th Congress Public Law 175]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ175.105]

Public Law 105-175
105th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
    Expressing the sense of the Congress on the occasion of the 50th 
     anniversary of the founding of the modern State of Israel and 
 reaffirming the bonds of friendship and cooperation between the United 
     States and Israel. <<NOTE:  May 11, 1998 -  [H.J. Res. 102]>> 

Whereas on November 29, 1947, the United Nations General Assembly voted 
    to partition the British Mandate of Palestine, and through that 
    vote, to create the State of Israel;

Whereas on May 14, 1948, the people of Israel proclaimed the 
    establishment of the sovereign and independent State of Israel and 
    the United States Government established full diplomatic relations 
    with Israel;

Whereas the desire of the Jewish people to establish an independent 
    modern State of Israel is the outgrowth of the existence of the 
    historic Kingdom of Israel established three thousand years ago in 
    the city of Jerusalem and in the land of Israel;

<<NOTE: Theodore Herzl.>> Whereas one century ago at the First Zionist 
    Congress on August 29 to 31, 1897, in Basel, Switzerland, 
    participants under the leadership of Theodore Herzl affirmed the 
    desire to reestablish a Jewish homeland in the historic land of 
    Israel;

Whereas the establishment of the modern State of Israel as a homeland 
    for the Jews followed the slaughter of more than six million 
    European Jews during the Holocaust;

Whereas since its establishment 50 years ago, the modern State of Israel 
    has rebuilt a nation, forged a new and dynamic society, and created 
    a unique and vital economic, political, cultural, and intellectual 
    life despite the heavy costs of six wars, terrorism, international 
    ostracism, and economic boycotts;

Whereas the people of Israel have established a vibrant and functioning 
    pluralistic democratic political system including freedom of speech, 
    a free press, free and fair and open elections, the rule of law, and 
    other democratic principles and practices;

Whereas, at great social and financial costs, Israel has absorbed 
    hundreds of thousands of Jews from countries throughout the World, 
    many of them refugees from Arab countries, and fully integrated them 
    into Israeli society;

Whereas for half a century the United States and Israel have maintained 
    a special relationship based on mutually shared democratic values, 
    common strategic interests, and moral bonds of friendship and mutual 
    respect; and

Whereas the American people have shared an affinity with the people of 
    Israel and regard Israel as a strong and trusted ally and an 
    important strategic partner: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the United States--
            (1) recognizes the historic significance of the 50th 
        anniversary of the reestablishment of the sovereign and 
        independent modern State of Israel;
            (2) commends the people of Israel for their remarkable 
        achievements in building a new state and a pluralistic 
        democratic society in the Middle East in the face of terrorism, 
        hostility and belligerence by many of her neighbors;
            (3) reaffirms the bonds of friendship and cooperation which 
        have existed between the United States and Israel for the past 
        half-century and which have been significant for both countries; 
        and
            (4) extends the warmest congratulations and best wishes to 
        the State of Israel and her people for a peaceful and prosperous 
        and successful future.

    Approved May 11, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 102:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Apr. 28, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 29, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>