[105th Congress Public Law 337]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ337.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3171]]

Public Law 105-337
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To allow Haskell Indian Nations University and the Southwestern Indian 
 Polytechnic Institute each to conduct a demonstration project to test 
 the feasibility and desirability of new personnel management policies 
 and procedures, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 31, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                4259]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Haskell Indian 
Nations University and Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute 
Administrative Systems Act of 1998. Kansas. New Mexico.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Haskell Indian Nations University and 
Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute Administrative Systems Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731.>> 

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) the provision of culturally sensitive curricula for 
        higher education programs at Haskell Indian Nations University 
        and the Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute is consistent 
        with the commitment of the Federal Government to the fulfillment 
        of treaty obligations to Indian tribes through the principle of 
        self-determination and the use of Federal resources; and
            (2) giving a greater degree of autonomy to those 
        institutions, while maintaining them as an integral part of the 
        Bureau of Indian Affairs, will facilitate--
                    (A) the transition of Haskell Indian Nations 
                University to a 4-year university; and
                    (B) the administration and improvement of the 
                academic program of the Southwestern Indian Polytechnic 
                Institute.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS; APPLICABILITY. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 note.>> 

    (a) Definitions.--For purposes of this Act:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) Employee.--The term ``employee'', with respect to an 
        institution named in subsection (b), means an individual 
        employed in or under such institution.
            (3) Eligible.--The term ``eligible'' means an individual who 
        has qualified for appointment in the institution involved and 
        whose name has been entered on the appropriate register or list 
        of eligibles.
            (4) Demonstration project.--The term ``demonstration 
        project'' means a project conducted by or under the supervision 
        of an institution named in subsection (b) to determine whether

[[Page 112 STAT. 3172]]

        specified changes in personnel management policies or procedures 
        would result in improved personnel management.

    (b) Applicability.--This Act applies to--
            (1) Haskell Indian Nations University, located in Lawrence, 
        Kansas; and
            (2) Southwestern Indian Polytechnic Institute, located in 
        Albuquerque, New Mexico.

SEC. 4. AUTHORITY. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 note.>> 

    (a) In General.--Each institution named in section 3(b) may conduct 
a demonstration project in accordance with the provisions of this Act. 
The conducting of any such demonstration project shall not be limited by 
any lack of specific authority under title 5, United States Code, to 
take the action contemplated, or by any provision of such title or any 
rule or regulation prescribed under such title which is inconsistent 
with the action, including any provision of law, rule, or regulation 
relating to--
            (1) the methods of establishing qualification requirements 
        for, recruitment for, and appointment to positions;
            (2) the methods of classifying positions and compensating 
        employees;
            (3) the methods of assigning, reassigning, or promoting 
        employees;
            (4) the methods of disciplining employees;
            (5) the methods of providing incentives to employees, 
        including the provision of group or individual incentive bonuses 
        or pay;
            (6) the hours of work per day or per week;
            (7) the methods of involving employees, labor organizations, 
        and employee organizations in personnel decisions; and
            (8) the methods of reducing overall staff and grade levels.

    (b) Consultation and Other Requirements.--Before commencing a 
demonstration project under this Act, the president of the institution 
involved shall--
            (1) in consultation with the board of regents of the 
        institution and such other persons or representative bodies as 
        the president considers appropriate, develop a plan for such 
        project which identifies--
                    (A) the purposes of the project;
                    (B) the types of employees or eligibles to be 
                included (categorized by occupational series, grade, or 
                organizational unit);
                    (C) the number of employees or eligibles to be 
                included (in the aggregate and by category);
                    (D) the methodology;
                    (E) the duration;
                    (F) the training to be provided;
                    (G) the anticipated costs;
                    (H) the methodology and criteria for evaluation, 
                consistent with subsection (f );
                    (I) a specific description of any aspect of the 
                project for which there is a lack of specific authority; 
                and
                    (J) a specific citation to any provision of law, 
                rule, or regulation which, if not waived, would prohibit 
                the conducting of the project, or any part of the 
                project as proposed;
            (2) publish the plan in the Federal 
        Register; <<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>> 

[[Page 112 STAT. 3173]]

            (3) submit the plan so published to public hearing;
            (4) <<NOTE: Notification.>> at least 180 days before the 
        date on which the proposed project is to commence, provide 
        notification of such project to--
                    (A) employees likely to be affected by the project; 
                and
                    (B) each House of Congress;
            (5) <<NOTE: Reports.>> at least 90 days before the date on 
        which the proposed project is to commence, provide each House of 
        Congress with a report setting forth the final version of the 
        plan; and
            (6) at least 60 days before the date on which the proposed 
        project is to commence, inform all employees as to the final 
        version of the plan, including all information relevant to the 
        making of an election under subsection (h)(2)(A).

    (c) Limitations.--No demonstration project under this Act may--
            (1) provide for a waiver of--
                    (A) any provision of law, rule, or regulation 
                providing for--
                          (i) equal employment opportunity;
                          (ii) Indian preference; or
                          (iii) veterans' preference;
                    (B) any provision of chapter 23 of title 5, United 
                States Code, or any other provision of such title 
                relating to merit system principles or prohibited 
                personnel practices, or any rule or regulation 
                prescribed under authority of any such provision; or
                    (C) any provision of subchapter II or III of chapter 
                73 of title 5, United States Code, or any rule or 
                regulation prescribed under authority of any such 
                provision;
            (2) impose any duty to engage in collective bargaining with 
        respect to--
                    (A) classification of positions; or
                    (B) pay, benefits, or any other form of 
                compensation; or
            (3) provide that any employee be required to pay dues or 
        fees of any kind to a labor organization as a condition of 
        employment.

    (d) Commencement and Termination Dates.--Each demonstration project 
under this Act--
            (1) shall commence within 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) shall terminate by the end of the 5-year period 
        beginning on the date on which such project commences, except 
        that the project may continue beyond the end of such 5-year 
        period--
                    (A) to the extent necessary to validate the results 
                of the project; and
                    (B) to the extent provided for under subsection 
                (h)(2)(B).

    (e) Discretionary Authority To Terminate.--A demonstration project 
under this Act may be terminated by the Secretary or the president of 
the institution involved if either determines that the project creates a 
substantial hardship on, or is not in the best interests of, the 
institution and its educational goals.
    (f ) Evaluation.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 3174]]

            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for an 
        evaluation of the results of each demonstration project under 
        this Act and its impact on improving public management.
            (2) Information.--Upon <<NOTE: Reports.>> request of the 
        Secretary, an institution named in section 3(b) shall cooperate 
        with and assist the Secretary, to the extent practicable, in any 
        evaluation undertaken under this subsection and provide the 
        Secretary with requested information and reports relating to the 
        conducting of its demonstration project.

    (g) Role of the Office of Personnel Management.--Upon request of the 
Secretary or the president of an institution named in section 3(b), the 
Office of Personnel Management shall furnish information or technical 
advice on the design, operation, or evaluation, or any other aspect of a 
demonstration project under this Act.
    (h) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, all applicants for employment with, all eligibles 
        and employees of, and all positions in or under an institution 
        named in section 3(b) shall be subject to inclusion in a 
        demonstration project under this Act.
            (2) Provisions relating to certain benefits.--
                    (A) Option for certain individuals to remain under 
                current law governing certain benefits.--
                          (i) Eligible individuals.--This subparagraph 
                      applies in the case of any individual who, as of 
                      the day before the date on which a demonstration 
                      project under this Act is to commence at an 
                      institution--
                                    (I) is an employee of such 
                                institution; and
                                    (II) if benefits under subchapter 
                                III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 
                                5, United States Code, are to be 
                                affected, has completed at least 1 year 
                                of Government service (whether with such 
                                institution or otherwise), but taking 
                                into account only civilian service 
                                creditable under subchapter III of 
                                chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title.
                          (ii) Option.--If a demonstration project is to 
                      include changes to any benefits under subpart G of 
                      part III of title 5, United States Code, an 
                      employee described in clause (i) shall be afforded 
                      an election not to become subject to such 
                      demonstration project, to the extent those 
                      benefits are involved (and to instead remain 
                      subject to the provisions of such subpart G as if 
                      this Act had not been enacted).
                    (B) Continuation of certain alternative benefit 
                systems after demonstration project terminates for 
                persons becoming subject thereto under the project.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the 
                termination of a demonstration project shall not, in the 
                case of any employee who becomes subject to a system of 
                alternative benefits under this Act (in lieu of
benefits that would otherwise be determined under subpart G of part III 
of title 5, United States Code), have the effect of terminating--
                          (i) any rights accrued by that individual 
                      under the system of alternative benefits involved; 
                      or

[[Page 112 STAT. 3175]]

                          (ii) the system under which those alternative 
                      benefits are afforded, to the extent continuation 
                      of such system beyond the termination date is 
                      provided for under the terms of the demonstration 
                      project (as in effect on the termination date).
            (3) Transition provisions.--
                    (A) Retention of annual and sick leave accrued 
                before becoming subject to demonstration project.--Any 
                individual becoming subject to a demonstration project 
                under this Act shall, in a manner consistent with the 
                requirements of section 6308 of title 5, United States 
                Code, be credited with any annual leave and any sick 
                leave standing to such individual's credit immediately 
                before becoming subject to the project.
                    (B) Provisions relating to credit for leave upon 
                separating while the demonstration project is still 
                ongoing.--Any demonstration project under this Act shall 
                include provisions consistent with the following:
                          (i) Lump-sum credit for annual leave.--In the 
                      case of any individual who, at the time of 
                      becoming subject to the demonstration project, has 
                      any leave for which a lump-sum payment might be 
                      paid under subchapter VI of chapter 55 of title 5, 
                      United States Code, such individual shall, if such 
                      individual separates from service (in the 
                      circumstances described in section 5551 or 5552 of 
                      such title 5, as applicable) while the 
                      demonstration project is still ongoing, be 
                      entitled to a lump-sum payment under such section 
                      5551 or 5552 (as applicable) based on the amount 
                      of leave standing to such individual's credit at 
                      the time such individual became subject to the 
                      demonstration project or the amount of leave 
                      standing to such individual's credit at the time 
                      of separation, whichever is less.
                          (ii) Retirement credit for sick leave.--In the 
                      case of any individual who, at the time of 
                      becoming subject to the demonstration project, has 
                      any sick leave which would be creditable under 
                      section 8339(m) of title 5, United States Code 
                      (had such individual then separated from service), 
                      any sick leave standing to such individual's 
                      credit at the time of separation shall, if 
                      separation occurs while the demonstration project 
                      is still ongoing, be so creditable, but only to 
                      the extent that it does not exceed the amount of 
                      creditable sick leave that stood to such 
                      individual's credit at the time such individual 
                      became subject to the demonstration project.
                    (C) Transfer of leave remaining upon transfer to 
                another agency.--In the case of any employee who becomes 
                subject to the demonstration project and is subsequently 
                transferred or otherwise appointed (without a break in 
                service of 3 days or longer) to another position in the 
                Federal Government or the government of the District of 
                Columbia under a different leave system (whether while 
                the project is still ongoing or otherwise), any leave 
                remaining to the credit of that individual which was 
                earned

[[Page 112 STAT. 3176]]

                or credited under the demonstration project shall be 
                transferred to such individual's credit in the new 
                employing agency on an adjusted basis under regulations 
                prescribed under section 6308 of title 5, United States 
                Code. Any such regulations shall be prescribed taking 
                into account the provisions of subparagraph (B).
                    (D) Collective-bargaining agreements.--Any 
                collective-bargaining agreement in effect on the day 
                before a demonstration project under this Act commences 
                shall continue to be recognized by the institution 
                involved until the earlier of--
                          (i) the date occurring 3 years after the 
                      commencement date of the project;
                          (ii) the date as of which the agreement is 
                      scheduled to expire (disregarding any option to 
                      renew); or
                          (iii) such date as may be determined by mutual 
                      agreement of the parties.

SEC. 5. DELEGATION OF PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 
            note.>> 

    The Secretary shall, to the maximum extent consistent with 
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations 
therefor, delegate to the presidents of the respective institutions 
named in section 3(b) procurement and contracting authority with respect 
to the conduct of the administrative functions of such institution.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 note.>> 

    There are authorized to be appropriated, for fiscal year 1999, and 
each fiscal year thereafter, to each of the respective institutions 
named in section 3(b)--
            (1) the amount of funds made available by appropriations as 
        operations funding for the administration of such institution 
        for fiscal year 1998; and
            (2) such additional sums as may be necessary for the 
        operation of such institution pursuant to this Act.

SEC. 7. REGULATIONS. <<NOTE: 25 USC 3731 note.>> 

    The president of each institution named in section 3(b) may, in 
consultation with the appropriate entities (referred to in section 
4(b)(1)), prescribe any regulations necessary to carry out this Act.

SEC. 8. LEGISLATION TO MAKE CHANGES PERMANENT. <<NOTE: Deadline. 25 USC 
            3731 note.>> 

    Not later than 6 months before the date on which a demonstration 
project under this Act is scheduled to expire, the institution 
conducting such demonstration project shall submit to each House of 
Congress--

[[Page 112 STAT. 3177]]

            (1) recommendations as to whether or not the changes under 
        such project should be continued or made permanent; and
            (2) proposed legislation for any changes in law necessary to 
        carry out any such recommendations.

    Approved October 31, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4259:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-700, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Government Reform and 
Oversight).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 6, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            Oct. 31, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>