[105th Congress Private Law 9]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl9.105]

Private Law 105-9
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   For the relief of Nuratu Olarewaju Abeke Kadiri. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 
                         1998 -  [H.R. 1949]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR NURATU OLAREWAJU ABEKE KADIRI.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Nuratu Olarewaju Abeke 
Kadiri shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa 
under section 204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful 
permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Nuratu Olarewaju Abeke Kadiri enters 
the United States before the filing deadline specified in subsection 
(c), she shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and 
shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under 
section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant 
visa or the application for adjustment of status is filed with 
appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Nuratu Olarewaju Abeke Kadiri, 
the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of the 
alien's birth under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas that are made 
available to natives of the country of the alien's birth under section 
202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Nuratu 
Olarewaju Abeke Kadiri shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be 
accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.

    Approved November 10, 1998.