[105th Congress Private Law 8]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl8.105]

Private Law 105-8
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
For the relief of Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz Martinez Cruz. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                       10, 1998 -  [H.R. 1834]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR MERCEDES DEL CARMEN QUIROZ 
            MARTINEZ CRUZ.

    (a) In General.--Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz Martinez Cruz shall be 
classified as an immediate relative within the meaning of section 
201(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Immigration and Nationality Act for purposes of 
approval of a relative visa petition filed under section 204 of such Act 
by Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz Martinez Cruz and the filing of an 
application for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz Martinez 
Cruz enters the United States before the filing deadline specified in 
subsection (c), she shall be considered to have entered and remained 
lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of 
status under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--
Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the 
application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for 
adjustment of status are filed by Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz Martinez 
Cruz with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Mercedes Del Carmen Quiroz 
Martinez Cruz, the Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer 
to reduce by 1, for the following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas available under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act.

    Approved November 10, 1998.