[105th Congress Public Law 170]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ170.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 47]]

Public Law 105-170
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to 
   reevaluate the equipment in medical kits carried on, and to make a 
  decision regarding requiring automatic external defibrillators to be 
      carried on, aircraft operated by air carriers, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 24, 1998 -  [H.R. 2843]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Aviation Medical 
Assistance Act of 1998.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44701 note.>> 

    This Act may be cited as the ``Aviation Medical Assistance Act of 
1998''.

SEC. 2. MEDICAL KIT EQUIPMENT AND TRAINING. <<NOTE: Regulations. 49 USC 
            44701 note.>> 

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall 
reevaluate regulations regarding: (1) the equipment required to be 
carried in medical kits of aircraft operated by air carriers; and (2) 
the training required of flight attendants in the use of such equipment, 
and, if the Administrator determines that such regulations should be 
modified as a result of such reevaluation, shall issue a notice of 
proposed rulemaking to modify such regulations.

SEC. 3. REPORTS REGARDING DEATHS ON AIRCRAFT. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44701 
            note.>> 

    (a) In General.--During the 1-year period beginning on the 90th day 
following the date of the enactment of this Act, a major air carrier 
shall make a good faith effort to obtain, and shall submit quarterly 
reports to the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration on, the following:
            (1) The number of persons who died on aircraft of the air 
        carrier, including any person who was declared dead after being 
        removed from such an aircraft as a result of a medical incident 
        that occurred on such aircraft.
            (2) The age of each such person.
            (3) Any information concerning cause of death that is 
        available at the time such person died on the aircraft or is 
        removed from the aircraft or that subsequently becomes known to 
        the air carrier.
            (4) Whether or not the aircraft was diverted as a result of 
        the death or incident.
            (5) Such other information as the Administrator may request 
        as necessary to aid in a decision as to whether or not to 
        require automatic external defibrillators in airports or on 
        aircraft operated by air carriers, or both.

[[Page 112 STAT. 48]]

    (b) Format.--The Administrator may specify a format for reports to 
be submitted under this section.

SEC. 4. DECISION ON AUTOMATIC EXTERNAL 
            DEFIBRILLATORS. <<NOTE: Regulations. 49 USC 44701 note.>> 

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the last day of the 
1-year period described in section 3, the Administrator of the Federal 
Aviation Administration shall make a decision on whether or not to 
require automatic external defibrillators on passenger aircraft operated 
by air carriers and whether or not to require automatic external 
defibrillators at airports.
    (b) Form of Decision.--A decision under this section shall be in the 
form of a notice of proposed rulemaking requiring automatic external 
defibrillators in airports or on passenger aircraft operated by air 
carriers, or both, or a recommendation to Congress for legislation 
requiring such defibrillators or a notice in the Federal Register that 
such defibrillators should not be required in airports or on such 
aircraft. If a decision under this section is in the form of a notice of 
proposed rulemaking, the Administrator shall make a final decision not 
later than the 120th day following the date on which comments are due on 
the notice of proposed rulemaking.
    (c) Contents.--If the Administrator decides that automatic external 
defibrillators should be required--
            (1) on passenger aircraft operated by air carriers, the 
        proposed rulemaking or recommendation shall include--
                    (A) the size of the aircraft on which such 
                defibrillators should be required;
                    (B) the class flights (whether interstate, overseas, 
                or foreign air transportation or any combination thereof 
                ) on which such defibrillators should be required;
                    (C) the training that should be required for air 
                carrier personnel in the use of such defibrillators; and
                    (D) the associated equipment and medication that 
                should be required to be carried in the aircraft medical 
                kit; and
            (2) at airports, the proposed rulemaking or recommendation 
        shall include--
                    (A) the size of the airport at which such 
                defibrillators should be required;
                    (B) the training that should be required for airport 
                personnel in the use of such defibrillators; and
                    (C) the associated equipment and medication that 
                should be required at the airport.

    (d) Limitation.--The Administrator may not require automatic 
external defibrillators on helicopters and on aircraft with a maximum 
payload capacity (as defined in section 119.3 of title 14, Code of 
Federal Regulations) of 7,500 pounds or less.
    (e) Special Rule.--If the Administrator decides that automatic 
external defibrillators should be required at airports, the proposed 
rulemaking or recommendation shall provide that the airports are 
responsible for providing the defibrillators.

SEC. 5. LIMITATIONS ON LIABILITY. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44701 note.>> 

    (a) Liability of Air Carriers.--An air carrier shall not be liable 
for damages in any action brought in a Federal or State court arising 
out of the performance of the air carrier in obtaining or attempting to 
obtain the assistance of a passenger in an in-flight medical emergency, 
or out of the acts or omissions of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 49]]

passenger rendering the assistance, if the passenger is not an employee 
or agent of the carrier and the carrier in good faith believes that the 
passenger is a medically qualified individual.
    (b) Liability of Individuals.--An individual shall not be liable for 
damages in any action brought in a Federal or State court arising out of 
the acts or omissions of the individual in providing or attempting to 
provide assistance in the case of an in-flight medical emergency unless 
the individual, while rendering such assistance, is guilty of gross 
negligence or willful misconduct.

SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS. <<NOTE: 49 USC 44701 note.>> 

    In this Act--
            (1) the terms ``air carrier'', ``aircraft'', ``airport'', 
        ``interstate air transportation'', ``overseas air 
        transportation'', and ``foreign air transportation'' have the 
        meanings such terms have under section 40102 of title 49, United 
        States Code;
            (2) the term ``major air carrier'' means an air carrier 
        certificated under section 41102 of title 49, United States 
        Code, that accounted for at least 1 percent of domestic 
        scheduled-passenger revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 of 
        the most recent year preceding the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, as reported to the Department of Transportation pursuant to 
        part 241 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations; and
            (3) the term ``medically qualified individual'' includes any 
        person who is licensed, certified, or otherwise qualified to 
        provide medical care in a State, including a physician, nurse, 
        physician assistant, paramedic, and emergency medical 
        technician.

    Approved April 24, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2843:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-456 (Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Mar. 24, considered and passed House.
            Apr. 3, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>