[105th Congress Public Law 355]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ355.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3247]]

Public Law 105-355
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the Automobile National Heritage Area in the State of 
Michigan, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 1998 -  [H.R. 3910]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

 TITLE I--AUTOMOBILE <<NOTE: Automobile National Heritage Area Act. 16 
USC 461 note [table].>>  NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA OF MICHIGAN

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Automobile National Heritage Area 
Act''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the industrial, cultural, and natural heritage legacies 
        of Michigan's automobile industry are nationally significant;
            (2) in the areas of Michigan including and in proximity to 
        Detroit, Dearborn, Pontiac, Flint, and Lansing, the design and 
        manufacture of the automobile helped establish and expand the 
        United States industrial power;
            (3) the industrial strength of automobile manufacturing was 
        vital to defending freedom and democracy in 2 world wars and 
        played a defining role in American victories;
            (4) the economic strength of our Nation is connected 
        integrally to the vitality of the automobile industry, which 
        employs millions of workers and upon which 1 out of 7 United 
        States jobs depends;
            (5) the industrial and cultural heritage of the automobile 
        industry in Michigan includes the social history and living 
        cultural traditions of several generations;
            (6) the United Auto Workers and other unions played a 
        significant role in the history and progress of the labor 
        movement and the automobile industry;
            (7) the Department of the Interior is responsible for 
        protecting and interpreting the Nation's cultural and historic 
        resources, and there are significant examples of these resources 
        within Michigan to merit the involvement of the Federal 
        Government to develop programs and projects in cooperation with 
        the Automobile National Heritage Area Partnership, Incorporated, 
        the State of Michigan, and other local and governmental bodies, 
        to adequately conserve, protect, and interpret

[[Page 112 STAT. 3248]]

        this heritage for the educational and recreational benefit of 
        this and future generations of Americans;
            (8) the Automobile National Heritage Area Partnership, 
        Incorporated would be an appropriate entity to oversee the 
        development of the Automobile National Heritage Area; and
            (9) 2 local studies, ``A Shared Vision for Metropolitan 
        Detroit'' and ``The Machine That Changed the World'', and a 
        National Park Service study, ``Labor History Theme Study: Phase 
        III; Suitability-Feasibility'', demonstrated that sufficient 
        historical resources exist to establish the Automobile National 
        Heritage Area.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to establish the 
Automobile National Heritage Area to--
            (1) foster a close working relationship with all levels of 
        government, the private sector, and the local communities in 
        Michigan and empower communities in Michigan to conserve their 
        automotive heritage while strengthening future economic 
        opportunities; and
            (2) conserve, interpret, and develop the historical, 
        cultural, natural, and recreational resources related to the 
        industrial and cultural heritage of the Automobile National 
        Heritage Area.

SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title:
            (1) Board.--The term ``Board'' means the Board of Directors 
        of the Partnership.
            (2) Heritage area.--The term ``Heritage Area'' means the 
        Automobile National Heritage Area established by section 104.
            (3) Partnership.--The term ``Partnership'' means the 
        Automobile National Heritage Area Partnership, Incorporated (a 
        nonprofit corporation established under the laws of the State of 
        Michigan).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 104. AUTOMOBILE NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State of Michigan 
the Automobile National Heritage Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the boundaries of 
        the Heritage Area shall include lands in Michigan that are 
        related to the following corridors:
                    (A) The Rouge River Corridor.
                    (B) The Detroit River Corridor.
                    (C) The Woodward Avenue Corridor.
                    (D) The Lansing Corridor.
                    (E) The Flint Corridor.
                    (F) The Sauk Trail/Chicago Road Corridor.
            (2) Specific boundaries.--The specific boundaries of the 
        Heritage Area shall be those specified in the management plan 
        approved under section 106.
            (3) Map.--The Secretary shall prepare a map of the Heritage 
        Area which shall be on file and available for public inspection 
        in the office of the Director of the National Park Service.
            (4) Notice to local governments.--The Partnership shall 
        provide to the government of each city, village, and township 
        that has jurisdiction over property proposed to be included in 
        the Heritage Area written notice of that proposal.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3249]]

    (c) Administration.--The Heritage Area shall be administered in 
accordance with this title.

SEC. 105. DESIGNATION OF PARTNERSHIP AS MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) In General.--The Partnership shall be the management entity for 
the Heritage Area.
    (b) Federal Funding.--
            (1) Authorization to receive funds.--The Partnership may 
        receive amounts appropriated to carry out this title.
            (2) Disqualification.--If a management plan for the Heritage 
        Area is not submitted to the Secretary as required under section 
        106 within the time specified in that section, the Partnership 
        shall cease to be authorized to receive Federal funding under 
        this title until such a plan is submitted to the Secretary.

    (c) Authorities of Partnership.--The Partnership may, for purposes 
of preparing and implementing the management plan for the Heritage Area, 
use Federal funds made available under this title--
            (1) to make grants to the State of Michigan, its political 
        subdivisions, nonprofit organizations, and other persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
        technical assistance to the State of Michigan, its political 
        subdivisions, nonprofit organizations, and other organizations;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain money from any source under any program or law 
        requiring the recipient of such money to make a contribution in 
        order to receive such money; and
            (5) to contract for goods and services.

    (d) Prohibition of Acquisition of Real Property.--The Partnership 
may not use Federal funds received under this title to acquire real 
property or any interest in real property.

SEC. 106. MANAGEMENT DUTIES OF THE AUTOMOBILE NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA 
            PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Heritage Area Management Plan.--
            (1) Submission for review by secretary.--The Board of 
        Directors of the Partnership shall, within 3 years after the 
        date of the enactment of this title, develop and submit for 
        review to the Secretary a management plan for the Heritage Area.
            (2) Plan requirements, generally.--A management plan 
        submitted under this section shall--
                    (A) present comprehensive recommendations for the 
                conservation, funding, management, and development of 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (B) be prepared with public participation;
                    (C) take into consideration existing Federal, State, 
                county, and local plans and involve residents, public 
                agencies, and private organizations in the Heritage 
                Area;
                    (D) include a description of actions that units of 
                government and private organizations are recommended to 
                take to protect the resources of the Heritage Area; and
                    (E) specify existing and potential sources of 
                Federal and non-Federal funding for the conservation, 
                management, and development of the Heritage Area.
            (3) Additional plan requirements.--The management plan also 
        shall include the following, as appropriate:

[[Page 112 STAT. 3250]]

                    (A) An <<NOTE: Records.>>  inventory of resources 
                contained in the Heritage Area, including a list of 
                property in the Heritage Area that should be conserved, 
                restored, managed, developed, or maintained because of 
                the natural, cultural, or historic significance of the 
                property as it relates to the themes of the Heritage 
                Area. The inventory may not include any property that is 
                privately owned unless the owner of the property 
                consents in writing to that inclusion.
                    (B) A recommendation of policies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including (but not limited to) the development of 
                intergovernmental cooperative agreements to manage the 
                historical, cultural, and natural resources and 
                recreational opportunities of the Heritage Area in a 
                manner consistent with the support of appropriate and 
                compatible economic viability.
                    (C) A program for implementation of the management 
                plan, including plans for restoration and construction 
                and a description of any commitments that have been made 
                by persons interested in management of the Heritage 
                Area.
                    (D) An analysis of means by which Federal, State, 
                and local programs may best be coordinated to promote 
                the purposes of this title.
                    (E) An interpretive plan for the Heritage Area.
            (4) Approval <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  and disapproval of the 
        management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after 
                submission of the Heritage Area management plan by the 
                Board, the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
                plan. If the Secretary has taken no action after 180 
                days, the plan shall be considered approved.
                    (B) Disapproval and revisions.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the management plan, the Secretary shall 
                advise the Board, in writing, of the reasons for the 
                disapproval and shall make recommendations for revision 
                of the plan. The Secretary shall approve or disapprove 
                proposed revisions to the plan not later than 60 days 
                after receipt of such revisions from the Board. If the 
                Secretary has taken no action for 60 days after receipt, 
                the plan and revisions shall be considered approved.

    (b) Priorities.--The Partnership shall give priority to the 
implementation of actions, goals, and policies set forth in the 
management plan for the Heritage Area, including--
            (1) assisting units of government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations--
                    (A) in conserving the natural and cultural resources 
                in the Heritage Area;
                    (B) in establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Heritage Area;
                    (C) in developing recreational opportunities in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (D) in increasing public awareness of and 
                appreciation for the natural, historical, and cultural 
                resources of the Heritage Area;
                    (E) in the restoration of historic buildings that 
                are located within the boundaries of the Heritage Area 
                and related to the theme of the Heritage Area; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 3251]]

                    (F) in ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                environmentally appropriate signs identifying access 
                points and sites of interest are put in place throughout 
                the Heritage Area; and
            (2) consistent with the goals of the management plan, 
        encouraging economic viability in the affected communities by 
        appropriate means.

    (c) Consideration of Interests of Local Groups.--The Partnership 
shall, in preparing and implementing the management plan for the 
Heritage Area, consider the interest of diverse units of government, 
businesses, private property owners, and nonprofit groups within the 
Heritage Area.
    (d) Public Meetings.--The Partnership shall conduct public meetings 
at least annually regarding the implementation of the Heritage Area 
management plan.
    (e) Annual Reports.--The Partnership shall, for any fiscal year in 
which it receives Federal funds under this title or in which a loan made 
by the Partnership with Federal funds under section 105(c)(1) is 
outstanding, submit an annual report to the Secretary setting forth its 
accomplishments, its expenses and income, and the entities to which it 
made any loans and grants during the year for which the report is made.

    (f) Cooperation With Audits.--The Partnership shall, for any fiscal 
year in which it receives Federal funds under this title or in which a 
loan made by the Partnership with Federal funds under section 105(c)(1) 
is outstanding, make available for audit by the Congress, the Secretary, 
and appropriate units of government all records and other information 
pertaining to the expenditure of such funds and any matching funds, and 
require, for all agreements authorizing expenditure of Federal funds by 
other organizations, that the receiving organizations make available for 
such audit all records and other information pertaining to the 
expenditure of such funds.
    (g) Delegation.--The Partnership may delegate the responsibilities 
and actions under this section for each corridor identified in section 
104(b)(1). All delegated actions are subject to review and approval by 
the Partnership.

SEC. 107. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical Assistance and Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may provide technical 
        assistance and, subject to the availability of appropriations, 
        grants to units of government, nonprofit organizations, and 
        other persons upon request of the Partnership, and to the 
        Partnership, regarding the management plan and its 
        implementation.
            (2) Prohibition of certain requirements.--The Secretary may 
        not, as a condition of the award of technical assistance or 
        grants under this section, require any recipient of such 
        technical assistance or a grant to enact or modify land use 
        restrictions.
            (3) Determinations regarding assistance.--The Secretary 
        shall decide if a unit of government, nonprofit organization, or 
        other person shall be awarded technical assistance or grants and 
        the amount of that assistance. Such decisions shall be based on 
        the relative degree to which the assistance effectively fulfills 
        the objectives contained in the Heritage Area

[[Page 112 STAT. 3252]]

        management plan and achieves the purposes of this title. Such 
        decisions shall give consideration to projects which provide a 
        greater leverage of Federal funds.

    (b) Provision of Information.--In cooperation with other Federal 
agencies, the Secretary shall provide the general public with 
information regarding the location and character of the Heritage Area.
    (c) Other Assistance.--The Secretary may enter into cooperative 
agreements with public and private organizations for the purposes of 
implementing this subsection.
    (d) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal entity conducting 
any activity directly affecting the Heritage Area shall consider the 
potential effect of the activity on the Heritage Area management plan 
and shall consult with the Partnership with respect to the activity to 
minimize the adverse effects of the activity on the Heritage Area.

SEC. 108. LACK OF EFFECT ON LAND USE REGULATION AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Lack of Effect on Authority of Local Government.--Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to modify, enlarge, or diminish any 
authority of Federal, State, or local governments to regulate any use of 
land under any other law or regulation.
    (b) Lack of Zoning or Land Use Powers.--Nothing in this title shall 
be construed to grant powers of zoning or land use control to the 
Partnership.
    (c) Local Authority and Private Property Not Affected.--Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to affect or to authorize the Partnership 
to interfere with--
            (1) the rights of any person with respect to private 
        property; or
            (2) any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the State 
        of Michigan or a political subdivision thereof.

SEC. 109. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2014.

SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Heritage Area under 
this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of the Heritage Area, may not exceed 50 percent of 
the total cost of any activity carried out with any financial assistance 
or grant provided under this title.

          TITLE II--GRAND STAIRCASE-ESCALANTE NATIONAL MONUMENT

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note [table].>>  BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND 
            CONVEYANCES, GRAND STAIRCASE-ESCALANTE NATIONAL MONUMENT, 
            UTAH.

    (a) Exclusion of Certain Lands.--The boundaries of the Grand 
Staircase-Escalante National Monument in the State of Utah are hereby 
modified to exclude the following lands:

[[Page 112 STAT. 3253]]

            (1) The parcel known as Henrieville Town, Utah, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Henrieville Town Exclusion, 
        Garfield County, Utah'', dated March 25, 1998.
            (2) The parcel known as Cannonville Town, Utah, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Cannonville Town Exclusion, 
        Garfield County, Utah'', dated March 25, 1998.
            (3) The parcel known as Tropic Town, Utah, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Tropic Town Parcel'', dated July 
        21, 1998.
            (4) The parcel known as Boulder Town, Utah, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Boulder Town Exclusion, Garfield 
        County, Utah'', dated March 25, 1998.

    (b) Inclusion of Certain Additional Lands.--The boundaries of the 
Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument are hereby modified to 
include the parcel known as East Clark Bench, as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``East Clark Bench Inclusion, Kane County, Utah'', 
dated March 25, 1998.
    (c) Maps.--The maps referred to in subsections (a) and (b) shall be 
on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Grand 
Staircase-Escalante National Monument in the State of Utah and in the 
office of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Land Conveyance, Tropic Town, Utah.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall convey to Garfield County School District, Utah, all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the lands 
shown on the map entitled ``Tropic Town Parcel'' and dated July 21, 
1998, in accordance with section 1 of the Act of June 14, 1926 (43 
U.S.C. 869; commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act), 
for use as the location for a school and for other education purposes.
    (e) Land Conveyance, Kodachrome Basin State Park, Utah.--The 
Secretary shall transfer to the State of Utah all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the lands shown on the map 
entitled ``Kodachrome Basin Conveyance No. 1 and No. 2'' and dated July 
21, 1998, in accordance with section 1 of the Act of June 14, 1926 (43 
U.S.C. 869; commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act), 
for inclusion of the lands in Kodachrome Basin State Park.

SEC. 202. UTILITY CORRIDOR DESIGNATION, U.S. ROUTE 89, KANE COUNTY, 
            UTAH.

    There is hereby designated a utility corridor with regard to U.S. 
Route 89, in Kane County, Utah. The utility corridor shall run from the 
boundary of Glen Canyon Recreation Area westerly to Mount Carmel Jct. 
and shall consist of the following:
            (1) Bureau of Land Management lands located on the north 
        side of U.S. Route 89 within 240 feet of the center line of the 
        highway.
            (2) Bureau of Land Management lands located on the south 
        side of U.S. Route 89 within 500 feet of the center line of the 
        highway.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3254]]

TITLE III--TUSKEGEE <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note [table].>>  AIRMEN NATIONAL 
HISTORIC SITE, ALABAMA

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``historic site'' means the 
        Tuskegee Airmen National Historic Site as established by section 
        303.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Tuskegee airmen.--The term ``Tuskegee Airmen'' means the 
        thousands of men and women who were trained at Tuskegee 
        University's Moton Field to serve in America's African-American 
        Air Force units during World War II and those men and women who 
        participate in the Tuskegee Experience today, who are 
        represented by Tuskegee Airmen, Inc.
            (4) Tuskegee university.--The term ``Tuskegee University'' 
        means the institution of higher education by that name located 
        in the State of Alabama and founded by Booker T. Washington in 
        1881, formerly named Tuskegee Institute.

SEC. 302. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The struggle of African-Americans for greater roles in 
        North American military conflicts spans the 17th, 18th, 19th, 
        and 20th centuries. Opportunities for African-American 
        participation in the United States military were always very 
        limited and controversial. Quotas, exclusion, and racial 
        discrimination were based on the prevailing attitude in the 
        United States, particularly on the part of the United States 
        military, that African-Americans did not possess the 
        intellectual capacity, aptitude, and skills to be successful 
        fighters.
            (2) As late as the 1940's these perceptions continued within 
        the United States military. Key leaders within the United States 
        Army Air Corps did not believe that African-Americans possessed 
        the capacity to become successful military pilots. After 
        succumbing to pressure exerted by civil rights groups and the 
        black press, the Army decided to train a small number of 
        African-American pilot cadets under special conditions. Although 
        prejudice and discrimination against African-Americans was a 
        national phenomenon, not just a southern trait, it was more 
        intense in the South where it had hardened into rigidly enforced 
        patterns of segregation. Such was the environment where the 
        military chose to locate the training of the Tuskegee Airmen.
            (3) The military selected Tuskegee Institute (now known as 
        Tuskegee University) as a civilian contractor for a variety of 
        reasons. These included the school's existing facilities, 
        engineering and technical instructors, and a climate with ideal 
        flying conditions year round. Tuskegee Institute's strong 
        interest in providing aeronautical training for African-American 
        youths was also an important factor. Students from the school's 
        civilian pilot training program had some of the best test scores 
        when compared to other students from programs across the 
        Southeast.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3255]]

            (4) In 1941 the United States Army Air Corps awarded a 
        contract to Tuskegee Institute to operate a primary flight 
        school at Moton Field. Tuskegee Institute (now known as Tuskegee 
        University) chose an African-American contractor who designed 
        and constructed Moton Field, with the assistance of its faculty 
        and students, as the site for its military pilot training 
        program. <<NOTE: Robert Russa Moton.>>  The field was named for 
        the school's second president, Robert Russa Moton. Consequently, 
        Tuskegee Institute was one of a very few American institutions 
        (and the only African-American institution) to own, develop, and 
        control facilities for military flight instruction.
            (5) Moton Field, also known as the Primary Flying Field or 
        Airport Number 2, was the only primary flight training facility 
        for African-American pilot candidates in the United States Army 
        Air Corps during World War II. The facility symbolizes the 
        entrance of African-American pilots into the United States Army 
        Air Corps, although on the basis of a policy of segregation that 
        was mandated by the military and institutionalized in the South. 
        The facility also symbolizes the singular role of Tuskegee 
        Institute (Tuskegee University) in providing leadership as well 
        as economic and educational resources to make that entry 
        possible.
            (6) The Tuskegee Airmen were the first African-American 
        soldiers to complete their training successfully and to enter 
        the United States Army Air Corps. Almost 1,000 aviators were 
        trained as America's first African-American military pilots. In 
        addition, more than 10,000 military and civilian African-
        American men and women served as flight instructors, officers, 
        bombardiers, navigators, radio technicians, mechanics, air 
        traffic controllers, parachute riggers, electrical and 
        communications specialists, medical professionals, laboratory 
        assistants, cooks, musicians, supply, firefighting, and 
        transportation personnel.
            (7) Although military leaders were hesitant to use the 
        Tuskegee Airmen in combat, the Airmen eventually saw 
        considerable action in North Africa and Europe. Acceptance from 
        United States Army Air Corps units came slowly, but their 
        courageous and, in many cases, heroic performance earned them 
        increased combat opportunities and respect.
            (8) <<NOTE: Harry S. Truman.>> The successes of the Tuskegee 
        Airmen proved to the American public that African-Americans, 
        when given the opportunity, could become effective military 
        leaders and pilots. This helped pave the way for desegregation 
        of the military, beginning with President Harry S. Truman's 
        Executive Order 9981 in 1948. The Tuskegee Airmen's success also 
        helped set the stage for civil rights advocates to continue the 
        struggle to end racial discrimination during the civil rights 
        movement of the 1950's and 1960's.
            (9) The story of the Tuskegee Airmen also reflects the 
        struggle of African-Americans to achieve equal rights, not only 
        through legal attacks on the system of segregation, but also 
        through the techniques of nonviolent direct action. The members 
        of the 477th Bombardment Group, who staged a nonviolent 
        demonstration to desegregate the officer's club at Freeman 
        Field, Indiana, helped set the pattern for direct action 
        protests popularized by civil rights activists in later decades.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are the following:

[[Page 112 STAT. 3256]]

            (1) To inspire present and future generations to strive for 
        excellence by understanding and appreciating the heroic legacy 
        of the Tuskegee Airmen, through interpretation and education, 
        and the preservation of cultural resources at Moton Field, which 
        was the site of primary flight training.
            (2) To commemorate and interpret--
                    (A) the impact of the Tuskegee Airmen during World 
                War II;
                    (B) the training process for the Tuskegee Airmen, 
                including the roles played by Moton Field, other 
                training facilities, and related sites;
                    (C) the African-American struggle for greater 
                participation in the United States Armed Forces and more 
                significant roles in defending their country;
                    (D) the significance of successes of the Tuskegee 
                Airmen in leading to desegregation of the United States 
                Armed Forces shortly after World War II; and
                    (E) the impacts of Tuskegee Airmen accomplishments 
                on subsequent civil rights advances of the 1950's and 
                1960's.
            (3) To recognize the strategic role of Tuskegee Institute 
        (now Tuskegee University) in training the airmen and 
        commemorating them at this historic site.

SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF TUSKEGEE AIRMEN NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--In order to commemorate and interpret, in 
association with Tuskegee University, the heroic actions of the Tuskegee 
Airmen during World War II, there is hereby established as a unit of the 
National Park System the Tuskegee Airmen National Historic Site in the 
State of Alabama.
    (b) Description of Historic Site.--
            (1) Initial parcel.--The historic site shall consist of 
        approximately 44 acres, including approximately 35 acres owned 
        by Tuskegee University and approximately 9 acres owned by the 
        City of Tuskegee, known as Moton Field, in Macon County, 
        Alabama, as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Tuskegee 
        Airmen National Historic Site Boundary Map'', numbered NHS-TA-
        80,000, and dated September 1998. Such map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the National Park Service.
            (2) Subsequent expansion.--Upon completion of agreements 
        regarding the development and operation of the Tuskegee Airmen 
        National Center as described in subsection 304, the Secretary is 
        authorized to acquire approximately 46 additional acres owned by 
        Tuskegee University as generally depicted on the map referenced 
        in paragraph (1). Lands acquired by the Secretary pursuant to 
        this paragraph shall be administered by the Secretary as part of 
        the historic site.

    (c) Property Acquisition.--The Secretary may acquire by donation, 
exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds the real 
property described in subsection (b), except that any property owned by 
the State of Alabama, any political subdivision thereof, or Tuskegee 
University may be acquired only by donation. Property donated by 
Tuskegee University shall be used only for purposes consistent with the 
purposes of this title. The Secretary

[[Page 112 STAT. 3257]]

may also acquire by the same methods personal property associated with, 
and appropriate for, the interpretation of the historic site.
    (d) Administration of Historic Site.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the historic 
        site in accordance with this title and the laws generally 
        applicable to units of the National Park System, including the 
        Act of August 25, 1916 (commonly known as the National Park 
        Service Organic Act; 16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act of August 
        21, 1935 (commonly known as the Historic Sites, Buildings, and 
        Antiquities Act; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
            (2) Role of tuskegee university.--The Secretary shall 
        consult with Tuskegee University as its principal partner in 
        determining the organizational structure, developing the ongoing 
        interpretive themes, and establishing policies for the wise 
        management, use and development of the historic site. With the 
        agreement of Tuskegee University, the Secretary shall engage 
        appropriate departments, and individual members of the 
        University's staff, faculty, and students in the continuing work 
        of helping to identify, research, explicate, interpret, and 
        format materials for the historic site. Through the President of 
        the University, or with the approval of the President of the 
        University, the Secretary shall seek to engage Tuskegee alumni 
        in the task of providing artifacts and historical information 
        for the historic site.
            (3) Role of tuskegee airmen.--The Secretary, in cooperation 
        with Tuskegee University, shall work with the Tuskegee Airmen to 
        facilitate the acquisition of artifacts, memorabilia, and 
        historical research for interpretive exhibits, and to support 
        their efforts to raise funds for the development of visitor 
        facilities and programs at the historic site.
            (4) Development.--Operation and development of the historic 
        site shall reflect Alternative C, Living History: The Tuskegee 
        Airmen Experience, as expressed in the final special resource 
        study entitled ``Moton Field/Tuskegee Airmen Special Resource 
        Study'', dated September 1998. Subsequent development of the 
        historic site shall reflect Alternative D after an agreement is 
        reached with Tuskegee University on the development of the 
        Tuskegee Airmen National Center as described in section 304.

    (e) Cooperative Agreements Generally.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with Tuskegee University, other educational 
institutions, the Tuskegee Airmen, individuals, private and public 
organizations, and other Federal agencies in furtherance of the purposes 
of this title. The Secretary shall consult with Tuskegee University in 
the formulation of any major cooperative agreements with other 
universities or Federal agencies that may affect Tuskegee University's 
interests in the historic site. To every extent possible, the Secretary 
shall seek to complete cooperative agreements requiring the use of 
higher educational institutions with and through Tuskegee University.

SEC. 304. TUSKEGEE AIRMEN NATIONAL CENTER.

    (a) Cooperative Agreement for Development.--The Secretary shall 
enter into a cooperative agreement with Tuskegee University to define 
the partnership needed to develop the Tuskegee Airmen National Center on 
the grounds of the historic site.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3258]]

    (b) Purpose of Center.--The purpose of the Tuskegee Airmen National 
Center shall be to extend the ability to relate more fully the story of 
the Tuskegee Airmen at Moton Field. The center shall provide for a 
Tuskegee Airmen Memorial, shall provide large exhibit space for the 
display of period aircraft and equipment used by the Tuskegee Airmen, 
and shall house a Tuskegee University Department of Aviation Science. 
The Secretary shall insure that interpretive programs for visitors 
benefit from the University's active pilot training instruction program, 
and the historical continuum of flight training in the tradition of the 
Tuskegee Airmen. The Secretary is authorized to permit the Tuskegee 
University Department of Aviation Science to occupy historic buildings 
within the Moton Field complex until the Tuskegee Airmen National Center 
has been completed.
    (c) Report.--Within <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with Tuskegee 
University and the Tuskegee Airmen, shall prepare a report on the 
partnership needed to develop the Tuskegee Airmen National Center, and 
submit the report to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate.

    (d) Time for Agreement.--Sixty days after the report required by 
subsection (c) is submitted to Congress, the Secretary may enter into 
the cooperative agreement under this section with Tuskegee University, 
and other interested partners, to implement the development and 
operation of the Tuskegee Airmen National Center.

SEC. 305. GENERAL <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    Within 2 complete fiscal years after funds are first made available 
to carry out this title, the Secretary shall prepare, in consultation 
with Tuskegee University, a general management plan for the historic 
site and shall submit the plan to the Committee on Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate.

SEC. 306. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this title, $29,114,000.

   TITLE IV--DELAWARE <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note [table].>>  AND LEHIGH 
NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR OF PENNSYLVANIA

SEC. 401. CHANGE IN NAME OF HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    The Delaware and Lehigh Navigation Canal National Heritage Corridor 
Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-692; 102 Stat. 4552; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is 
amended by striking ``Delaware and Lehigh Navigation Canal National 
Heritage Corridor'' each place it appears (except section 4(a)) and 
inserting ``Delaware and Lehigh National Heritage Corridor''.

SEC. 402. PURPOSE.

    Section 3(b) of such Act (102 Stat. 4552) is amended as follows:
            (1) By inserting after ``subdivisions'' the following: ``in 
        enhancing economic development within the context of 
        preservation and''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3259]]

            (2) By striking ``and surrounding the Delaware and Lehigh 
        Navigation Canal in the Commonwealth'' and inserting ``the 
        Corridor''.

SEC. 403. CORRIDOR COMMISSION.

    (a) Membership.--Section 5(b) of such Act (102 Stat. 4553) is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``appointed not later than 6 months after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act''.
            (2) By striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) three individuals appointed by the Secretary upon 
        consideration of individuals recommended by the Governor, of 
        whom--
                    ``(A) one shall represent the Pennsylvania 
                Department of Conservation and Natural Resources;
                    ``(B) one shall represent the Pennsylvania 
                Department of Community and Economic Development; and
                    ``(C) one shall represent the Pennsylvania 
                Historical and Museum Commission.''.
            (3) In paragraph (3), by striking ``the Secretary, after 
        receiving recommendations from the Governor, of whom'' and all 
        that follows through ``Delaware Canal region'' and inserting the 
        following: ``the Secretary upon consideration of individuals 
        recommended by the Governor, of whom--
                    ``(A) one shall represent a city, one shall 
                represent a borough, and one shall represent a township; 
                and
                    ``(B) one shall represent each of the 5 counties of 
                Luzerne, Carbon, Lehigh, Northampton, and Bucks in 
                Pennsylvania''.
            (4) In paragraph (4)--
                    (A) By striking ``8 individuals'' and inserting 
                ``nine individuals''.
                    (B) By striking ``the Secretary, after receiving 
                recommendations from the Governor, who shall have'' and 
                all that follows through ``Canal region. A vacancy'' and 
                inserting the following: ``the Secretary upon 
                consideration of individuals recommended by the 
                Governor, of whom--
                    ``(A) three shall represent the northern region of 
                the Corridor;
                    ``(B) three shall represent the middle region of the 
                Corridor; and
                    ``(C) three shall represent the southern region of 
                the Corridor.

A vacancy''.
    (b) Terms.--Section 5 of such Act (102 Stat. 4553) is amended by 
striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Terms.--The following provisions shall apply to a member of 
the Commission appointed under paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (b):
            ``(1) Length of term.--The member shall be appointed for a 
        term of 3 years.
            ``(2) Carryover.--The member shall serve until a successor 
        is appointed by the Secretary.
            ``(3) Replacement.--If <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  the member 
        resigns or is unable to serve due to incapacity or death, the 
        Secretary shall appoint, not later than 60 days after receiving 
        a nomination of the

[[Page 112 STAT. 3260]]

        appointment from the Governor, a new member to serve for the 
        remainder of the term.
            ``(4) Term limits.--A member may serve for not more than 6 
        years.''.

SEC. 404. POWERS OF CORRIDOR COMMISSION.

    (a) Conveyance of Real Estate.--Section 7(g)(3) of such Act (102 
Stat. 4555) is amended in the first sentence by inserting ``or nonprofit 
organization'' after ``appropriate public agency''.
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--Section 7(h) of such Act (102 Stat. 
4555) is amended as follows:
            (1) In the first sentence, by inserting ``any nonprofit 
        organization,'' after ``subdivision of the Commonwealth,''.
            (2) In the second sentence, by inserting ``such nonprofit 
        organization,'' after ``such political subdivision,''.

SEC. 405. DUTIES OF CORRIDOR COMMISSION.

    Section 8(b) of such Act (102 Stat. 4556) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``, cultural, natural, 
recreational, and scenic'' after ``interpret the historic''.

SEC. 406. TERMINATION OF CORRIDOR COMMISSION.

    Section 9(a) of such Act (102 Stat. 4556) is amended by striking 
``on the day occurring 5 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act'' and inserting ``on November 18, 2003''.

SEC. 407. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES.

    Section 11 of such Act (102 Stat. 4557) is amended in the matter 
preceding paragraph (1) by striking ``the flow of the Canal or the 
natural'' and inserting ``directly affecting the purposes of the 
Corridor''.

SEC. 408. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Commission.--Section 12(a) of such Act (102 Stat. 4558) is 
amended by striking ``$350,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
    (b) Management Action Plan.--Section 12 of such Act (102 Stat. 4558) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Management Action Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--To implement the management action plan 
        created by the Commission, there is authorized to be 
        appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2000 through 
        2007.
            ``(2) Limitation on expenditures.--Amounts made available 
        under paragraph (1) shall not exceed 50 percent of the costs of 
        implementing the management action plan.''.

SEC. 409. LOCAL AUTHORITY AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    Such Act is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 13 (102 Stat. 4558) as section 
        14; and
            (2) by inserting after section 12 the following:

``SEC. 13. LOCAL AUTHORITY AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    ``The Commission shall not interfere with--
            ``(1) the private property rights of any person; or
            ``(2) any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the 
        Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or any political subdivision of 
        Pennsylvania.''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3261]]

SEC. 410. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    Section 10 of such Act (102 Stat. 4557) is amended by striking 
subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Technical Assistance and Grants.--The Secretary, upon request 
of the Commission, is authorized to provide grants and technical 
assistance to the Commission or units of government, nonprofit 
organizations, and other persons, for development and implementation of 
the Plan.''.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 501. BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR, 
            MASSACHUSETTS AND RHODE ISLAND.

    Section 10(b) of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the 
Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and 
Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 
461 note), is amended by striking ``For fiscal year 1996, 1997, and 
1998,'' and inserting ``For fiscal years 1998, 1999, and 2000,''.

SEC. 502. ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR, 
            ILLINOIS.

    (a) Extension of Commission.--Section 111(a) of the Illinois and 
Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-
398; 98 Stat. 1456; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by striking ``ten'' 
and inserting ``20''.
    (b) Repeal of Extension Authority.--Section 111 of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 461 note) is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) Termination.--''; and
            (2) by striking subsection (b).

SEC. 503. <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note [table].>>  WASATCH-CACHE NATIONAL 
            FOREST AND MOUNT NAOMI WILDERNESS, UTAH.

    (a) Boundary Adjustment.--To correct a faulty land survey, the 
boundaries of the Wasatch-Cache National Forest in the State of Utah and 
the boundaries of the Mount Naomi Wilderness, which is located within 
the Wasatch-Cache National Forest and was established as a component of 
the National Wilderness Preservation System in section 102(a)(1) of the 
Utah Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-428; 98 Stat. 1657), are 
hereby modified to exclude the parcel of land known as the D. Hyde 
property, which encompasses an area of cultivation and private use, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``D. Hyde Property Section 7 
Township 12 North Range 2 East SLB & M'', dated July 23, 1998.
    (b) Land <<NOTE: Darrell Edward Hyde.>>  Conveyance.--The Secretary 
of Agriculture shall convey to Darrell Edward Hyde of Cache County, 
Utah, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
parcel of land identified in subsection (a). As part of the conveyance, 
the Secretary shall release, on behalf of the United States, any claims 
of the United States against Darrell Edward Hyde for trespass or 
unauthorized use of the parcel before its conveyance.

    (c) Wilderness Addition.--To prevent any net loss of wilderness 
within the State of Utah, the boundaries of the Mount Naomi Wilderness 
are hereby modified to include a parcel of land comprising approximately 
7.25 acres, identified as the ``Mount Naomi

[[Page 112 STAT. 3262]]

Wilderness Boundary Realignment Consideration'' on the map entitled 
``Mount Naomi Wilderness Addition'', dated September 25, 1998.

SEC. 504. AUTHORIZATION TO USE LAND IN MERCED COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, FOR 
            ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.

    (a) Removal of Restrictions.--Notwithstanding the restrictions 
otherwise applicable under the terms of conveyance by the United States 
of any of the land described in subsection (b) to Merced County, 
California, or under any agreement concerning any part of such land 
between such county and the Secretary of the Interior or any other 
officer or agent of the United States, the land described in subsection 
(b) may be used for the purpose specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Land Affected.--The land referred to in subsection (a) is the 
north 25 acres of the 40 acres located in the northwest quarter of the 
southwest quarter of section 20, township 7 south, range 13 east, Mount 
Diablo base line and Meridian in Merced County, California, conveyed to 
such county by deed recorded in volume 1941 at page 441 of the official 
records in Merced County, California.
    (c) Authorized Uses.--Merced County, California, may authorize the 
use of the land described in subsection (b) for an elementary school 
serving children without regard to their race, creed, color, national 
origin, physical or mental disability, or sex, operated by a 
nonsectarian organization on a nonprofit basis and in compliance with 
all applicable requirements of the laws of the United States and the 
State of California. If Merced County permits such lands to be used for 
such purposes, the county shall include information concerning such use 
in the periodic reports to the Secretary of the Interior required under 
the terms of the conveyance of such lands to the county by the United 
States. Any violation of the provisions of this subsection shall be 
deemed to be a breach of the conditions and covenants under which such 
lands were conveyed to Merced County by the United States, and shall 
have the same effect as provided by deed whereby the United States 
conveyed the lands to the county. Except as specified in this 
subsection, nothing in this section shall increase or diminish the 
authority or responsibility of the county with respect to the land.

SEC. 505. <<NOTE: California.>>  ROSIE THE RIVETER NATIONAL PARK SERVICE 
            AFFILIATED SITE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The City of Richmond, California, is located on the 
        northeastern shore of San Francisco Bay and consists of several 
        miles of waterfront which have been used for shipping and 
        industry since the beginning of the 20th century. During the 
        years of World War II, the population of Richmond grew from 220 
        to over 100,000.
            (2) An area of Richmond, California, now known as Marina 
        Park and Marina Green, was the location in the 1940's of the 
        Richmond Kaiser Shipyards, which produced Liberty and Victory 
        ships during World War II.
            (3) Thousands of women of all ages and ethnicities moved 
        from across the United States to Richmond, California, in search 
        of high paying jobs and skills never before available to women 
        in the shipyards.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3263]]

            (4) Kaiser Corporation supported women workers by installing 
        child care centers at the shipyards so mothers could work while 
        their children were well cared for nearby.
            (5) These women, referred to as ``Rosie the Riveter'' and 
        ``Wendy the Welder'', built hundreds of Liberty and Victory 
        ships in record time for use by the United States Navy. Their 
        labor played a crucial role in increasing American productivity 
        during the war years and in meeting the demand for naval ships.
            (6) In part the Japanese plan to defeat the United States 
        Navy was predicated on victory occurring before United States 
        shipyards could build up its fleet of ships.
            (7) The City of Richmond, California, has dedicated the 
        former site of Kaiser Shipyard #2 as Rosie the Riveter Memorial 
        Park and will construct a memorial honoring American women's 
        labor during World War II. The memorial will be representative 
        of one of the Liberty ships built on the site during the war 
        effort.
            (8) The City of Richmond, California, is committed to 
        collective interpretative oral histories for the public to learn 
        of the stories of the ``Rosies'' and ``Wendys'' who worked in 
        the shipyards.
            (9) The Rosie the Riveter Park is a nationally significant 
        site because there tens of thousands of women entered the 
        workforce for the first time, working in heavy industry to 
        support their families and the War effort. This was a turning 
        point for the Richmond, California, area and the Nation as a 
        whole, when women joined the workforce and successfully 
        completed jobs for which previously it was believed they were 
        incapable.

    (b) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall conduct 
        a feasibility study to determine whether--
                    (A) the Rosie the Riveter Park located in Richmond, 
                California, is suitable for designation as an affiliated 
                site to the National Park Service; and
                    (B) the Rosie the Riveter Memorial Committee 
                established by the City of Richmond, California, with 
                respect to that park is eligible for technical 
                assistance for interpretative functions relating to the 
                park, including preservation of oral histories from 
                former works at the Richmond Kaiser Shipyards.
            (2) Reports.--Not <<NOTE: Deadlne.>>  later than 6 months 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        complete the study under paragraph (1) and submit a report 
        containing findings, conclusions, and recommendations from the 
        study to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Environment of 
        the Senate.

SEC. 506. FORT DAVIS HISTORIC SITE, FORT DAVIS, TEXAS.

    The Act entitled ``An Act Authorizing the establishment of a 
national historic site at Fort Davis, Jeff Davis County, Texas'', 
approved September 8, 1961 (75 Stat. 488; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is 
amended in the first section by striking ``not to exceed four hundred 
and sixty acres'' and inserting ``not to exceed 476 acres''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3264]]

SEC. 507. REAUTHORIZATION OF DELAWARE WATER GAP NATIONAL RECREATION AREA 
            CITIZEN ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    Section 5 of Public Law 101-573 (16 U.S.C. 460o note) is amended by 
striking ``10'' and inserting ``20''.

SEC. 508. ACQUISITION <<NOTE: New Jersey.>>  OF WARREN PROPERTY FOR 
            MORRISTOWN NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the establishment of the 
Morristown National Historical Park in the State of New Jersey, and for 
other purposes'', approved March 2, 1933 (chapter 182; 16 U.S.C. 409 et 
seq.), is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``Sec. 8. (a) <<NOTE: 16 USC 409i.>>  In addition to any other lands 
or interest authorized to be acquired for inclusion in Morristown 
National Historical Park, and notwithstanding the first proviso of the 
first section of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior may acquire by 
purchase, donation, purchase with appropriated funds, or otherwise, not 
to exceed 15 acres of land and interests therein comprising the property 
known as the Warren Property or Mount Kimble. The Secretary may expend 
such sums as may be necessary for such acquisition.

    ``(b) Any lands or interests acquired under this section shall be 
included in and administered as part of the Morristown National 
Historical Park.''.

SEC. 509. GEORGE <<NOTE: 16 USC 442 note.>>  WASHINGTON BIRTHPLACE 
            NATIONAL MONUMENT, VIRGINIA.

    (a) Acquisition of Easement.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
acquire no more than a less than fee interest in the property generally 
known as George Washington's Boyhood Home, Ferry Farm, located in 
Stafford County, Virginia, across the Rappahannock River from 
Fredericksburg, Virginia, comprising approximately 85 acres as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``George Washington Birthplace National 
Monument Boundary Map'', numbered 
322/80,020, and dated April 1998, to ensure the preservation of the 
important cultural and natural resources associated with Ferry Farm. The 
Secretary of the Interior shall keep the map on file and available for 
public inspection in appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (b) Management <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  of Easement.--The Secretary 
shall enter into a cooperative agreement with Kenmore Association, Inc., 
for the management of Ferry Farm pending completion of the study 
referred to in subsection (c).

    (c) Resource <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Study.--Not later than 18 months 
after the date on which funds are made available to carry out this 
section, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives a resource study of the 
property described in subsection (a). The study shall--
            (1) identify the full range of resources and historic themes 
        associated with Ferry Farm, including those associated with 
        George Washington's tenure at the property and those associated 
        with the Civil War period;
            (2) identify alternatives for further National Park Service 
        involvement at the property beyond those that may be provided 
        for in the acquisition authorized under subsection (a); and

[[Page 112 STAT. 3265]]

            (3) include cost estimates for any necessary acquisition, 
        development, interpretation, operation, and maintenance 
        associated with the alternatives identified.

    (d) Agreements.--Upon completion of the resource study under 
subsection (c), the Secretary of the Interior may enter into an 
agreement with the owner of the property described in subsection (a) or 
other entities for the purpose of providing programs, services, 
facilities, or technical assistance that further the preservation and 
public use of the property.

SEC. 510. ABRAHAM <<NOTE: 16 USC 218a.>>  LINCOLN BIRTHPLACE NATIONAL 
            HISTORIC SITE, KENTUCKY.

    (a) In General.--Upon acquisition of the land known as Knob Creek 
Farm pursuant to subsection (b), the boundary of the Abraham Lincoln 
Birthplace National Historic Site, established by the Act of July 17, 
1916 (39 Stat. 385, chapter 247; 16 U.S.C. 211 et seq.), is revised to 
include such land. Lands acquired pursuant to this section shall be 
administered by the Secretary of the Interior as part of the historic 
site.
    (b) Acquisition of Knob Creek Farm.--The Secretary of the Interior 
may acquire, by donation only, the approximately 228 acres of land known 
as Knob Creek Farm in Larue County, Kentucky, as generally depicted on a 
map entitled ``Knob Creek Farm Unit, Abraham Lincoln National Historic 
Site'', numbered 338/80,077, and dated October 1998. Such map shall be 
on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices 
of the National Park Service.
    (c) Study and <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Report.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall study the Knob Creek Farm in Larue County, Kentucky, and 
not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
submit a report to the Congress containing the results of the study. The 
purpose of the study shall be to:
            (1) Identify significant resources associated with the Knob 
        Creek Farm and the early boyhood of Abraham Lincoln.
            (2) Evaluate the threats to the long-term protection of the 
        Knob Creek Farm's cultural, recreational, and natural resources.
            (3) Examine the incorporation of the Knob Creek Farm into 
        the operations of the Abraham Lincoln Birthplace National 
        Historic Site and establish a strategic management plan for 
        implementing such incorporation. In developing the plan, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) determine infrastructure requirements and 
                property improvements needed at Knob Creek Farm to meet 
                National Park Service standards;
                    (B) identify current and potential uses of Knob 
                Creek Farm for recreational, interpretive, and 
                educational opportunities; and
                    (C) project costs and potential revenues associated 
                with acquisition, development, and operation of Knob 
                Creek Farm.

    (d) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (c).

SEC. 511. STUDIES OF POTENTIAL NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM UNITS IN HAWAII.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the National Park Service, shall undertake feasibility

[[Page 112 STAT. 3266]]

studies regarding the establishment of National Park System units in the 
following areas in the State of Hawaii:
            (1) Island of Maui: The shoreline area known as ``North 
        Beach'', immediately north of the present resort hotels at 
        Kaanapali Beach, in the Lahaina district in the area extending 
        from the beach inland to the main highway.
            (2) Island of Lanai: The mountaintop area known as ``Hale'' 
        a the central part of the island.
            (3) Island of Kauai: The shoreline area from ``Anini Beach'' 
        to ``Makua Tunnels'' on the north coast of this island.
            (4) Island of Molokai: The ``Halawa Valley'' on the eastern 
        end of the island, including its shoreline, cove and lookout/
        access roadway.

    (b) Kalaupapa Settlement Boundaries.--The studies conducted under 
this section shall include a study of the feasibility of extending the 
present National Historic Park boundaries at Kalaupapa Settlement 
eastward to Halawa Valley along the island's north shore.
    (c) Report.--A report containing the results of the studies under 
this section shall be submitted to the Congress promptly upon 
completion.

SEC. 512. MEMORIAL <<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note [table].>>  TO MR. BENJAMIN 
            BANNEKER IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

    (a) Memorial Authorized.--The Washington Interdependence Council of 
the District of Columbia is authorized to establish a memorial in the 
District of Columbia to honor and commemorate the accomplishments of Mr. 
Benjamin Banneker.
    (b) Compliance With Standards For Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial shall be in accordance with the 
Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
    (c) Payment of Expenses.--The Washington Interdependence Council 
shall be solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and 
payment of the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial. No 
Federal funds may be used to pay any expense of the establishment of the 
memorial.
    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, upon payment of all expenses of 
the establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and 
preservation amount required under section 8(b) of the Commemorative 
Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1008(b))), or upon expiration of the authority for 
the memorial under section 10(b) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)), there 
remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the 
memorial, the Washington Interdependence Council shall transmit the 
amount of the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in 
the account provided for in section 8(b)(1) of such Act (40 U.S.C. 
1008(b)(1)).

SEC. 513. LAND ACQUISITION, BOSTON HARBOR ISLANDS RECREATION AREA.

    Section 1029(c) of division I of the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-333; 110 Stat. 4233; 16 U.S.C. 
460kkk(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:

[[Page 112 STAT. 3267]]

            ``(3) Land acquisition.--Notwithstanding subsection (h), the 
        Secretary is authorized to acquire, in partnership with other 
        entities, a less than fee interest in lands at Thompson Island 
        within the recreation area. The Secretary may acquire the lands 
        only by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, 
        or by exchange.''.

    Approved November 6, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3910:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            Nov. 6, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>