[105th Congress Public Law 225]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ225.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 1253]]

Public Law 105-225
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To revise, codify, and enact without substantive change certain general 
                                  and 
     permanent laws, related to patriotic and national observances, 
    ceremonies, and organizations, as title 36, United States Code, 
         ``Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and 
        Organizations''. <<NOTE: Aug. 12, 1998 -  [H.R. 1085]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. TITLE 36, UNITED STATES CODE. <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 
            101.>> 

    Certain general and permanent laws of the United States, related to 
patriotic and national observances, ceremonies, and organizations, are 
revised, codified, and enacted as title 36, United States Code, 
``Patriotic and National Observances, Ceremonies, and Organizations'', 
as follows:

     TITLE 36--PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL OBSERVANCES, CEREMONIES, AND 
                              ORGANIZATIONS

Subtitle                                                            Sec.
            PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL OBSERVANCES AND CEREMONIES        101
            PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS                   10101
            TREATY OBLIGATION ORGANIZATIONS                       300101

      SUBTITLE I--PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL OBSERVANCES AND CEREMONIES

                   PART A--OBSERVANCES AND CEREMONIES

Chapter                                                             Sec.
            PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL OBSERVANCES                       101
            NATIONAL ANTHEM, MOTTO, FLORAL EMBLEM, AND MARCH         301
            PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURAL CEREMONIES                        501
            FEDERAL PARTICIPATION IN CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS
              CLEANUP DAY                                            701
            MISCELLANEOUS                                            901

PART B--UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED WITH OBSERVANCES 
                             AND CEREMONIES

            AMERICAN BATTLE MONUMENTS COMMISSION                    2101
            UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL COUNCIL                2301
            PRESIDENT'S   COMMITTEE   ON   EMPLOYMENT   OF  PEOPLE
              WITH DISABILITIES                                     2501

[[Page 112 STAT. 1254]]

                   PART A--OBSERVANCES AND CEREMONIES

              CHAPTER 1--PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL OBSERVANCES

Sec.
101.  American Heart Month.
102.  Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month.
103.  Cancer Control Month.
104.  Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day.
105.  Child Health Day.
106.  Citizenship Day.
107.  Columbus Day.
108.  Constitution Week.
109.  Father's Day.
110.  Flag Day.
111.  Gold Star Mother's Day.
112.  Honor America Days.
113.  Law Day, U.S.A.
114.  Leif Erikson Day.
115.  Loyalty Day.
116.  Memorial Day.
117.  Mother's Day.
118.  National Aviation Day.
119.  National Day of Prayer.
120.  National Defense Transportation Day.
121.  National Disability Employment Awareness Month.
122.  National Flag Week.
123.  National Forest Products Week.
124.  National Freedom Day.
125.  National Grandparents Day.
126.  National Hispanic Heritage Month.
127.  National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.
128.  National Maritime Day.
129.  National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.
130.  National Poison Prevention Week.
131.  National Safe Boating Week.
132.  National School Lunch Week.
133.  National Transportation Week.
134.  Pan American Aviation Day.
135.  Parents' Day.
136.  Peace Officers Memorial Day.
137.  Police Week.
138.  Save Your Vision Week.
139.  Steelmark Month.
140.  Stephen Foster Memorial Day.
141.  Thomas Jefferson's birthday.
142.  White Cane Safety Day.
143.  Wright Brothers Day.

Sec. 101. American Heart Month

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating February as American Heart Month;
            (2) inviting the chief executive officers of the States, 
        territories, and possessions of the United States to issue 
        proclamations designating February as American Heart Month; and
            (3) urging the people of the United States to recognize the 
        nationwide problem of heart and blood vessel diseases and to 
        support all essential programs required to solve the problem.

Sec. 102. Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month

    (a) Designation.--May is Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month.
    (b) Proclamations.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States, and the chief 
executive officers of each State of the United States,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1255]]

the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico, Guam, 
American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, 
Micronesia, and Palau are requested to issue each year proclamations 
calling on the people of their respective jurisdictions, to observe 
Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month with appropriate programs, 
ceremonies, and activities.

Sec. 103. Cancer Control Month

    (a) General.--The President is requested--
            (1) to issue each year a proclamation designating April as 
        Cancer Control Month; and
            (2) to invite each year the chief executive officers of the 
        States, territories, and possessions of the United States to 
        issue proclamations designating April as Cancer Control Month.

    (b) Contents of Proclamations.--As part of those proclamations, the 
chief executive officers and President are requested to invite the 
medical profession, the press, and all agencies and individuals 
interested in a national program for the control of cancer by education 
and other cooperative means to unite during Cancer Control Month in a 
public dedication to the program and in a concerted effort to make the 
people of the United States aware of the need for the program.

Sec. 104. Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day

    (a) Designation.--The first Saturday after Labor Day is Carl Garner 
Federal Lands Cleanup Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President shall issue a proclamation calling 
on the people of the United States to observe Carl Garner Federal Lands 
Cleanup Day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities. 
However, activities may be undertaken in individual States on a day 
other than the first Saturday after Labor Day if a manager of Federal 
land decides that an alternative date is more appropriate because of 
climatological or other factors.

Sec. 105. Child Health Day

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the first Monday in October as Child Health 
        Day; and
            (2) inviting all agencies and organizations interested in 
        child welfare to unite on Child Health Day in observing 
        exercises that will make the people of the United States aware 
        of the fundamental necessity of a year-round program to protect 
        and develop the health of the children of the United States.

Sec. 106. Citizenship Day

    (a) Designation.--September 17 is Citizenship Day.
    (b) Purpose.--Citizenship Day commemorates the formation and signing 
on September 17, 1787, of the Constitution and recognizes all who, by 
coming of age or by naturalization, have become citizens.
    (c) Proclamation.--The President may issue each year a proclamation 
calling on United States Government officials to display the flag of the 
United States on all Government buildings on Citizenship Day and 
inviting the people of the United States to observe Citizenship Day, in 
schools and churches, or other suitable places, with appropriate 
ceremonies.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1256]]

    (d) State and Local Observances.--The civil and educational 
authorities of States, counties, cities, and towns are urged to make 
plans for the proper observance of Citizenship Day and for the complete 
instruction of citizens in their responsibilities and opportunities as 
citizens of the United States and of the State and locality in which 
they reside.

Sec. 107. Columbus Day

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the second Monday in October as Columbus 
        Day;
            (2) calling on United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on 
        Columbus Day; and
            (3) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        Columbus Day, in schools and churches, or other suitable places, 
        with appropriate ceremonies that express the public sentiment 
        befitting the anniversary of the discovery of America.

Sec. 108. Constitution Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating September 17 through September 23 as 
        Constitution Week; and
            (2) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        Constitution Week, in schools, churches, and other suitable 
        places, with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

Sec. 109. Father's Day

    (a) Designation.--The third Sunday in June is Father's Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation--
            (1) calling on United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on 
        Father's Day;
            (2) inviting State and local governments and the people of 
        the United States to observe Father's Day with appropriate 
        ceremonies; and
            (3) urging the people of the United States to offer public 
        and private expressions of Father's Day to the abiding love and 
        gratitude they have for their fathers.

Sec. 110. Flag Day

    (a) Designation.--June 14 is Flag Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation--
            (1) calling on United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on 
        Flag Day; and
            (2) urging the people of the United States to observe Flag 
        Day as the anniversary of the adoption on June 14, 1777, by the 
        Continental Congress of the Stars and Stripes as the official 
        flag of the United States.

Sec. 111. Gold Star Mother's Day

    (a) Designation.--The last Sunday in September is Gold Star Mother's 
Day.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1257]]

    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation calling on United States Government officials to display 
the flag of the United States on all Government buildings, and the 
people of the United States to display the flag and hold appropriate 
meetings at homes, churches, or other suitable places, on Gold Star 
Mother's Day as a public expression of the love, sorrow, and reverence 
of the people for Gold Star Mothers.

Sec. 112. Honor America Days

    (a) Designation.--The 21 days from Flag Day through Independence Day 
is a period to honor America.
    (b) Congressional Declaration.--Congress declares that there be 
public gatherings and activities during that period at which the people 
of the United States can celebrate and honor their country in an 
appropriate way.

Sec. 113. Law Day, U.S.A.

    (a) Designation.--May 1 is Law Day, U.S.A.
    (b) Purpose.--Law Day, U.S.A., is a special day of celebration by 
the people of the United States--
            (1) in appreciation of their liberties and the reaffirmation 
        of their loyalty to the United States and of their rededication 
        to the ideals of equality and justice under law in their 
        relations with each other and with other countries; and
            (2) for the cultivation of the respect for law that is so 
        vital to the democratic way of life.

    (c) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation--
            (1) calling on all public officials to display the flag of 
        the United States on all Government buildings on Law Day, 
        U.S.A.; and
            (2) inviting the people of the United States to observe Law 
        Day, U.S.A., with appropriate ceremonies and in other 
        appropriate ways, through public entities and private 
        organizations and in schools and other suitable places.

Sec. 114. Leif Erikson Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation designating October 
9 as Leif Erikson Day.

Sec. 115. Loyalty Day

    (a) Designation.--May 1 is Loyalty Day.
    (b) Purpose.--Loyalty Day is a special day for the reaffirmation of 
loyalty to the United States and for the recognition of the heritage of 
American freedom.
    (c) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation--
            (1) calling on United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on 
        Loyalty Day; and
            (2) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        Loyalty Day with appropriate ceremonies in schools and other 
        suitable places.

Sec. 116. Memorial Day

    (a) Designation.--The last Monday in May is Memorial Day.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1258]]

    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation--
            (1) calling on the people of the United States to observe 
        Memorial Day by praying, according to their individual religious 
        faith, for permanent peace;
            (2) designating a period of time on Memorial Day during 
        which the people may unite in prayer for a permanent peace;
            (3) calling on the people of the United States to unite in 
        prayer at that time; and
            (4) calling on the media to join in observing Memorial Day 
        and the period of prayer.

Sec. 117. Mother's Day

    (a) Designation.--The second Sunday in May is Mother's Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation calling on United States Government officials to display 
the flag of the United States on all Government buildings, and on the 
people of the United States to display the flag at their homes or other 
suitable places, on Mother's Day as a public expression of love and 
reverence for the mothers of the United States.

Sec. 118. National Aviation Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating August 19 as National Aviation Day;
            (2) calling on United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on 
        National Aviation Day; and
            (3) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        National Aviation Day with appropriate exercises to further 
        stimulate interest in aviation in the United States.

Sec. 119. National Day of Prayer

    The President shall issue each year a proclamation designating the 
first Thursday in May as a National Day of Prayer on which the people of 
the United States may turn to God in prayer and meditation at churches, 
in groups, and as individuals.

Sec. 120. National Defense Transportation Day

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the third Friday in May as National Defense 
        Transportation Day; and
            (2) urging the people of the United States, including labor, 
        management, users, and investors, in all communities served by 
        the various forms of transportation to observe National Defense 
        Transportation Day by appropriate ceremonies that will give 
        complete recognition to the importance to each community and its 
        people of the transportation system of the United States and the 
        maintenance of the facilities of the system in the most modern 
        state of adequacy to serve the needs of the United States in 
        times of peace and in national defense.

Sec. 121. National Disability Employment Awareness Month

    (a) Designation.--October is National Disability Employment 
Awareness Month.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1259]]

    (b) Ceremonies.--Appropriate ceremonies shall be held throughout the 
United States during National Disability Employment Awareness Month to 
enlist public support for, and interest in, the employment of workers 
with disabilities who are otherwise qualified. Governors, mayors, heads 
of other governmental entities, and interested organizations and 
individuals are invited to participate in the ceremonies.
    (c) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
suitable proclamation.

Sec. 122. National Flag Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the week in which June 14 falls as National 
        Flag Week; and
            (2) calling on citizens to display the flag of the United 
        States during National Flag Week.

Sec. 123. National Forest Products Week

    (a) Designation.--The week beginning on the third Sunday in October 
is National Forest Products Week.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
National Forest Products Week with appropriate ceremonies and 
activities.

Sec. 124. National Freedom Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation designating 
February 1 as National Freedom Day to commemorate the signing by Abraham 
Lincoln on February 1, 1865, of the joint resolution adopted by the 
Senate and the House of Representatives that proposed the 13th amendment 
to the Constitution.

Sec. 125. National Grandparents Day

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the first Sunday in September after Labor 
        Day as National Grandparents Day; and
            (2) calling on the people of the United States and 
        interested groups and organizations to observe National 
        Grandparents Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

Sec. 126. National Hispanic Heritage Month

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating September 15 through October 15 as National 
        Hispanic Heritage Month; and
            (2) calling on the people of the United States, especially 
        the educational community, to observe National Hispanic Heritage 
        Month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

Sec. 127. National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day

    (a) Designation.--July 27 of each year until 2003 is National Korean 
War Veterans Armistice Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on--
            (1) the people of the United States to observe National 
        Korean War Veterans Armistice Day with appropriate ceremonies 
        and activities; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1260]]

            (2) all departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the 
        United States Government, and interested organizations, groups, 
        and individuals, to fly the flag of the United States at 
        halfstaff on July 27 of each year until 2003 in honor of the 
        individuals who died as a result of their service in Korea.

Sec. 128. National Maritime Day

    (a) Designation.--May 22 is National Maritime Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on--
            (1) the people of the United States to observe National 
        Maritime Day by displaying the flag of the United States at 
        their homes or other suitable places; and
            (2) United States Government officials to display the flag 
        on all Government buildings on National Maritime Day.

Sec. 129. National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day

    (a) Designation.--December 7 is National Pearl Harbor Remembrance 
Day.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on--
            (1) the people of the United States to observe National 
        Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day with appropriate ceremonies and 
        activities; and
            (2) all departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the 
        United States Government, and interested organizations, groups, 
        and individuals, to fly the flag of the United States at 
        halfstaff each December 7 in honor of the individuals who died 
        as a result of their service at Pearl Harbor.

Sec. 130. National Poison Prevention Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation 
designating the third week in March as National Poison Prevention Week 
to aid in encouraging the people of the United States to learn of the 
dangers of accidental poisoning and to take preventive measures that are 
warranted by the seriousness of the danger.

Sec. 131. National Safe Boating Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation 
designating the 7-day period ending on the last Friday before Memorial 
Day as National Safe Boating Week.

Sec. 132. National School Lunch Week

    (a) Designation.--The week beginning on the second Sunday in October 
is National School Lunch Week.
    (b) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
National School Lunch Week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

Sec. 133. National Transportation Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the week that includes the third Friday of 
        May as National Transportation Week; and
            (2) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        National Transportation Week with appropriate ceremonies and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1261]]

        activities as a tribute to the men and women who, night and day, 
        move goods and individuals throughout the United States.

Sec. 134. Pan American Aviation Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating December 17 as Pan American Aviation Day; 
        and
            (2) calling on all officials of the United States 
        Government, the chief executive offices of the States, 
        territories, and possessions of the United States, and all 
        citizens to participate in the observance of Pan American 
        Aviation Day to further, and stimulate interest in, aviation in 
        the American countries as an important stimulus to the further 
        development of more rapid communications and a cultural 
        development between the countries of the Western Hemisphere.

Sec. 135. Parents' Day

    (a) Designation.--The fourth Sunday in July is Parents' Day.
    (b) Recognition.--All private citizens, organizations, and Federal, 
State, and local governmental and legislative entities are encouraged to 
recognize Parents' Day through proclamations, activities, and 
educational efforts in furtherance of recognizing, uplifting, and 
supporting the role of parents in bringing up their children.

Sec. 136. Peace Officers Memorial Day

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating May 15 as Peace Officers Memorial Day in 
        honor of Federal, State, and local officers killed or disabled 
        in the line of duty;
            (2) directing United States Government officials to display 
        the flag of the United States at halfstaff on all Government 
        buildings on Peace Officers Memorial Day, as provided by section 
        7(m) of title 4, United States Code; and
            (3) inviting State and local governments and the people of 
        the United States to observe Peace Officers Memorial Day with 
        appropriate ceremonies and activities, including the display of 
        the flag at halfstaff.

Sec. 137. Police Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the week in which May 15 occurs as Police 
        Week in recognition of the service given by men and women who 
        stand guard to protect the people of the United States through 
        law enforcement; and
            (2) inviting State and local governments and the people of 
        the United States to observe Police Week with appropriate 
        ceremonies and activities, including the display of the flag at 
        halfstaff.

Sec. 138. Save Your Vision Week

    The President is requested to issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating the first week in March as Save Your Vision 
        Week;
            (2) inviting the governors and mayors of State and local 
        governments to issue proclamations designating the first week in 
        March as Save Your Vision Week;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1262]]

            (3) inviting the communications media, health care 
        professions, and other agencies and individuals concerned with 
        programs for the improvement of vision to unite during Save Your 
        Vision Week in public activities to convince the people of the 
        United States of the importance of vision to their welfare and 
        the welfare of the United States; and
            (4) urging the media, health care professions, and other 
        agencies and individuals to support programs to improve and 
        protect the vision of the people of the United States.

Sec. 139. Steelmark Month

    (a) Designation.--May is Steelmark Month.
    (b) Purpose.--Steelmark Month recognizes the tremendous contribution 
made by the steel industry in the United States to national security and 
defense.
    (c) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue a 
proclamation calling on the people of the United States to observe 
Steelmark Month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

Sec. 140. Stephen Foster Memorial Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating January 13 as Stephen Foster Memorial Day; 
        and
            (2) calling on the people of the United States to observe 
        Stephen Foster Memorial Day with appropriate ceremonies, 
        pilgrimages to his shrines, and musical programs featuring his 
        compositions.

Sec. 141. Thomas Jefferson's birthday

    The President shall issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) calling on officials of the United States Government to 
        display the flag of the United States on all Government 
        buildings on April 13; and
            (2) inviting the people of the United States to observe 
        April 13 in schools and churches, or other suitable places, with 
        appropriate ceremonies in commemoration of Thomas Jefferson's 
        birthday.

Sec. 142. White Cane Safety Day

    The President may issue each year a proclamation--
            (1) designating October 15 as White Cane Safety Day; and
            (2) calling on the people of the United States to observe 
        White Cane Safety Day with appropriate ceremonies and 
        activities.

Sec. 143. Wright Brothers Day

    (a) Designation.--December 17 is Wright Brothers Day.
    (b) Purpose.--Wright Brothers Day commemorates the first successful 
flights in a heavier than air, mechanically propelled airplane, that 
were made by Orville and Wilbur Wright on December 17, 1903, near Kitty 
Hawk, North Carolina.
    (c) Proclamation.--The President is requested to issue each year a 
proclamation inviting the people of the United States to observe Wright 
Brothers Day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1263]]

       CHAPTER 3--NATIONAL ANTHEM, MOTTO, FLORAL EMBLEM, AND MARCH

Sec.
301.  National anthem.
302.  National motto.
303.  National floral emblem.
304.  National march.

Sec. 301. National anthem

    (a) Designation.--The composition consisting of the words and music 
known as the Star-Spangled Banner is the national anthem.
    (b) Conduct During Playing.--During a rendition of the national 
anthem--
            (1) when the flag is displayed--
                    (A) all present except those in uniform should stand 
                at attention facing the flag with the right hand over 
                the heart;
                    (B) men not in uniform should remove their headdress 
                with their right hand and hold the headdress at the left 
                shoulder, the hand being over the heart; and
                    (C) individuals in uniform should give the military 
                salute at the first note of the anthem and maintain that 
                position until the last note; and
            (2) when the flag is not displayed, all present should face 
        toward the music and act in the same manner they would if the 
        flag were displayed.

Sec. 302. National motto

    ``In God we trust'' is the national motto.

Sec. 303. National floral emblem

    The flower commonly known as the rose is the national floral emblem.

Sec. 304. National march

    The composition by John Philip Sousa entitled ``The Stars and 
Stripes Forever'' is the national march.

              CHAPTER 5--PRESIDENTIAL INAUGURAL CEREMONIES

Sec.
501.  Definitions.
502.  Regulations, licenses, and registration tags.
503.  Use of reservations, grounds, and public spaces.
504.  Installation and removal of electrical facilities.
505.  Extension of wires along parade routes.
506.  Duration of regulations and licenses and publication of 
           regulations.
507.  Application to other property.
508.  Enforcement.
509.  Penalty.
510.  Authorization of appropriations.

Sec. 501. Definitions

    For purposes of this chapter--
            (1) ``Inaugural Committee'' means the committee appointed by 
        the President-elect to be in charge of the Presidential 
        inaugural ceremony and functions and activities connected with 
        the ceremony; and
            (2) ``inaugural period'' means the period that includes the 
        day on which the Presidential inaugural ceremony is held,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1264]]

        the 5 calendar days immediately preceding that day, and the 4 
        calendar days immediately following that day.

Sec. 502. Regulations, licenses, and registration tags

    (a) Regulations and Licenses.--For each inaugural period, the 
Council of the District of Columbia shall--
            (1) prescribe reasonable regulations necessary to preserve 
        public order and protect life, health, and property;
            (2) prescribe special regulations related to the standing, 
        movement, and operation of vehicles; and
            (3) grant special licenses to peddlers and vendors to sell 
        merchandise in places the Council considers proper, subject to 
        conditions and fees for the licenses the Council considers 
        proper.

    (b) Registration Tags.--The Mayor of the District of Columbia may 
issue, for any motor vehicle made available for the use of the Inaugural 
Committee, special registration tags, valid for not more than 90 days, 
designed to celebrate the inauguration of the President and Vice 
President.

Sec. 503. Use of reservations, grounds, and public spaces

    (a) Permit for Use.--With the approval of the officer having 
jurisdiction over any of the Federal reservations or grounds in the 
District of Columbia, the Secretary of the Interior may grant to the 
Inaugural Committee a permit to use the reservations or grounds during 
the inaugural period, including a reasonable time before and after the 
inaugural period. The Mayor of the District of Columbia may grant a 
similar permit to use public space under the Mayor's jurisdiction. Each 
permit granted under this subsection is subject to conditions the 
grantor of the permit prescribes.
    (b) Reviewing Stands and Commercial Stands and Structures.--A 
reviewing stand or a stand or structure for the sale of merchandise, 
food, or drink may be built on public grounds in the District of 
Columbia only if approved by the Inaugural Committee and by the 
Secretary or the Mayor, as appropriate.
    (c) Restoration After Inaugural Period.--After the inaugural period, 
the reservation, ground, or public space occupied by a stand or 
structure shall be restored promptly to its prior condition.
    (d) Indemnification.--The Inaugural Committee shall indemnify and 
save harmless the District of Columbia and the appropriate department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government against any 
loss or damage to, and against any liability arising from the use of, 
the reservation, ground, or public space, by the Inaugural Committee or 
a licensee of the Inaugural Committee.

Sec. 504. Installation and removal of electrical facilities

    (a) Installation.--The Mayor of the District of Columbia may allow 
the Inaugural Committee to install suitable overhead conductors and 
electrical facilities, with adequate supports. The official in charge of 
a park or reservation in the District of Columbia in which it is 
necessary to place wires shall supervise the placing and removal of 
those wires.
    (b) Removal.--The conductors and supports shall be removed not later 
than 5 days after the end of the inaugural period.
    (c) Indemnification.--The United States Government and the District 
of Columbia may not incur any expense or damage from

[[Page 112 STAT. 1265]]

the installation, operation, or removal of a temporary overhead 
conductor or electrical facility. The Inaugural Committee shall 
indemnify and hold harmless the District of Columbia and the appropriate 
department, agency, or instrumentality of the Government against any 
loss or damage, and against any liability arising, from any act of the 
Inaugural Committee or any agent, licensee, servant, or employee of the 
Inaugural Committee in connection with the installation, operation, or 
removal of a temporary overhead conductor or electrical facility.

Sec. 505. Extension of wires along parade routes

    The Mayor of the District of Columbia, the Secretary of the 
Interior, and the Inaugural Committee may allow communications companies 
to extend overhead wires to places along a parade route that are 
considered convenient for use in connection with the parade and other 
inaugural purposes. The wires shall be removed not later than 10 days 
after the inaugural period ends.

Sec. 506. Duration of regulations and licenses and publication of 
                        regulations

    Regulations prescribed and licenses authorized under this chapter 
are effective only during the inaugural period. The regulations shall be 
published in at least one daily newspaper published in the District of 
Columbia. A penalty prescribed for violating such a regulation may not 
be enforced until 5 days after publication.

Sec. 507. Application to other property

    This chapter does not apply to the United States Capitol Buildings 
or Grounds or other property under the jurisdiction of Congress or a 
committee, commission, or officer of Congress. A service or facility 
authorized by or under this chapter is available for the property on 
request or approval of the joint committee of the Senate and House of 
Representatives appointed by the President of the Senate and the Speaker 
of the House of Representatives to arrange for the inauguration of the 
President-elect and the Vice President-elect.

Sec. 508. Enforcement

    The Mayor of the District of Columbia, or other official having 
jurisdiction in the premises, shall enforce this chapter, take necessary 
precautions to protect the public, and ensure that the pavement of any 
street, sidewalk, avenue, or alley disturbed or damaged is restored to 
its prior condition.

Sec. 509. Penalty

    A person violating a regulation prescribed under this chapter shall 
be fined under title 18 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. A 
separate violation occurs under this section for each day the violation 
continues.

Sec. 510. Authorization of appropriations

    (a) Authorization.--Necessary amounts are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) to enable the Mayor of the District of Columbia to 
        provide additional municipal services in the District of 
        Columbia during the inaugural period, including--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1266]]

                    (A) employment of personal services without regard 
                to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 
                of title 5;
                    (B) travel expenses of enforcement personnel, 
                including sanitarians, from other jurisdictions;
                    (C) the hiring of the means of transportation;
                    (D) meals for policemen, firemen, and other 
                municipal employees;
                    (E) the cost of removing and relocating streetcar 
                loading platforms, construction, rent, maintenance, and 
                expenses incident to the operation of temporary public 
                comfort stations, first-aid stations, and information 
                booths; and
                    (F) other incidental expenses in the discretion of 
                the Mayor; and
            (2) to enable the Secretary of the Interior to provide meals 
        for the members of the United States Park Police during the 
        inaugural period.

    (b) Payment.--Amounts appropriated under--
            (1) subsection (a)(1) of this section are payable in the 
        same way as other appropriations for the expenses of the 
        District of Columbia; and
            (2) subsection (a)(2) of this section are payable in the 
        same way as other appropriations for the expenses of the 
        Department of the Interior.

 CHAPTER 7--FEDERAL PARTICIPATION IN CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS CLEANUP 
                                   DAY

Sec.
701.  Findings.
702.  Definition.
703.  Duties of Federal land management agency.
704.  Activities.

Sec. 701. Findings

    Congress finds that--
            (1) Federal lands, parks, recreation areas, and waterways 
        provide recreational opportunities for millions of Americans 
        each year;
            (2) Federal lands administered by Federal land management 
        agencies contain valuable wildlife, scenery, natural and 
        historic features, and other resources which may be damaged by 
        litter and misuse;
            (3) it is in the best interest of the United States and its 
        citizens to maintain and preserve the beauty, safety, and 
        availability of these Federal lands;
            (4) these Federal land management agencies have been 
        designated as the caretakers of these Federal lands and are 
        responsible for maintaining and preserving those areas and 
        facilities;
            (5) there is great value in volunteer involvement in 
        maintaining and preserving Federal lands for recreational use;
            (6) the Federal land management agencies should be concerned 
        with promoting a sense of pride and ownership among citizens 
        toward these lands;
            (7) the use of citizen volunteers in a national cleanup 
        effort promotes these goals and encourages the thoughtful use of 
        these Federal lands and facilities;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1267]]

            (8) the positive impact of annual cleanup events held at 
        various recreation sites has already been proven by steadily 
        declining levels of litter at these sites; and
            (9) a national program for cleaning and maintaining 
        Federal lands using volunteers will save millions of tax 
        dollars.

Sec. 702. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``Federal land management agency'' 
includes--
            (1) the Forest Service of the Department of Agriculture;
            (2) the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the 
        Interior;
            (3) the National Park Service of the Department of the 
        Interior;
            (4) the Fish and Wildlife Service of the Department of the 
        Interior;
            (5) the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the 
        Interior; and
            (6) the Army Corps of Engineers.

Sec. 703. Duties of Federal land management agency

    To observe Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day at the Federal 
level, each Federal land management agency shall organize, coordinate, 
and participate with citizen volunteers and State and local authorities 
in cleaning and providing for the maintenance of Federal public land, 
recreation areas, and waterways within the jurisdiction of the agency.

Sec. 704. Activities

    In cooperation with appropriate State and local government 
authorities, each Federal land management agency shall plan for and 
carry out activities on Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day that--
            (1) encourage continuing public and private sector 
        cooperation in preserving the beauty and safety of areas within 
        the jurisdiction of the agency;
            (2) increase citizens' sense of ownership and community 
        pride in those areas;
            (3) reduce litter on Federal lands, along trails and 
        waterways, and within those areas; and
            (4) maintain and improve trails, recreation areas, 
        waterways, and facilities.

                        CHAPTER 9--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec.
901.  Service flag and service lapel button.
902.  National League of Families POW/MIA flag.

Sec. 901. Service flag and service lapel button

    (a) Individuals Entitled To Display Service Flag.--A service flag 
approved by the Secretary of Defense may be displayed in a window of the 
place of residence of individuals who are members of the immediate 
family of an individual serving in the Armed Forces of the United States 
during any period of war or hostilities in which the Armed Forces of the 
United States are engaged.
    (b) Individuals Entitled To Display Service Lapel 
Button.--A service lapel button approved by the Secretary may

[[Page 112 STAT. 1268]]

be worn by members of the immediate family of an individual serving in 
the Armed Forces of the United States during any period of war or 
hostilities in which the Armed Forces of the United States are engaged.
    (c) License To Manufacture and Sell Service Flags and Service Lapel 
Buttons.--Any person may apply to the Secretary for a license to 
manufacture and sell the approved service flag, or the approved service 
lapel button, or both. Any person that manufactures a service flag or 
service lapel button without having first obtained a license, or 
otherwise violates this section is liable to the United States 
Government for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.
    (d) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe regulations necessary 
to carry out this section.

Sec. 902. National League of Families POW/MIA flag

    (a) Designation.--The National League of Families POW/MIA flag is 
designated as the symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to 
resolving as fully as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner, 
missing, and unaccounted for in Southeast Asia, thus ending the 
uncertainty for their families and the Nation.
    (b) Display.--The flag shall be displayed--
            (1) at each national cemetery and at the National Vietnam 
        Veterans Memorial each year on Memorial Day and Veterans Day and 
        on any day designated by law as National POW/MIA Recognition 
        Day; and
            (2) on, or on the grounds of, the buildings containing the 
        primary offices of the Secretaries of State, Defense, and 
        Veterans Affairs, and the Director of the Selective Service 
        System on any day designated by law as National POW/MIA 
        Recognition Day.

    (c) Termination of Flag Display Requirement.--Subsection (b) of this 
section ceases to apply when the President decides that the fullest 
possible accounting has been made of all members of the Armed Forces and 
civilian employees of the United States Government who have been 
identified as prisoners of war or missing in action in Southeast Asia.

PART B--UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS INVOLVED WITH OBSERVANCES 
                             AND CEREMONIES

            CHAPTER 21--AMERICAN BATTLE MONUMENTS COMMISSION

Sec.
2101.  Membership.
2102.  Employment of personnel.
2103.  Administrative.
2104.  Military cemeteries in foreign countries.
2105.  Monuments built by the United States Government.
2106.  War memorials not built by the United States Government.
2107.  National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific.
2108.  Pacific War Memorial and other historical and memorial sites on 
           Corregidor.
2109.  Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account.
2110.  Claims against the Commission.
2111.  Presidential duties and powers.
2112.  Care and maintenance of Surrender Tree site.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1269]]

Sec. 2101. Membership

    (a) Composition and Terms.--The American Battle Monuments Commission 
has not more than 11 members appointed by the President. The President 
also shall appoint one officer of the Regular Army to serve as secretary 
of the Commission. The members and secretary serve at the pleasure of 
the President. The President shall fill any vacancies that occur. 
Notwithstanding any other law, members of the Armed Forces may be 
appointed members of the Commission.
    (b) Pay and Expenses.--The members of the Commission serve without 
compensation. However, the members of the Commission may receive, from 
an amount appropriated to carry out this chapter or acquired by another 
authorized way--
            (1) their actual expenses related to the work of the 
        Commission;
            (2) when in a travel status outside the continental United 
        States, a per diem at the rate authorized to be paid for members 
        of the uniformed services under section 405 of title 37, United 
        States Code, instead of subsistence; and
            (3) when in a travel status in the continental United 
        States, a per diem at the rate authorized to be paid under 
        sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code, instead 
        of subsistence.

    (c) Expenses of Officers of Armed Forces Serving on Commission.--An 
officer of the Armed Forces serving as a member or as secretary of the 
Commission may be reimbursed for expenses when traveling on business of 
the Commission in the same way as civilian members of the Commission.

Sec. 2102. Employment of personnel

    (a) General.--Within the limits of an appropriation made to employ 
personnel, the American Battle Monuments Commission may employ personnel 
necessary to carry out this chapter. To ensure adequate care and 
maintenance of cemeteries, monuments, and memorials, the Commission, 
subject to the availability of appropriations, shall employ--
            (1) at least 50 individuals in the competitive service (as 
        defined in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code), of whom 
        at least 43 shall be assigned to duty in foreign countries where 
        the cemeteries, monuments, and memorials are located; and
            (2) at least 348 individuals who are citizens of the 
        countries where the cemeteries, monuments, and memorials are 
        located.

    (b) Detailed Personnel.--On request of the Commission, the heads of 
departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States 
Government may make available to the Commission their personnel and 
facilities to assist in carrying out this chapter, and may expend for 
that purpose amounts appropriated to the department, agency, and 
instrumentality. The Commission shall reimburse the department, agency, 
or instrumentality for the pay and allowances of designated personnel.
    (c) Station Allowance for Officers Assigned to the Commission.--For 
officers of the Armed Forces assigned to the Commission, the same 
station allowance shall be authorized for serving at foreign stations as 
the Secretary of the Army has authorized for officers of the Army.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1270]]

    (d) Citizenship Requirement.--An individual may be employed as the 
superintendent, or as an assistant superintendent, of a cemetery 
operated by the Commission only if the individual is a citizen of the 
United States.

Sec. 2103. Administrative

    (a) General Authority.--Subject to appropriations made to carry out 
this chapter, the American Battle Monuments Commission may--
            (1) acquire land or an interest in land in a foreign country 
        to carry out the purposes of this chapter, or an executive order 
        conferring duties and powers on the Commission, without 
        submission to the Attorney General under section 355 of the 
        Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 255);
            (2) maintain, repair, and operate motor-propelled passenger-
        carrying vehicles and other property that another department, 
        agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government 
        provides to the Commission;
            (3) establish offices in the District of Columbia and 
        elsewhere in or outside the United States;
            (4) rent office and garage space, which may be paid for in 
        advance, in foreign countries; and
            (5) procure printing, binding, engraving, lithographing, 
        photographing, and typewriting, including the publication of 
        information on United States activities, battlefields, 
        memorials, and cemeteries with respect to which the Commission 
        may exercise any duties and powers.

    (b) Disposition of Land.--Under conditions and in the manner the 
Commission decides is proper, the Commission may dispose of land or an 
interest in land in a foreign country that the Commission acquires in 
connection with its work.
    (c) Contracting Out.--Notwithstanding the requirements of existing 
laws or regulations, the Commission, under conditions the Commission 
decides are necessary and proper, may contract for work, supplies, 
materials, and equipment outside or for use outside the United States 
and engage the services of architects and other technical and 
professional personnel.
    (d) Delegation.--Under conditions the Commission may prescribe, the 
Commission may delegate to its chairman, secretary, or officials in 
charge of any of its offices any of its authority it considers necessary 
and proper.
    (e) Authority To Receive State, Local, or Private Amounts.--The 
Commission may receive State, local, or private amounts to carry out 
this chapter. The Commission shall deposit the amounts with the 
Treasurer of the United States. The Treasurer shall keep the amounts in 
separate accounts and shall disburse the amounts on vouchers approved by 
the chairman.
    (f ) Limitation on Use of Contributions.--The Commission may not 
obligate, withdraw, or expend amounts received as contributions before 
March 1, 1998.
    (g) Statements to President.--The Commission shall transmit to the 
President on October 1 of each year a statement of all its financial and 
other transactions during the prior fiscal year.
    (h) Financial Statements and Audits.--(1) The Commission shall have 
a system of financial controls to enable the Commission to comply with 
the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection and with section 
2106(d)(4) of this title.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1271]]

    (2) The Commission shall--
            (A) by March 1 of each year (beginning with 1998)--
                    (i) prepare a financial statement which covers all 
                accounts and associated activities of the Commission for 
                the prior fiscal year and is consistent with the 
                requirements of section 3515 of title 31, United States 
                Code; and
                    (ii) submit the financial statement, together with a 
                narrative summary, to the Committees on Veterans' 
                Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives; and
            (B) obtain an audit by the Comptroller General of each 
        financial statement prepared under subparagraph (A) of this 
        paragraph, which shall be conducted in accordance with 
        applicable generally accepted government auditing standards and 
        shall be in lieu of any audit otherwise required by law.

    (i) Disposition of Records and Archives.--When no longer required by 
the Commission, the records and archives of the Commission shall be 
deposited with the National Archives in accordance with section 2107 of 
title 44, United States Code.
    ( j) Seal.--The Commission shall have a seal that shall be 
judicially noticed.
    (k) Disbursements Outside Continental United States.--Disbursements 
for expenditures outside the continental United States may be made by a 
special disbursing agent designated by the Commission under regulations 
it prescribes.

Sec. 2104. Military cemeteries in foreign countries

    When, as a result of combat operations, the Armed Forces establish 
military cemeteries in zones of operations outside the United States and 
the territories and possessions of the United States, the American 
Battle Monuments Commission and the Secretary of the Army, immediately 
on the cessation of hostilities, shall decide which of the cemeteries 
will become permanent cemeteries or, if they decide it is desirable, 
shall select new sites for the cemeteries at any other location. The 
Commission is solely responsible for the design and construction of the 
permanent cemeteries, and of all buildings, plantings, headstones, and 
other permanent improvements incidental to the cemeteries, except that--
            (1) the Armed Forces are responsible for maintaining the 
        permanent cemeteries until the Commission declares its readiness 
        to assume the authorized administrative duties and 
        powers;
            (2) all construction undertaken by the Armed Forces in 
        establishing and maintaining the cemetery prior to its transfer 
        to the Commission shall be nonpermanent;
            (3) burials and reburials by the Armed Forces shall be 
        carried out in accordance with plans prepared by the Commission; 
        and
            (4) the Armed Forces have the right to re-enter a cemetery 
        transferred to the Commission to exhume or re-inter a body if 
        they decide it is necessary.

Sec. 2105. Monuments built by the United States Government

    (a) Memorials.--The American Battle Monuments Commission shall 
prepare plans and estimates to build suitable memorials commemorating 
the service of American Armed Forces, and shall build and maintain 
memorials in the United States and, as the

[[Page 112 STAT. 1272]]

Commission decides, at any place outside the United States where the 
Armed Forces have served since April 6, 1917.
    (b) Architecture and Art.--The Commission shall build and maintain 
works of architecture and art in United States cemeteries located 
outside the United States and the territories and possessions of the 
United States that are permanent cemeteries. The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall maintain works of architecture and art built by the 
Commission in the National Cemetery System, as described in section 
2400(b) of title 38.
    (c) Control and Supervision of Materials, Design, and Building.--(1) 
The Commission shall control the materials and design and prescribe 
regulations for, and supervise the building of, all memorial monuments 
and buildings in United States cemeteries located outside the United 
States and the territories and possessions of the United States.
    (2) The Commission shall control the design and prescribe 
regulations for the building of all memorial monuments and buildings 
commemorating the service of American Armed Forces that are built in a 
foreign country or political division of the foreign country that 
authorizes the Commission to carry out those duties and powers.
    (d) Approval by National Commission of Fine Arts.--A design for a 
memorial must be approved by the National Commission of Fine Arts before 
the Commission can accept it.

Sec. 2106. War memorials not built by the United States Government

    (a) Cooperation With Others.--The American Battle Monuments 
Commission may cooperate with citizens of the United States, States, 
municipalities, or associations desiring to build war memorials outside 
the continental limits of the United States in the way the Commission 
decides. An administrative agency of the United States Government may 
give assistance to build the memorial only if a plan for the memorial 
has been approved under this chapter.
    (b) Control, Administration, and Maintenance of War Memorials.--(1) 
The Commission may assume responsibility for the control, 
administration, and maintenance of any war memorial built outside the 
United States by a citizen of the United States, a State, a political 
subdivision of a State, a governmental authority (except a department, 
agency, or instrumentality of the United States Government), a foreign 
agency, or a private association to commemorate the services of any of 
the Armed Forces in hostilities occurring since April 6, 1917, if--
            (A) the memorial is not built on the territory of the 
        applicable former enemy; and
            (B) the sponsors of the memorial consent to the Commission 
        assuming those responsibilities and transfer to the Commission 
        all their rights and interests in the memorial.

    (2) If reasonable effort fails to locate the sponsors of a memorial, 
the Commission may assume responsibility for the memorial under this 
subsection by agreement with the appropriate foreign authorities. A 
decision of the Commission to assume responsibility for a war memorial 
under this subsection is final.
    (3) Sponsors of a war memorial for which the Commission assumes 
responsibility under this subsection may transfer amounts accumulated to 
maintain and repair the memorial to the Commission for use in carrying 
out this chapter. Except as provided in

[[Page 112 STAT. 1273]]

subsection (c) of this section, the Commission shall deposit transferred 
amounts as provided in section 2103(e) of this title.
    (c) Arrangements for Repair or Long-Term Maintenance of Memorials.--
In assuming responsibility for a war memorial under subsection (b)(1) or 
(2) of this section, the Commission may arrange with the sponsors of the 
memorial to provide for repair or long-term maintenance of the memorial. 
An amount transferred to the Commission for the purpose of this 
subsection shall be deposited by the Commission in the fund established 
under subsection (d) of this section.
    (d) Fund for Arrangements for Repair or Long-Term Maintenance of 
Memorials.--(1) There is a fund in the Treasury that is available to the 
Commission for expenses of repair and long-term maintenance of memorials 
for which the Commission has made arrangements under subsection (c) of 
this section. The fund consists of--
            (A) amounts deposited into, and interest and proceeds 
        credited to, the fund under paragraph (2) of this subsection; 
        and
            (B) obligations obtained under paragraph (3) of this 
        subsection.

    (2) The Commission shall deposit into the fund the amounts that are 
accepted under subsection (c) of this section. The Secretary of the 
Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest on, and the proceeds from 
the sale or redemption of, obligations held in the fund.
    (3) The Secretary shall invest any part of the fund that the 
Commission decides is not required to meet current expenses. Each 
investment shall be made in an interest-bearing obligation of the United 
States Government, or an obligation that has its principal and interest 
guaranteed by the Government, that the Commission decides has a maturity 
suitable for the fund.
    (4) The Commission shall separately account for all amounts 
deposited in and expended from the fund for each war memorial for which 
an arrangement for repair or long-term maintenance is made under 
subsection (c) of this section.
    (e) Demolition of War Memorial Built in a Foreign 
Country and Disposition of Site.--The Commission may take necessary 
action to demolish any war memorial built outside the United States by a 
citizen of the United States, a State, a political subdivision of a 
State, a governmental authority (except a department, agency, or 
instrumentality of the United States Government), a foreign agency, or a 
private association and to dispose of the site of the memorial in a way 
the Commission decides is proper, if--
            (1) the appropriate foreign authorities agree to the 
        demolition; and
            (2)(A) the sponsor of the memorial consents to the 
        demolition; or
            (B) the memorial has fallen into disrepair and a reasonable 
        effort by the Commission has failed--
                    (i) to persuade the sponsor to maintain the memorial 
                at a standard acceptable to the Commission; or
                    (ii) to locate the sponsor.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1274]]

Sec. 2107. National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific

    With the consent of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the American 
Battle Monuments Commission may build works of architecture and art in 
the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific.

Sec. 2108. Pacific War Memorial and other historical and memorial sites 
                        on Corregidor

    (a) General.--After an agreement is made between the Government of 
the Republic of the Philippines and the United States Government, the 
American Battle Monuments Commission shall restore, operate, and 
maintain the Pacific War Memorial and other historical and memorial 
sites on Corregidor.
    (b) Personnel.--The Commission may employ necessary personnel to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Use of Other Departments, Agencies, and Instrumentalities.--
Departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States 
Government may assist the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, in 
carrying out this section.
    (d) Authority To Solicit Contributions.--To carry out this section, 
the Commission may solicit and accept private contributions and shall 
deposit the contributions in the fund established by subsection (f ) of 
this section.
    (e) Use of Private Amounts.--The Commission shall carry out this 
section with private amounts except to the extent amounts are 
appropriated under subsection (g) of this section.
    (f ) Fund.--(1) There is a fund in the Treasury that is available to 
the Commission only to carry out this section. The fund consists of--
            (A) amounts deposited into, and interest and proceeds 
        credited to, the fund under paragraph (2) of this subsection; 
        and
            (B) obligations obtained under paragraph (3) of this 
        subsection.

    (2) The Chairman of the Commission shall deposit into the fund the 
amounts that are accepted under subsection (d) of this section. The 
Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the fund the interest on, and 
the proceeds from the sale or redemption of, obligations held in the 
fund.
    (3) The Secretary shall invest any part of the fund that the 
Chairman decides is not required to meet current expenses. Each 
investment shall be made in an interest-bearing obligation of the United 
States Government, or an obligation that has its principal and interest 
guaranteed by the Government, that the Chairman decides has a maturity 
suitable for the fund.
    (4) Amounts in the fund exceeding the cost of carrying out this 
section, as decided by the Chairman, shall be deposited in the Treasury 
as miscellaneous receipts to reimburse the United States Government for 
amounts appropriated under subsection (g) of this section.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated--
            (1) $6,000,000 for site preparation, design, planning, 
        construction, and associated administrative costs for the 
        restoration of the Memorial and other historical and memorial 
        sites referred to in subsection (a) of this section; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1275]]

            (2) amounts necessary to operate and maintain the Memorial 
        and those other historical and memorial sites.

Sec. 2109. Foreign Currency Fluctuations Account

    (a) Establishment and Purpose.--There is an account in the Treasury 
known as the ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, American Battle Monuments 
Commission, Account''. The Account shall be used to provide amounts, in 
addition to amounts appropriated for salaries and expenses of the 
Commission, to pay the cost of salaries and expenses that exceeds the 
amount appropriated for salaries and expenses because of fluctuations in 
currency exchange rates of foreign countries occurring after a budget 
request for the Commission is submitted to Congress. The Account may not 
be used for any other purpose.
    (b) Increase in Permissible Obligations of Amounts.--A provision of 
law limiting the amounts the Commission may obligate in a fiscal year 
shall be increased to the extent necessary to reflect fluctuations in 
exchange rates from those used in preparing the budget submission.
    (c) Transferred Amounts.--(1) Amounts in the Account may be 
transferred to amounts appropriated for salaries and expenses of the 
Commission. Transferred amounts shall be merged with, and are available 
for the same time period as, the appropriation to which they are 
applied.
    (2) Amounts transferred from the Account may be transferred back--
            (A) if the amounts are not needed to pay obligations 
        incurred because of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of 
        foreign countries in the appropriation to which the amounts were 
        originally transferred; or
            (B) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the 
        rates or because other amounts are, or become, available to pay 
        the obligations.

    (3) Amounts transferred to an appropriation under this subsection 
may not be transferred back to the Account after the end of the 2d 
fiscal year after the fiscal year in which the appropriation was 
available for obligation.
    (d) Recording of Obligations and Fluctuations in Exchange Rates.--An 
obligation of the Commission payable in the currency of a foreign 
country may be recorded as an obligation based on exchange rates used in 
preparing a budget submission. A change reflecting fluctuations in 
exchange rates may be recorded as a disbursement is made.
    (e) Unobligated Balances.--The unobligated balance of an 
appropriation for salaries and expenses may be transferred to the 
Account not later than the end of the second fiscal year following the 
fiscal year for which the appropriation was made. The unobligated 
balance shall be merged with, and be available for the same period and 
purposes as, the Account.
    (f ) Annual Report.--The Commission each year shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on amounts transferred under 
this section.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated $3,000,000 to the Account.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1276]]

Sec. 2110. Claims against the Commission

    A claim against the American Battle Monuments Commission that is 
similar to a claim described in section 2734 of title 10, that is based 
on damage to, or loss or destruction of, property, or personal injury or 
death of an individual, and that is caused by the negligent or wrongful 
act or omission of an officer or civilian employee of the Commission 
acting within the scope of the officer's or employee's office or 
employment, may be settled, decided, and paid as provided in section 
2734 for the settlement of Army claims. However, the Secretary of the 
Army may appoint an officer or employee of the Commission to a claims 
commission or as an officer to approve settlements of claims made by the 
claims commission. All payments in settlement of a claim shall be made 
out of appropriations made to carry out this chapter.

Sec. 2111. Presidential duties and powers

    (a) Arrangements With Foreign Countries.--The President is requested 
to make the necessary arrangements with the proper authorities of the 
appropriate foreign countries to enable the American Battle Monuments 
Commission to carry out this chapter.
    (b) Transfer of Administrative Duties and Powers and Supplies, 
Material, and Equipment to Commission.--(1) The President by executive 
order may transfer to the Commission--
            (A) the same administrative duties and powers related to a 
        permanent military cemetery located outside the United States 
        and the territories and possessions of the United States that 
        were transferred to the Commission by Executive Order 6614, 
        February 26, 1934, and Executive Order 10057, May 14, 1949, as 
        amended by Executive Order 10087, December 3, 1949; and
            (B) supplies, material, and equipment located in the 
        permanent military cemetery or in a military depot overseas 
        that--
                    (i) the Department of Defense does not need; and
                    (ii) the Commission requests to carry out the duties 
                and powers specified in clause (A) of this paragraph.

    (2) After a transfer under this subsection, the Commission shall 
maintain the cemetery and all improvements in it.

Sec. 2112. Care and maintenance of Surrender Tree site

    The American Battle Monuments Commission is responsible for the care 
and maintenance of the Surrender Tree site in Santiago, Cuba.

          CHAPTER 23--UNITED STATES HOLOCAUST MEMORIAL COUNCIL

Sec.
2301.  Establishment and purposes.
2302.  Membership.
2303.  Executive Director.
2304.  Gifts, bequests, and devises of property.
2305.  Memorial museum.
2306.  Audits.
2307.  Administrative.
2308.  Annual report.
2309.  Authorization of appropriations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1277]]

Sec. 2301. Establishment and purposes

    The United States Holocaust Memorial Council is an independent 
establishment of the United States Government. The Council shall--
            (1) provide for appropriate ways for the Nation to 
        commemorate the Days of Remembrance as an annual, national, 
        civic commemoration of the Holocaust;
            (2) encourage and sponsor appropriate observances of the 
        Days of Remembrance throughout the United States;
            (3) plan, construct, and operate a permanent living memorial 
        museum to the victims of the Holocaust in cooperation with the 
        Secretary of the Interior and other departments, agencies, and 
        instrumentalities of the United States Government as provided in 
        section 2305 of this title; and
            (4) develop a plan for carrying out the recommendations of 
        the President's Commission on the Holocaust in its report to the 
        President of September 27, 1979, to the extent the 
        recommendations are not otherwise provided for in this chapter.

Sec. 2302. Membership

    (a) Composition.--(1) The United States Holocaust Memorial Council 
consists of 65 voting members and the following ex officio nonvoting 
members:
            (A) one appointed by the Secretary of the Interior.
            (B) one appointed by the Secretary of State.
            (C) one appointed by the Secretary of Education.

    (2) Of the 65 voting members--
            (A) the President of the United States appoints 55;
            (B) the Speaker of the House of Representatives appoints 
        five from among members of the House of Representatives; and
            (C) the President pro tempore of the Senate appoints five, 
        on the recommendation of the majority and minority leaders, from 
        among members of the Senate.

    (b) Terms of Office.--(1) Except as provided in this subsection, 
Council members serve for terms of 5 years.
    (2) The terms of the five members of the House of Representatives 
and the five members of the Senate appointed during a term of Congress 
expire at the end of that term of Congress.
    (c) Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.--The President of the United 
States shall appoint the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the Council 
from among the members of the Council. The Chairperson and Vice 
Chairperson serve for terms of 5 years.
    (d) Vacancies.--(1) A vacancy on the Council shall be filled in the 
same manner as the original appointment was made.
    (2) A member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring before the 
expiration of the term for which the predecessor was appointed shall be 
appointed only for the remainder of the term. A member, except a Member 
of Congress appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives or 
the President pro tempore of the Senate, may serve after the expiration 
of a term until a successor takes office.
    (3) The President of the United States fills a vacancy in the 
offices of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.
    (e) Reappointment.--A member whose term expires may be reappointed. 
The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson may be reappointed to those 
offices.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1278]]

    (f ) Pay and Expenses.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of 
this subsection, members of the Council may be paid the daily equivalent 
of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable under section 5376 of 
title 5 for each day (including traveltime) during which they perform 
duties of the Council. A member is entitled to travel expenses, 
including a per diem allowance, as provided under section 5703 of title 
5, United States Code.
    (2) Members who are full-time officers or employees of the United 
States Government or Members of Congress may not receive additional pay 
because of their service on the Council.
    (g) Associated Committees.--Subject to appointment by the 
Chairperson, an individual who is not a member of the Council may be 
designated as a member of a committee associated with the Council. The 
individual serves without cost to the Government.

Sec. 2303. Executive Director

    (a) Appointment and Pay.--The Chairperson of the United States 
Holocaust Memorial Council shall appoint an Executive Director, subject 
to confirmation by the Council. The Executive Director may be paid with 
nonappropriated funds. However, if the Executive Director is paid with 
appropriated funds, the rate of pay shall be a rate that is not more 
than the maximum rate of basic pay payable under section 5376 of title 
5, United States Code. The Executive Director serves at the pleasure of 
the Council.
    (b) Duties and Powers.--The Executive Director may--
            (1) appoint employees in the competitive service subject to 
        chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
        States Code;
            (2) appoint and fix the compensation (at a rate that is not 
        more than the maximum rate of basic pay payable under section 
        5376 of title 5, United States Code) of not more than three 
        employees, notwithstanding any other law; and
            (3) implement decisions of the Council, in the manner the 
        Council directs, and carry out other functions the Council, the 
        Executive Committee of the Council, or the Chairperson assigns.

Sec. 2304. Gifts, bequests, and devises of property

    (a) General.--The United States Holocaust Memorial Council may 
solicit, accept, own, administer, invest, and use gifts, bequests, and 
devises of property to aid or facilitate the construction, maintenance, 
and operation of the memorial museum. The property and the proceeds of 
the property shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance with the 
terms of the gift, bequest, or devise donating the property. Funds 
donated to and accepted by the Council under this section are not 
considered appropriated funds and are not subject to any requirements or 
restrictions applicable to appropriated funds.
    (b) Tax Treatment.--For the purposes of Federal income, estate, and 
gift taxes, property accepted under this section is deemed to be a gift, 
bequest, or devise to the United States Government.

Sec. 2305. Memorial museum

    (a) Transfer or Purchase of Real Property in the District of 
Columbia.--For the purpose of establishing the memorial museum, and with 
the approval of the Secretary of the Interior

[[Page 112 STAT. 1279]]

in consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and the National 
Capital Planning Commission--
            (1) a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
        States Government may transfer to the administrative 
        jurisdiction of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, 
        any real property in the District of Columbia that is under the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the department, agency, or 
        instrumentality and that the Council considers suitable for the 
        memorial museum; and
            (2) the Council may purchase, with the consent of the owner, 
        any real property within the District of Columbia that the 
        Council considers suitable for the memorial museum.

    (b) Architectural Design Approval.--The architectural design for the 
memorial museum is subject to the approval of the Secretary of the 
Interior, in consultation with the Commission of Fine Arts and the 
National Capital Planning Commission.
    (c) Insurance.--The Council shall maintain insurance on the memorial 
museum to cover the risks, in the amount, and containing the terms the 
Council considers necessary.

Sec. 2306. Audits

    When requested by Congress, the Comptroller General shall audit 
financial transactions of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, 
including those involving donated funds, under generally accepted 
auditing standards. The Council shall make available for an audit under 
this section all records, items, or property used by the Council that 
are necessary for the audit. The Council shall provide facilities for 
verifying transactions with the balances.

Sec. 2307. Administrative

    (a) Bylaws.--(1) The United States Holocaust Memorial Council shall 
adopt bylaws to carry out its functions under this chapter.
    (2) The Chairperson of the Council may waive a bylaw when the 
Chairperson decides the waiver is in the best interest of the Council. 
Immediately after waiving a bylaw, the Chairperson shall send written 
notice to every voting member of the Council. The waiver becomes final 
30 days after the notice is sent unless a majority of Council members 
disagrees in writing before the end of the 30-day period.
    (b) Quorum.--One-third of the members of the Council is a quorum. A 
vacancy in the Council does not affect its power to function.
    (c) Experts and Consultants.--The Council may procure the temporary 
or intermittent services of experts or consultants under section 3109 of 
title 5, United States Code, at rates that are not more than the daily 
equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable under section 
5376 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Contract Authority.--In accordance with applicable law, the 
Council may make contracts or other arrangements with public agencies or 
authorities and with private organizations and persons and may make 
payments necessary to carry out its functions under this chapter.
    (e) Assistance From Other United States Government Departments, 
Agencies, and Instrumentalities.--The Secretary of the Smithsonian 
Institution, the Library of Congress, and all departments, agencies, and 
instrumentalities in the executive

[[Page 112 STAT. 1280]]

branch of the United States Government may assist the Council in 
carrying out its functions under this chapter.
    (f ) Administrative Services and Support.--The Secretary of the 
Interior may provide administrative services and support to the Council 
on a reimbursable basis.

Sec. 2308. Annual report

    Each year, the Executive Director of the United States Holocaust 
Memorial Council shall submit to Congress a report on the Executive 
Director's stewardship of the authority to construct, maintain, and 
operate the memorial museum, including an accounting of all financial 
transactions involving donated funds.

Sec. 2309. Authorization of appropriations

    (a) General.--Amounts necessary to carry out this chapter are 
authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years ending 
September 30, 1997-2000. Notwithstanding any other law, necessary 
amounts are authorized to be appropriated to the Council to obtain, from 
a private insurance carrier, insurance against loss in connection with 
the memorial museum and related property and exhibits.
    (b) Use of Amounts for Construction Barred.--Amounts authorized 
under this chapter may not be used for construction.
    (c) Prior Authority Required.--Authority to make contracts and to 
make payments under this chapter, using amounts authorized to be 
appropriated under this section, are effective only to the extent, and 
in amounts, provided in advance in an appropriations law.

     CHAPTER 25--PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH 
                              DISABILITIES

Sec.
2501.  Acceptance of voluntary services and money or property.
2502.  Authorization of appropriations.

Sec. 2501. Acceptance of voluntary services and money or 
                        property

    The President's Committee on Employment of People With 
Disabilities--
            (1) notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, may accept 
        voluntary and uncompensated services; and
            (2) may accept, use, and dispose of any money or property 
        the Committee receives.

Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations

    (a) General.--Amounts necessary for the work of the President's 
Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities are authorized to be 
appropriated for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1997, to be 
expended in the manner and by agencies the President may direct.
    (b) Uses.--Amounts appropriated under this section are to be used to 
carry out the purposes of the National Disability Employment Awareness 
Month and to enable the President to provide the Committee with adequate 
personnel to assist in its activities, and otherwise to provide the 
Committee with the means of carrying out a program to promote the 
employment of individuals with disabilities, by--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1281]]

            (1) creating interest throughout the United States in the 
        rehabilitation and employment of such individuals; and
            (2) obtaining and maintaining cooperation from all public 
        and private groups in the field.

            SUBTITLE II--PATRIOTIC AND NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS

                             PART A--GENERAL

Chapter                                                             Sec.
            GENERAL                                                10101

                          PART B--ORGANIZATIONS

            AGRICULTURAL HALL OF FAME                              20101
            AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND LETTERS                   20301
            AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY                              20501
            AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LEARNED SOCIETIES                  20701
            AMERICAN EX-PRISONERS OF WAR                           20901
            AMERICAN GOLD STAR MOTHERS, INCORPORATED               21101
            AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION                        21301
            AMERICAN HOSPITAL OF PARIS                             21501
            THE AMERICAN LEGION                                    21701
            THE AMERICAN NATIONAL THEATER AND ACADEMY              21901
            THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF INTERNATIONAL LAW              22101
            AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LEAGUE                     22301
            AMERICAN WAR MOTHERS                                   22501
            AMVETS  (AMERICAN  VETERANS  OF  WORLD  WAR  II,  
                KOREA,
              AND VIETNAM)                                         22701
            ARMY AND NAVY UNION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
              ICA                                                  22901
            AVIATION HALL OF FAME                                  23101
            BIG BROTHERS--BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA                   30101
            BLINDED VETERANS ASSOCIATION                           30301
            BLUE STAR MOTHERS OF AMERICA, INC.                     30501
            BOARD FOR FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION                        30701
            BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA                                  30901
            BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA                          31101
            CATHOLIC WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMER-
              ICA, INCORPORATED                                    40101
            CIVIL AIR PATROL                                       40301
            CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR SOCIETY OF THE UNIT-
              ED STATES OF AMERICA                                 40501
            CORPORATION   FOR   THE  PROMOTION  OF  RIFLE  
                PRACTICE
              AND FIREARMS SAFETY                                  40701
            DAUGHTERS OF UNION VETERANS OF THE CIVIL WAR 1861-
              1865                                                 50101
            DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS                             50301
            82ND AIRBORNE DIVISION ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED       60101
            FLEET RESERVE ASSOCIATION                              70101
            FORMER MEMBERS OF CONGRESS                             70301
            THE FOUNDATION OF THE FEDERAL BAR ASSOCIATION          70501
            FREDERICK  DOUGLASS  MEMORIAL  AND  HISTORICAL  ASSO-
              CIATION                                              70701
            FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA                              70901
            GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS                    80101
            GIRL SCOUTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA            80301
            GOLD STAR WIVES OF AMERICA                             80501
            [RESERVED]                                             90101
            ITALIAN AMERICAN WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES    100101
            JEWISH  WAR  VETERANS  OF  THE  UNITED STATES OF AMER-
              ICA, INCORPORATED                                   110101
            JEWISH  WAR  VETERANS,   U.S.A.,  NATIONAL  MEMORIAL,  
                IN-
              CORPORATED                                          110301
            [RESERVED]                                            120101
            LADIES OF THE GRAND ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC              130101
            LEGION OF VALOR OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, IN-

[[Page 112 STAT. 1282]]

              CORPORATED                                          130301
            LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL, INCORPORATED                  130501
            MARINE CORPS LEAGUE                                   140101
            THE   MILITARY   CHAPLAINS  ASSOCIATION  OF  THE  
                UNITED
              STATES OF AMERICA                                   140301
            MILITARY   ORDER  OF  THE  PURPLE  HEART  OF  THE  
                UNITED
              STATES OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED                     140501
            MILITARY ORDER OF THE WORLD WARS                      140701
            NATIONAL ACADEMY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION             150101
            NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES                          150301
            NATIONAL   CONFERENCE   OF  STATE  SOCIETIES,  
                WASHING-
              TON, DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA                           150501
            NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CITIZENSHIP                    150701
            NATIONAL COUNCIL ON RADIATION PROTECTION AND MEAS-
              UREMENTS                                            150901
            NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED
              STATES                                              151101
            NATIONAL FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS FOUNDATION               151301
            NATIONAL FEDERATION OF MUSIC CLUBS                    151501
            NATIONAL FILM PRESERVATION FOUNDATION                 151701
            NATIONAL FUND FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION                   151901
            NATIONAL MINING HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM               152101
            NATIONAL MUSIC COUNCIL                                152301
            NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL                               152501
            NATIONAL SKI PATROL SYSTEM, INCORPORATED              152701
            NATIONAL  SOCIETY,  DAUGHTERS  OF  THE  AMERICAN  
                COLO-
              NISTS                                               152901
            THE NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMER-
              ICAN REVOLUTION                                     153101
            NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE SONS OF THE AMERICAN REVO-
              LUTION                                              153301
            NATIONAL TROPICAL BOTANICAL GARDEN                    153501
            NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF CORPS, AUXILIARY TO THE
              GRAND ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC                          153701
            THE NATIONAL YOEMEN F                                 153901
            NAVAL SEA CADET CORPS                                 154101
            NAVY CLUB OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA             154301
            NAVY WIVES CLUBS OF AMERICA                           154501
            NON COMMISSIONED OFFICERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNIT-
              ED STATES OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED                  154701
            [RESERVED]                                            160101
            PARALYZED VETERANS OF AMERICA                         170101
            PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION                    170301
            POLISH LEGION OF AMERICAN VETERANS, U.S.A.            170501
            [RESERVED]                                            180101
            RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES     190101
            RETIRED ENLISTED ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED            190301
            SOCIETY OF AMERICAN FLORISTS AND ORNAMENTAL HORTI-
              CULTURISTS                                          200101
            SONS OF UNION VETERANS OF THE CIVIL WAR               200301
            THEODORE ROOSEVELT ASSOCIATION                        210101
            369TH VETERANS' ASSOCIATION                           210301
            UNITED SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS, INCORPORATED            220101
            UNITED STATES CAPITOL HISTORICAL SOCIETY              220301
            UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE                       220501
            UNITED STATES SUBMARINE VETERANS OF WORLD WAR II      220701
            VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF THE UNITED STATES         230101
            VETERANS  OF  WORLD  WAR  I  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES  
                OF
              AMERICA, INCORPORATED                               230301
            VIETNAM VETERANS OF AMERICA, INC.                     230501
            WOMEN'S ARMY CORPS VETERANS' ASSOCIATION              240101
            [RESERVED]                                            250101
            [RESERVED]                                            260101
            [RESERVED]                                            270101

[[Page 112 STAT. 1283]]

                             PART A--GENERAL

                          CHAPTER 101--GENERAL

Sec.
10101.  Audits.
10102.  Reservation of right to amend or repeal.

Sec. 10101. Audits

    (a) General.--Except as otherwise provided, the financial statements 
of each corporation in part B of this subtitle shall be audited annually 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an 
independent certified public accountant or independent licensed public 
accountant, certified or licensed by a regulatory authority of a State 
or other political subdivision of the United States. The audit shall be 
conducted where the financial statements of the corporation normally are 
kept. The person conducting the audit shall be given access to--
            (1) all records and property owned or used by the 
        corporation necessary to facilitate the audit; and
            (2) full facilities for verifying transactions with the 
        balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents, and 
        custodians.

    (b) Report.--(1) The corporation shall submit a report of the audit 
to Congress not later than 6 months after the close of the fiscal year 
for which the audit is made. The report shall describe the scope of the 
audit and include--
            (A) statements necessary to present fairly the corporation's 
        assets, liabilities, and surplus or deficit, and an analysis of 
        the changes in those amounts during the year;
            (B) a statement in reasonable detail of the corporation's 
        income and expenses during the year including the results of any 
        trading, manufacturing, publishing, or other commercial-type 
        endeavor; and
            (C) the independent auditor's opinion of those statements.

    (2) The report may not be printed as a public document, except as 
part of proceedings authorized to be printed under section 1332 of title 
44.

Sec. 10102. Reservation of right to amend or repeal

    (a) General.--Congress reserves the right to amend or repeal the 
provisions of part B of this subtitle.
    (b) Nonapplication.--Subsection (a) of this section does not apply 
to chapters 213, 407, 801, 1403, 1503 (except section 150302(b)), 1513, 
1517, 1531, and 1539 of this title.

                          PART B--ORGANIZATIONS

                 CHAPTER 201--AGRICULTURAL HALL OF FAME

Sec.
20101.  Organization.
20102.  Purposes.
20103.  Membership.
20104.  Governing body.
20105.  Powers.
20106.  Restrictions.
20107.  Principal office.
20108.  Records and inspection.
20109.  Service of process.
20110.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
20111.  Use of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1284]]

Sec. 20101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Agricultural Hall of Fame (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 20102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to receive and maintain one or more funds and to use any 
        part of the principal or interest only for charitable, 
        scientific, literary, or educational purposes either directly or 
        by contributing to organizations authorized to carry on similar 
        activities;
            (2) to honor farmers, farm women, farm leaders, teachers, 
        scientists, inventors, governmental leaders, and other 
        individuals who have helped make this Nation great by their 
        outstanding contributions to the establishment, development, 
        advancement, or improvement of agriculture in the United States;
            (3) to perpetuate the memory of those individuals and record 
        their contributions and achievements by the erection and 
        maintenance of buildings and monuments as may be appropriate as 
        a lasting memorial;
            (4) to promote a greater sense of appreciation of the 
        dignity and importance of agriculture, historically carried out 
        through owner-operated farms, and the part it has played in 
        developing those social, economic, and spiritual values which 
        are essential in maintaining the free and democratic 
        institutions of our Republic;
            (5) to establish and maintain a library and museum for the 
        collection and preservation for posterity of agricultural tools, 
        implements, machines, vehicles, pictures, paintings, books, 
        papers, documents, data, relics, mementos, artifacts, and other 
        items relating to agriculture;
            (6) to cooperate with other organizations interested in 
        similar projects; and
            (7) to engage in other activities appropriate to carry out 
        its purposes.

Sec. 20103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Voting.--Each member given voting rights by the bylaws has one 
vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the voting 
members. The vote may be cast in the manner provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 20104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Governors.--(1) The board of governors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the members of the 
corporation, the board is responsible for the general policies and 
program of the corporation and for the control of all funds of the 
corporation.
    (2) The number of governors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the bylaws. However, the board shall have at least 15 members.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1285]]

    (3) The board may appoint committees. Each committee has the powers 
provided in the bylaws or by resolution of the board. The powers of a 
committee may include all the powers of the board.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more one vice presidents as provided in the bylaws, a secretary, 
a treasurer, one or more assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers, 
and other officers as provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 20105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 20106. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a governor, officer, 
employee, or member as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a 
political party or candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
governor, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of compensation to an officer or employee in an 
amount approved by the board of governors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
governor, officer, employee, or member. Governors who vote for or assent 
to making a loan or advance to a governor, officer, employee, or member, 
and officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly 
and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.
    (e) Contributions to Certain Organizations.--None of the principal 
or interest of a fund referred to in section 20102(1) of this title may 
be contributed to an organization if--
            (1) a substantial part of its activities is carrying on 
        propaganda or attempting to influence legislation; or
            (2) any part of its net earnings benefits a private 
        shareholder or individual.

Sec. 20107. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Kansas City, 
Kansas, or another place decided by the board of governors. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place

[[Page 112 STAT. 1286]]

where the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 20108. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        governors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of governors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 20109. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent is notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 20110. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 20111. Use of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
of the corporation remaining after the discharge of all liabilities 
shall be distributed as provided by the board of governors, but in 
compliance with the charter and bylaws.

            CHAPTER 203--AMERICAN ACADEMY OF ARTS AND LETTERS

Sec.
20301.  Organization.
20302.  Purpose.
20303.  Membership.
20304.  Powers.
20305.  Annual meeting.
20306.  Annual report.
20307.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 20301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American Academy of Arts and Letters (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation.--The corporation is declared to be 
incorporated in the District of Columbia.

Sec. 20302. Purpose

    The purpose of the corporation is to further the interests of 
literature and the fine arts.

Sec. 20303. Membership

    The corporation may have not more than 50 regular members.

Sec. 20304. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt bylaws and regulations;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1287]]

            (2) fill vacancies;
            (3) provide for the election of foreign, domestic, or 
        honorary associate members, and the division of those members 
        into classes;
            (4) receive bequests and donations of property, hold the 
        property in trust, and invest the property to carry out the 
        purpose of the corporation; and
            (5) do any other act necessary or usual for such a 
        corporation.

Sec. 20305. Annual meeting

    The corporation shall hold an annual meeting at a place in the 
United States as may be designated.

Sec. 20306. Annual report

    The corporation shall make an annual report to Congress, to be filed 
with the Librarian of Congress.

Sec. 20307. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

                 CHAPTER 205--AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY

Sec.
20501.  Organization.
20502.  Purposes.
20503.  Powers.
20504.  Cooperation with the military.
20505.  Annual meeting.
20506.  Annual report.

Sec. 20501. Organization

    American Chemical Society (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is 
a federally chartered corporation.

Sec. 20502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to encourage in the broadest and most liberal manner the 
        advancement of chemistry in all its branches;
            (2) to promote research in chemical science and industry;
            (3) to improve the qualifications and usefulness of chemists 
        through high standards of professional ethics, education, and 
        attainments;
            (4) to increase and diffuse chemical knowledge; and
            (5) by its meetings, professional contacts, reports, papers, 
        discussions, and publications, to promote scientific interests 
        and inquiry to foster public welfare and education, aid the 
        development of our country's industries, and add to the material 
        prosperity and happiness of our people.

Sec. 20503. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) fill vacancies;
            (3) provide for the election of members and the division of 
        those members into classes;
            (4) receive property, hold the property absolutely or in 
        trust, invest and manage the property, and use the property

[[Page 112 STAT. 1288]]

        and income arising from it to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation; and
            (5) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 20504. Cooperation with the military

    (a) Investigations, Examinations, Experiments, and Reports.--When 
requested by the Secretary of the Army, Air Force, or Navy, the 
corporation shall investigate, examine, experiment, and report on any 
subject in pure or applied chemistry connected with the national 
defense.
    (b) Payments.--The actual expense of those investigations, 
examinations, experiments, and reports shall be paid from amounts 
appropriated for those purposes, but the corporation may not receive 
compensation for any services performed for the United States 
Government.
    (c) Title and License.--Title to inventions and discoveries made in 
the course of those investigations, examinations, and experiments that 
the appropriate Secretary believes involve the national defense vest in 
the Government. The Government shall have unlimited license under other 
inventions and discoveries made in the course of those investigations, 
examinations, and experiments.

Sec. 20505. Annual meeting

    The corporation shall hold an annual meeting at a place in the 
United States as may from time to time be designated.

Sec. 20506. Annual report

    Not later than December 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year, including a complete statement of its receipts and 
expenditures. The report may not be printed as a public document.

           CHAPTER 207--AMERICAN COUNCIL OF LEARNED SOCIETIES

Sec.
20701.  Definition.
20702.  Organization.
20703.  Purposes.
20704.  Membership.
20705.  Governing body.
20706.  Powers.
20707.  Restrictions.
20708.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
20709.  Records and inspection.
20710.  Service of process.
20711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
20712.  Annual report.

Sec. 20701. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 20702. Organization

    American Council of Learned Societies (in this chapter, the 
``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in the District 
of Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1289]]

Sec. 20703. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) the advancement of the humanistic studies in all fields 
        of learning; and
            (2) the maintenance and strengthening of relations among the 
        national societies devoted to those studies.

Sec. 20704. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 20705. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 20706. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 20707. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 20708. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.). If the corporation does not maintain that status, the charter 
granted by this chapter expires.

Sec. 20709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1290]]

            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 20710. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 20711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 20712. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                CHAPTER 209--AMERICAN EX-PRISONERS OF WAR

Sec.
20901.  Definition.
20902.  Organization.
20903.  Purposes.
20904.  Membership.
20905.  Governing body.
20906.  Powers.
20907.  Exclusive right to name and emblem.
20908.  Restrictions.
20909.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
20910.  Records and inspection.
20911.  Service of process.
20912.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
20913.  Annual report.

Sec. 20901. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 20902. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American Ex-Prisoners of War (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in the State 
of Washington, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 20903. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) encouraging fraternity for the common good;
            (2) fostering patriotism and loyalty;
            (3) assisting widows and orphans of deceased ex-prisoners of 
        war;
            (4) assisting ex-prisoners of war who have been injured or 
        disabled as a result of their service;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1291]]

            (5) maintaining allegiance to the United States;
            (6) preserving and defending the United States from all 
        enemies; and
            (7) maintaining historical records.

Sec. 20904. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the bylaws.

Sec. 20905. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 20906. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 20907. Exclusive right to name and emblem

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use and to allow others 
to use the name ``American Ex-Prisoners of War'' and the official 
American Ex-Prisoners of War emblem or any colorable simulation of that 
emblem. This section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 20908. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board or directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 20909. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Washington.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 1292]]

Sec. 20910. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The Corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 20911. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 20912. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 20913. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

          CHAPTER 211--AMERICAN GOLD STAR MOTHERS, INCORPORATED

Sec.
21101.  Definition.
21102.  Organization.
21103.  Purposes.
21104.  Membership.
21105.  Governing body.
21106.  Powers.
21107.  Restrictions.
21108.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
21109.  Records and inspection.
21110.  Service of process.
21111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
21112.  Annual report.

Sec. 21101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 21102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American Gold Star Mothers, Incorporated (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in the District of 
Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 21103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include a continuing commitment, on a national basis, 
to--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1293]]

            (1) keep alive and develop the spirit that promoted world 
        services;
            (2) maintain the ties of fellowship born of that service, 
        and assist and further all patriotic work;
            (3) inculcate a sense of individual obligation to the 
        community, State, and Nation;
            (4) assist veterans of World War I, World War II, the Korean 
        Conflict, Vietnam, and other strategic areas and their 
        dependents in the presentation of claims to the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs, and aid in any way in their power the men and 
        women who served and died or were wounded or incapacitated 
        during hostilities;
            (5) perpetuate the memory of those whose lives were 
        sacrificed in our wars;
            (6) maintain true allegiance to the United States;
            (7) inculcate lessons of patriotism and love of country in 
        the communities in which we live;
            (8) inspire respect for the Stars and Stripes in the youth 
        of America;
            (9) extend needful assistance to all Gold Star Mothers and, 
        when possible, to their descendants; and
            (10) promote peace and good will for the United States and 
        all other Nations.

Sec. 21104. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 21105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 21106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 21107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1294]]

    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 21108. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of each State in which it is 
incorporated.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 21109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 21110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 21111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 21112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

              CHAPTER 213--AMERICAN HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

Sec.
21301.  Organization.
21302.  Purposes.
21303.  Powers.
21304.  Annual meeting.
21305.  Principal office.
21306.  Historical collections.
21307.  Annual report.

Sec. 21301. Organization

    American Historical Association (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in the District of 
Columbia.

Sec. 21302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1295]]

            (1) to promote historical studies;
            (2) to collect and preserve historical manuscripts; and
            (3) other kindred purposes in the interest of American 
        history and of history in America.

Sec. 21303. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws; and
            (2) hold property in the District of Columbia necessary to 
        carry out the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 21304. Annual meeting

    The corporation may hold its annual meeting in a place the members 
of the corporation select.

Sec. 21305. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia.

Sec. 21306. Historical collections

    The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution may allow the corporation 
to deposit its collections, manuscripts, books, pamphlets, and other 
historical material in the Smithsonian Institution or the National 
Museum on conditions and under regulations the Regents prescribe.

Sec. 21307. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution on the activities of the corporation and the 
condition of historical study in America. The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress any part of the report the Secretary decides is appropriate.

                 CHAPTER 215--AMERICAN HOSPITAL OF PARIS

Sec.
21501.  Organization.
21502.  Purpose.
21503.  Governing body.
21504.  Acquisition and management of property.
21505.  Charges for medical services.
21506.  Principal office.
21507.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 21501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American Hospital of Paris (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation.--The corporation is declared to be 
incorporated in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 21502. Purpose

    The purpose of the corporation is to maintain a hospital in the 
vicinity of Paris, France, to provide medical and surgical care to 
citizens of the United States.

Sec. 21503. Governing body

    (a) General.--(1) The board of governors is the governing body of 
the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1296]]

    (2) The board shall have at least 12 governors, divided into 3 
classes of equal numbers. One class of governors shall be elected each 
year for a term of 3 years or until their successors are elected. The 
corporation shall elect the governors at its annual meeting.
    (b) Quorum.--Five governors are a quorum for the transaction of 
business, except that a majority vote of the board is required for--
            (1) the sale or alienation of any real or personal estate of 
        the corporation; or
            (2) the leasing of real estate of the corporation for a term 
        of more than one year.

    (c) Powers.--The board may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws, as may be necessary and proper, 
        related to--
                    (A) elections and meetings;
                    (B) qualifications and duties of governors and 
                officers;
                    (C) admission and qualifications of members; and
                    (D) management and disposition of the property, 
                business, and concerns of the corporation;
            (2) conduct all business of the corporation;
            (3) fill, until the next annual election, a vacancy on the 
        board; and
            (4) appoint attending and resident physicians and surgeons, 
        agents, assistants, and attendants as may be necessary, set 
        their compensation, and discharge them.

Sec. 21504. Acquisition and management of property

    The corporation may acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer 
property, in the United States and France, to carry out the purposes of 
the corporation.

Sec. 21505. Charges for medical services

    The corporation may charge a reasonable compensation for providing 
medical and surgical services or may provide those services without 
charge. Amounts received under this section shall be used to carry out 
the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 21506. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia. However, offices may be maintained and meetings of the board 
of governors and committees may be held elsewhere.

Sec. 21507. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

                    CHAPTER 217--THE AMERICAN LEGION

Sec.
21701.  Organization.
21702.  Purposes.
21703.  Membership.
21704.  Powers.
21705.  Exclusive right to name, emblems, and badges.
21706.  Political activities.
21707.  Service of process.
21708.  Annual report.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1297]]

Sec. 21701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The American Legion (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 21702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) to promote peace and good will among the peoples of the 
        United States and all the nations of the Earth;
            (3) to preserve the memories and incidents of the 2 World 
        Wars and the other great hostilities fought to uphold democracy;
            (4) to cement the ties and comradeship born of service; and
            (5) to consecrate the efforts of its members to mutual 
        helpfulness and service to their country.

Sec. 21703. Membership

    An individual is eligible for membership in the corporation only if 
the individual--
            (1) has served in the Armed Forces of--
                    (A) the United States at any time during any period 
                from--
                          (i) April 6, 1917, through November 11, 1918;
                          (ii) December 7, 1941, through December 31, 
                      1946;
                          (iii) June 25, 1950, through January 31, 1955;
                          (iv) December 22, 1961, through May 7, 1975;
                          (v) August 24, 1982, through July 31, 1984;
                          (vi) December 20, 1989, through January 31, 
                      1990; or
                          (vii) August 2, 1990, through the date of 
                      cessation of hostilities, as decided by the United 
                      States Government; or
                    (B) a government associated with the United States 
                during a period referred to in subclause (A) of this 
                clause and was a citizen of the United States when the 
                individual entered that service; and
            (2) was honorably discharged or separated from that service 
        or continues to serve honorably after that period.

Sec. 21704. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations to carry 
        out the purposes of the corporation;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (4) establish State and territorial organizations and local 
        chapter or post organizations;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1298]]

Sec. 21705. Exclusive right to name, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its State and local subdivisions have the 
exclusive right to use the name ``The American Legion'' or ``American 
Legion''. The corporation has the exclusive right to use, manufacture, 
and control the right to manufacture, emblems and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 21706. Political activities

    The corporation shall be nonpolitical and may not promote the 
candidacy of an individual seeking public office.

Sec. 21707. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State, the name and address of an 
agent in that State on whom legal process or demands against the 
corporation may be served.

Sec. 21708. Annual report

    Not later than January 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

         CHAPTER 219--THE AMERICAN NATIONAL THEATER AND ACADEMY

Sec.
21901.  Organization.
21902.  Purposes.
21903.  Powers.
21904.  Exclusive right to name.
21905.  Restrictions.
21906.  Headquarters and meetings.
21907.  Service of process.
21908.  Annual report.

Sec. 21901. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The American National Theater and Academy (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 21902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation include--
            (1) the presentation of theatrical productions of the 
        highest type;
            (2) the stimulation of public interest in the drama as an 
        art belonging both to the theater and to literature and to be 
        enjoyed both on the stage and in the study;
            (3) the advancement of interest in the drama throughout the 
        United States by furthering the production of the best plays, 
        interpreted by the best actors at a minimum cost;
            (4) the further development of the study of drama of the 
        present and past in our universities, colleges, schools, and 
        elsewhere; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1299]]

            (5) the sponsoring, encouraging, and developing of the art 
        and technique of the theater through a school within the 
        National Academy.

Sec. 21903. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) establish and maintain offices and buildings to conduct 
        its activities;
            (4) establish State and territorial organizations and local 
        branches;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation, subject 
        to its constitution and instructions of donors;
            (6) sue and be sued; and
            (7) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 21904. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation and its State and local branches and subdivisions 
have the exclusive right to use the name ``The American National Theater 
and Academy''.

Sec. 21905. Restrictions

    (a) Profit and Stock.--The corporation shall be nonprofit and may 
not issue stock.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation shall be nonpolitical and 
nonsectarian, and may not promote the candidacy of an individual seeking 
public office.
    (c) Honorary Members.--The corporation may not have honorary 
members.

Sec. 21906. Headquarters and meetings

    The corporation may have its headquarters and hold its meetings at 
places the corporation decides are best.

Sec. 21907. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of the District of Columbia or of each State, 
territory, or possession of the United States in which its headquarters, 
branches, or subdivisions are located, the name and address of an agent 
in that jurisdiction on whom legal process or demands against the 
corporation may be served.

Sec. 21908. Annual report

    Not later than January 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year, including a complete report of its receipts and 
expenditures. The report may not be printed as a public document.

         CHAPTER 221--THE AMERICAN SOCIETY OF INTERNATIONAL LAW

Sec.
22101.  Organization.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1300]]

22102.  Purposes.
22103.  Governing body.
22104.  Powers.
22105.  Restrictions.
22106.  Principal office.
22107.  Records and inspection.
22108.  Service of process.
22109.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.

Sec. 22101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The American Society of International Law (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 22102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to foster the study of international law; and
            (2) to promote the establishment and maintenance of 
        international relations on the basis of law and justice.

Sec. 22103. Governing body

    (a) Executive Council.--(1) The executive council is the governing 
body of the corporation. However, the council is subject to the 
directions of the corporation at its annual meetings and at any other 
meeting called under the constitution, bylaws, or regulations of the 
corporation.
    (2) The council consists of a president, an honorary president, a 
number of vice presidents and honorary vice presidents as provided in 
the constitution, a secretary, a treasurer, and at least 24 additional 
individuals.
    (b) Election and Terms.--The officers of the corporation and one-
third of the other members of the council shall be elected at each 
annual meeting of the corporation. However, the constitution may 
authorize the council--
            (1) to elect the secretary and the treasurer of the 
        corporation for specified terms; and
            (2) to fill vacancies until the next annual meeting.

Sec. 22104. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations 
        for the management of its property and the regulation of its 
        affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) publish a journal and other publications;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1301]]

Sec. 22105. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not operate for profit.
    (b) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or member 
of the executive council as such may not contribute to, support, or 
assist a political party or candidate for elective public office.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
member of the corporation or an officer or member of the executive 
council, except on the dissolution or final liquidation of the 
corporation.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or member of the executive council. Members of the council who 
vote for or assent to making a loan or advance to an officer or member 
of the council, and officers who participate in making the loan or 
advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the 
amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 22106. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia. However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to 
the District of Columbia but may be conducted throughout the United 
States.

Sec. 22107. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, executive 
        council, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        executive council; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 22108. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 22109. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

             CHAPTER 223--AMERICAN SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LEAGUE

Sec.
22301.  Organization.
22302.  Purposes.
22303.  Membership.
22304.  Governing body.
22305.  Powers.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1302]]

22306.  Exclusive right to name, insignia, emblems, and badges.
22307.  Restrictions.
22308.  Principal office.
22309.  Records and inspection.
22310.  Service of process.
22311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
22312.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 22301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American Symphony Orchestra League (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 22302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to serve as a coordinating, research, and educational 
        agency and clearinghouse for symphony orchestras to help 
        strengthen the work in their local communities;
            (2) to assist in the formation of new symphony orchestras;
            (3) to encourage and recognize the work of America's 
        musicians, conductors, and composers, through suitable means; 
        and
            (4) to aid the expansion of the musical and cultural life of 
        the United States through suitable educational and service 
        activities.

Sec. 22303. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary, sustaining, or 
associate member) has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a 
meeting of the members.

Sec. 22304. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the members of the 
corporation, the board is responsible for the general policies and 
program of the corporation and for the control of contributions raised 
by the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents as provided in the constitution and bylaws, 
a secretary, a treasurer, and one or more assistant secretaries and 
assistant treasurers as provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 22305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1303]]

            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 22306. Exclusive right to name, insignia, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``American 
Symphony Orchestra League'' and distinctive insignia, emblems and 
badges, descriptive or designating marks, and words or phrases required 
to carry out the duties and powers of the corporation. This section does 
not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 22307. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved 
by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to 
making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 22308. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Charleston, West 
Virginia, or another place decided by the board of directors. However, 
the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where 
the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 22309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1304]]

Sec. 22310. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 22311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 22312. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

                    CHAPTER 225--AMERICAN WAR MOTHERS

Sec.
22501.  Organization.
22502.  Purposes.
22503.  Membership.
22504.  Powers.
22505.  Exclusive right to name.
22506.  Restrictions.
22507.  Tax-exempt status.
22508.  Meetings.
22509.  Service of process.
22510.  Annual report.

Sec. 22501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--American War Mothers (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation.--The corporation is declared to be 
incorporated in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Period of Existence.--The corporation may continue to exist 
until there are no individuals who qualify for membership.

Sec. 22502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to keep alive and develop the spirit that promoted world 
        service;
            (2) to maintain the ties of fellowship born of that service 
        and to assist and further any patriotic work;
            (3) to inculcate a sense of individual obligation to the 
        community, State, and Nation;
            (4) to work for the welfare of the Army and Navy;
            (5) to assist, in any way in their power, men and women who 
        served and were wounded or incapacitated in World War I; and
            (6) to foster and promote friendship and understanding 
        between America and the Allies in World War I.

Sec. 22503. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation is limited to women--
            (1) who are citizens of the United States; and
            (2) whose natural son or daughter, legally adopted son or 
        daughter, or stepson or stepdaughter--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1305]]

                    (A) served in the Armed Forces of the United States 
                or its allies in World War I, World War II, the Korean 
                conflict, or any subsequent war or conflict involving 
                the United States; and
                    (B) was honorably discharged from that service or 
                continues in the service.

Sec. 22504. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (5) establish State, territorial, and local subdivisions;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation, subject 
        to section 22506(b) of this title;
            (7) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out its 
        purposes.

Sec. 22505. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation and its State, territorial, and local subdivisions 
have the exclusive right to use the name ``American War Mothers''.

Sec. 22506. Restrictions

    (a) General.--The corporation shall be nonprofit, nonpolitical, 
nonsectarian, and nonpartisan, and may not promote the candidacy of an 
individual seeking public office.

    (b) Ownership and Use of Property.--The corporation may not accept, 
own, or hold, directly or indirectly, any property not reasonably 
necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 22507. Tax-exempt status

    The personal property and funds of the corporation, whether 
principal or income, so long as held or used only to carry out the 
purposes of the corporation, are exempt from taxation by the United 
States Government, the District of Columbia, and the territories and 
possessions of the United States.

Sec. 22508. Meetings

    The corporation may hold its meetings at any place the corporation 
decides.

Sec. 22509. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State, the name and address of an 
agent in that State on whom legal process or demands against the 
corporation may be served.

Sec. 22510. Annual report

    Not later than January 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1306]]

   CHAPTER 227--AMVETS (AMERICAN VETERANS OF WORLD WAR II, KOREA, AND 
                                VIETNAM)

Sec.
22701.  Organization.
22702.  Purposes.
22703.  Membership.
22704.  Governing body.
22705.  Powers.
22706.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
22707.  Restrictions.
22708.  Headquarters and principal place of business.
22709.  Records and inspection.
22710.  Service of process.
22711.  Liability for acts of officials, representatives, and agents.
22712.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 22701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--AMVETS (American Veterans of World War II, 
Korea, and Vietnam) (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 22702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to preserve for ourselves and our posterity the great 
        and basic truths and enduring principles upon which this Nation 
        was founded;
            (2) to maintain a continuing interest in the welfare and 
        rehabilitation of the disabled veterans of World War II, the 
        Korean conflict, and the Vietnam era and to establish facilities 
        for the assistance of all veterans and to represent them in 
        their claims before the Department of Veterans Affairs and other 
        organizations without charge;
            (3) to dedicate ourselves to the service and best interests 
        of the community, State, and Nation to the end that our country 
        shall be and remain forever a whole, strong, and free Nation;
            (4) to aid and encourage the abolition of prejudice, 
        ignorance, and disease;
            (5) to encourage universal exercise of the voting franchise 
        to the end that there shall be elected and maintained in public 
        office men and women who hold public office as a public trust 
        administered in the best interests of all the people;
            (6) to advocate the development and means by which all 
        Americans may become enlightened and informed citizens and thus 
        participate fully in the functions of our democracy;
            (7) to encourage and support an international organization 
        of all peace-loving nations to the end that not again shall any 
        nation be permitted to breach their national peace;
            (8) to continue to serve the best interests of our Nation in 
        peace as in war;
            (9) to develop to the utmost the human, mental, spiritual, 
        and economical resources of our Nation;
            (10) to perpetuate and preserve the friendships and 
        comradeship born on the battle front and nurtured in the common 
        experience of service to our Nation during time of war; and
            (11) to honor the memory of those men and women who gave 
        their lives that a free America and a free world might live by 
        the creation of living memorials in the form of additional 
        educational, cultural, and recreational facilities.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1307]]

Sec. 22703. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote in the conduct of official 
business at the post level.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.

Sec. 22704. Governing body

    (a) Delegates to National Conventions.--Each post may elect 
delegates to national conventions of the corporation. The delegates each 
have one vote in the conduct of business of the convention to which they 
are elected.
    (b) Executive Committee.--The executive committee of the corporation 
consists of--
            (1) one member elected to represent each department; and
            (2) the officers of the corporation as ex officio members.

    (c) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a national 
commander, seven national vice commanders, one of whom shall be a woman, 
a finance officer, an adjutant, a judge advocate, and a provost marshal.
    (2) The officers shall be elected by the delegates at the annual 
national convention.
    (d) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, or national origin.

Sec. 22705. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt bylaws and regulations for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt seals, emblems, and badges;
            (3) choose officers, representatives, and agents as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) establish State and regional organizations and local 
        posts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) publish a magazine, newspaper, and other publications 
        consistent with the purposes of the corporation;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

    (b) Powers Granted to Other Organizations.--The provisions, 
privileges, and prerogatives granted before July 24, 1947, to other 
national veterans' organizations because of their incorporation by 
Congress are granted to the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1308]]

Sec. 22706. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its State, regional, and local subdivisions have 
the exclusive right to use the name ``AMVETS (American Veterans of World 
War II, Korea, and Vietnam)'' and seals, emblems, and badges the 
corporation adopts.

Sec. 22707. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation shall operate as a not-for-profit 
corporation, exclusively for charitable, educational, patriotic, and 
civic improvement purposes.
    (b) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer of the 
corporation or member of its executive committee as such may not 
contribute to, support, or assist a political party or candidate for 
elective public office. The corporation may not carry on propaganda.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member of the corporation, except on dissolution 
or final liquidation of the corporation.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director or officer. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
or advance to a director or officer, and officers who participate in 
making the loan or advance, are jointly and severally liable to the 
corporation for the amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 22708. Headquarters and principal place of business

    The headquarters and principal place of business of the corporation 
shall be in the District of Columbia. However, the activities of the 
corporation are not confined to the District of Columbia but may be 
conducted throughout the States, territories, and possessions of the 
United States.

Sec. 22709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, executive 
        committee, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        executive committee; and
            (3) at its registered or principal office, a record of the 
        names and addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 22710. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the 
business address of the agent, is notice to or service on the 
corporation.
    (b) States.--As a condition to the exercise of any power or 
privilege granted by this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the 
secretary of state or other designated official of each State,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1309]]

the name and address of an agent in that State on whom legal process or 
demands against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 22711. Liability for acts of officials, representatives, and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officials, 
representatives, and agents acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 22712. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge or satisfactory provision for discharge of 
all liabilities shall be transferred to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to be applied to the care and comfort of disabled veterans of 
World War II, the Korean conflict, and the Vietnam era.

    CHAPTER 229--ARMY AND NAVY UNION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Sec.
22901.  Definition.
22902.  Organization.
22903.  Purposes.
22904.  Membership.
22905.  Governing body.
22906.  Powers.
22907.  Restrictions.
22908.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
22909.  Records and inspection.
22910.  Service of process.
22911.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
22912.  Annual report.

Sec. 22901. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 22902. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Army and Navy Union of the United States of 
America (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in Ohio, is 
a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 22903. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) holding true allegiance to the United States Government 
        and fidelity to its Constitution, laws, and institutions;
            (2) serving our Nation under God in peace as well as in war 
        by fostering the ideals of faith and patriotism, loyalty, 
        justice, and liberty, by inculcating in the hearts of young and 
        old, through precept and practice, the spirit of true 
        Americanism, and by participating in civic activities for the 
        good of our country and our community;
            (3) uniting in fraternal fellowship those who have served, 
        or are now serving, honorably in the Armed Forces of the United 
        States;
            (4) protecting and advancing their civic, social, and 
        economic welfare;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1310]]

            (5) aiding them in sickness and distress;
            (6) assisting in the burial and commemoration of their dead 
        and providing help for their widows and orphans; and
            (7) perpetuating the memory of patriotic deeds performed by 
        the defenders of our country.

Sec. 22904. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 22905. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 22906. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 22907. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 22908. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of Ohio.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 22909. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1311]]

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 22910. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 22911. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 22912. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                   CHAPTER 231--AVIATION HALL OF FAME

Sec.
23101.  Organization.
23102.  Purposes.
23103.  Membership.
23104.  Governing body.
23105.  Powers.
23106.  Restrictions.
23107.  Principal office.
23108.  Records and inspection.
23109.  Statement required in audit report.
23110.  Service of process.
23111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
23112.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 23101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Aviation Hall of Fame (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 23102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to receive and maintain one or more funds and to use any 
        part of the principal and income only for charitable, 
        scientific, literary, or educational purposes, either directly 
        or by contributing to organizations authorized to carry on 
        similar activities;
            (2) to honor citizens, aviation leaders, pilots, teachers, 
        scientists, engineers, inventors, governmental leaders, and 
        other individuals who have helped to make this Nation great by 
        their outstanding contributions to the establishment, 
        development, advancement, or improvement of aviation in the 
        United States;
            (3) to perpetuate the memory of those individuals and record 
        their contributions and achievements by the erection and 
        maintenance of buildings and monuments as may be appropriate as 
        a lasting memorial;
            (4) to promote a better sense of appreciation of the origins 
        and growth of aviation, especially in the United States, and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1312]]

        the part aviation has played in changing the economic, social, 
        and scientific aspects of our Nation;
            (5) to establish and maintain a library and museum for the 
        collection and preservation for posterity of the history of 
        those honored by the organization, together with a documentation 
        of their accomplishments and contributions to aviation, 
        including items such as aviation pictures, paintings, books, 
        papers, documents, scientific data, relics, mementos, artifacts, 
        and other items related to that history;
            (6) to cooperate with other recognized aviation 
        organizations actively engaged and interested in similar 
        projects; and
            (7) to engage in any other activities appropriate to carry 
        out the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 23103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Voting.--Each member given voting rights by the bylaws has one 
vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the voting 
members. The vote may be cast in the manner provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 23104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Trustees.--(1) The board of trustees is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the members of the 
corporation, the board is responsible for the general policies and 
program of the corporation and for the control of all funds of the 
corporation.
    (2) The number of trustees, their manner of selection (including the 
filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in the 
bylaws. However, the board shall have at least 18 members.
    (3) The board may appoint committees. Each committee has the powers 
provided in the bylaws or by resolution of the board. The powers of a 
committee may include all the powers of the board.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents as provided in the bylaws, a secretary, a 
treasurer, and other officers as provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the bylaws.
    (c)(1) Board of Nominations.--The board of trustees shall appoint a 
board of nominations, consisting of at least 24 members, from members of 
the corporation not concurrently serving as members of the board of 
trustees. Those individuals serve for the term provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The board of nominations shall nominate United States citizens 
or residents to be honored by the corporation and recommend those 
persons to the board of trustees for consideration as provided in the 
bylaws.

Sec. 23105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1313]]

            (3) choose officers, trustees, managers, agents, and 
        employees as the activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 23106. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a trustee, officer, 
employee, member of the board of nominations, or member of the 
corporation as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a 
political party or candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
trustee, officer, member of the board of nominations, or member of the 
corporation, as such, during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or employee in an 
amount approved by the board of trustees.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
trustee, officer, employee, member of the board of nominations, or 
member of the corporation. Trustees who vote for or assent to making 
such a loan or advance, and officers who participate in making the loan 
or advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the 
amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.
    (e) Contributions to Certain Organizations.--None of the principal 
or interest of a fund referred to in section 23102(1) of this title may 
be contributed to an organization if--
            (1) a substantial part of its activities is carrying on 
        propaganda or attempting to influence legislation; or
            (2) any part of its net earnings benefits a private 
        shareholder or individual.

Sec. 23107. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Dayton, Ohio, or 
another place decided by the board of trustees. However, the activities 
of the corporation are not confined to the place where the principal 
office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 23108. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        trustees, board of nominations, and committees having any of the 
        authority of its board of trustees; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1314]]

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 23109. Statement required in audit report

    The corporation shall include in the audit report statement required 
under section 10101(b)(1)(B) of this title a schedule of all contracts 
requiring payments greater than $10,000 and all payments of compensation 
or fees at a rate greater than $10,000 a year.

Sec. 23110. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent is notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 23111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 23112. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of trustees, but consistent with the purposes of 
the corporation and in compliance with the charter and bylaws.

            CHAPTER 301--BIG BROTHERS--BIG SISTERS OF AMERICA

Sec.
30101.  Organization.
30102.  Purposes.
30103.  Membership.
30104.  Governing body.
30105.  Powers.
30106.  Exclusive right to names, seals, emblems, and badges.
30107.  Restrictions.
30108.  Principal office.
30109.  Records and inspection.
30110.  Service of process.
30111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
30112.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 30101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Big Brothers--Big Sisters of America (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 30102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to assist individuals throughout the United States in 
        solving their social and economic problems and in their health 
        and educational and character development;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1315]]

            (2) to promote the use, by other lay and professional 
        agencies and workers, of the techniques of that assistance 
        developed by the corporation; and
            (3) to receive, invest, and disburse funds and hold property 
        for the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 30103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote on each matter submitted to a 
vote at a meeting of the members.

Sec. 30104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The powers, duties, and responsibilities of the 
board are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors is as provided in the constitution. 
Their manner of selection (including the filling of vacancies) and their 
term of office are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of 
the board of directors, a president, one or more vice presidents as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws, a secretary, and a treasurer.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 30105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 30106. Exclusive right to names, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the names ``The Big Brothers of America, Big Sisters 
International, Incorporated'', ``Big Sisters of America'', ``Big 
Brothers'', ``Big Sisters'', ``Big Brothers--Big Sisters of America'', 
and ``Big Sisters--Big Brothers'', and to use and to allow others to use 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 30107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1316]]

    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved 
by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to 
making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 30108. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, or another place decided by the board of directors. 
However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place 
where the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 30109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 30110. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 30111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 30112. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

                CHAPTER 303--BLINDED VETERANS ASSOCIATION

Sec.
30301.  Organization.
30302.  Purposes.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1317]]

30303.  Membership.
30304.  Governing body.
30305.  Powers.
30306.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
30307.  Restrictions.
30308.  Principal office.
30309.  Records and inspection.
30310.  Service of process.
30311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
30312.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 30301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Blinded Veterans Association (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 30302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to operate as a not-for-profit corporation exclusively 
        for charitable, educational, patriotic, and civic improvement 
        purposes;
            (2) to promote the welfare of blinded veterans so that, 
        notwithstanding their disabilities, they may take their rightful 
        place in the community and work with their fellow citizens 
        toward the creation of a peaceful world;
            (3) to preserve and strengthen a spirit of fellowship among 
        blinded veterans so that they may give mutual aid and assistance 
        to one another; and
            (4) to maintain and extend the institutions of American 
        freedom and to encourage loyalty to the Constitution and laws of 
        the United States and of the States in which they reside.

Sec. 30303. Membership

    (a) General Membership.--An individual who served in the Armed 
Forces of the United States and who, in the line of duty in that 
service, sustained a substantial impairment of sight or vision as 
defined by the bylaws of the corporation is eligible for general 
membership in the corporation.
    (b) Honorary and Associate Membership.--In addition to general 
membership, the corporation shall have special classes of honorary and 
associate membership. Eligibility for, and the rights and obligations 
of, those special classes are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 30304. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The number of directors of the 
corporation shall be at least three but not more than 15. The directors 
shall be divided into a specified number of classes. Each class shall 
hold office for a definite period of years as provided in the bylaws.
    (2) A majority of the directors must be present at a meeting of 
directors to constitute a quorum. A majority vote of the directors 
present at a meeting at which there is a quorum is necessary for the 
transaction of business.
    (3) A director may be removed at any time for just and proper cause 
by a majority vote of a quorum of directors present at a meeting called 
for that purpose.
    (4) A vacancy in the office of director may be filled by a majority 
vote of a quorum of the remaining directors present at

[[Page 112 STAT. 1318]]

a meeting called for that purpose. A director elected to fill a vacancy 
serves until the next annual meeting of the corporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers of the corporation and their manner of 
election, term of office, duties, and powers are as provided in the 
bylaws.

Sec. 30305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (4) charge and collect membership dues;
            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 30306. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its authorized regional groups and other local 
subdivisions have the exclusive right to use the name ``Blinded Veterans 
Association'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 30307. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for elective public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This section does not 
prevent the payment of--
            (1) bona fide expenses of officers of the corporation in 
        amounts approved by the board of directors; or
            (2) appropriate aid to blinded veterans or their widows or 
        children in carrying out the purposes of the corporation.

    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors and officers who vote for or assent to 
making a loan to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who 
participate in making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the 
corporation for the amount of the loan until it is repaid.
    (e) Immunity From Liability.--Members and private individuals are 
not liable for the obligations of the corporation.

Sec. 30308. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the board of directors.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1319]]

However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place 
where the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 30309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members, directors, and officers.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 30310. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 30311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 30312. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be transferred to 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to be applied to the care and comfort 
of blinded veterans.

             CHAPTER 305--BLUE STAR MOTHERS OF AMERICA, INC.

Sec.
30501.  Definition.
30502.  Organization.
30503.  Purposes.
30504.  Membership.
30505.  Governing body.
30506.  Powers.
30507.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
30508.  Restrictions.
30509.  Principal office.
30510.  Records and inspection.
30511.  Service of process.
30512.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
30513.  Annual report.
30514.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 30501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``Armed Forces'' includes the United 
States Army, United States Navy, United States Marines, United States 
Air Force, United States Coast Guard, National Guard, United States Army 
Reserves, United States Navy Reserves, United States Marine Reserves, 
United States Air Force Reserves, United States Coast Guard Reserves, 
United States Naval Militia, merchant marines, and armed home guards who 
have served on active duty.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1320]]

Sec. 30502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Blue Star Mothers of America, Inc. (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 30503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, educational, social, 
and for service, and include--
            (1) perpetuating the Blue Star Mothers of America, Inc., and 
        the memory of all the men and women who have served our country 
        as members of the Armed Forces;
            (2) maintaining true allegiance to the Government of the 
        United States;
            (3) educating members of the corporation and others not to 
        divulge military, naval, or other Government information;
            (4) assisting in veterans' ceremonies;
            (5) attending patriotic rallies and meetings;
            (6) fostering true democracy;
            (7) caring for unsupported mothers who gave their sons to 
        the service of the Nation;
            (8) aiding in bringing about recognition of the need for 
        permanent civilian defense in each community and the need to be 
        always alert against invasion of un-American activities;
            (9) upholding the American institutions of freedom, justice, 
        and equal rights; and
            (10) defending the United States from all enemies.

Sec. 30504. Membership

    An individual is eligible for membership in the corporation if--
            (1) she is a mother, adoptive mother, or stepmother (who has 
        given a mother's care at least since the stepchild was age 13) 
        of a son or daughter who--
                    (A) is serving in the Armed Forces; or
                    (B) has served in, or has been honorably discharged 
                from, the Armed Forces in World War II or the Korean 
                hostilities; and
            (2) she is living in the United States.

Sec. 30505. Governing body

    (a) National Convention.--(1) The national convention is the supreme 
governing authority of the corporation.
    (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected 
representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the 
corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws. However, the 
form of government of the corporation must be representative of the 
membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a 
limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not 
representative of the membership at large.
    (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the 
District of Columbia or any State, territory, or possession of the 
United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1321]]

    (b) Officers.--The officers of the corporation and their manner of 
selection, term of office, and duties are as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 30506. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 30507. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the name ``Blue Star Mothers of America, Inc.''. The 
corporation has the exclusive right to use, and to allow others to use, 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 30508. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or agent as 
such may not contribute to a political party or candidate for public 
office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member as such during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual 
necessary expenses in amounts approved by the council of administration 
of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or employee. Members of the council of administration who vote 
for or assent to making a loan or advance to an officer or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 30509. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia.

Sec. 30510. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account; and
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national conventions 
        and council of administration.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1322]]

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 30511. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process, notice, or demand for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the Mayor of the District of Columbia or another office designated by 
the Mayor. Notice to or service on the agent is notice to or service on 
the corporation.

Sec. 30512. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 30513. Annual report

    Not later than March 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
fiscal year. The report may consist of a report of the proceedings of 
the national convention. The report may not be printed as a public 
document.

Sec. 30514. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the national executive board, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

              CHAPTER 307--BOARD FOR FUNDAMENTAL EDUCATION

Sec.
30701.  Organization.
30702.  Purpose.
30703.  Membership.
30704.  Governing body.
30705.  Powers.
30706.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
30707.  Restrictions.
30708.  Principal office.
30709.  Records and inspection.
30710.  Service of process.
30711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
30712.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 30701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Board for Fundamental Education (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.

    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 30702. Purpose

    The purpose of the corporation is to foster the development of 
fundamental education through programs and projects such as--
            (1) giving citizens (children, youth, and adults) an 
        opportunity to acquire the understandings and skills necessary 
        to relate the resources of the community to the needs and 
        interests of the community;
            (2) demonstrating programs of fundamental education and 
        measuring results; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1323]]

            (3) training men and women as leaders in fundamental 
        education by providing internships and other experiences.

Sec. 30703. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote in the conduct of official 
business of the corporation.

Sec. 30704. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board shall consist of at least 15 
directors elected annually by the members.
    (b) Officers.--The officers of the corporation are a chairman of the 
board, a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, a 
treasurer, and any assistant officers designated by the board. The 
officers have the powers and shall carry out the duties provided in the 
bylaws or prescribed by the board.

Sec. 30705. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, loans, 
        scholarships, and grants to deserving students to carry out the 
        purpose of the corporation;
            (8) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purpose of the corporation.

Sec. 30706. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``Board for 
Fundamental Education'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 30707. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not engage in business for profit.
    (b) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or member as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for elective public office.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed

[[Page 112 STAT. 1324]]

to, a director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final 
liquidation of the corporation.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 30708. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in a place the 
board of directors decides is appropriate. However, the activities of 
the corporation may be conducted throughout the States, territories, and 
possessions of the United States.

Sec. 30709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) a record of the names and addresses of its members 
        entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation at any reasonable time.

Sec. 30710. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business 
address of the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.
    (b) States, Territories, and Possessions.--As a condition to the 
exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the 
corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or other designated 
official of each State, territory, or possession of the United States in 
which the corporation does business, the name and address of an agent in 
that State, territory, or possession on whom legal process or demands 
against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 30711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 30712. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be used by the 
board of directors for the purpose stated in section 30702 of this title 
or be transferred to a recognized educational foundation.

                   CHAPTER 309--BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA

Sec.
30901.  Organization.
30902.  Purposes.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1325]]

30903.  Governing body.
30904.  Powers.
30905.  Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words.
30906.  Restrictions.
30907.  Annual and special meetings.
30908.  Annual report.

Sec. 30901. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Boy Scouts of America (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic of the District of 
Columbia.
    (b) Domicile.--The domicile of the corporation is the District of 
Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 30902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to promote, through 
organization, and cooperation with other agencies, the ability of boys 
to do things for themselves and others, to train them in scoutcraft, and 
to teach them patriotism, courage, self-reliance, and kindred virtues, 
using the methods that were in common use by boy scouts on June 15, 
1916.

Sec. 30903. Governing body

    (a) Executive Board.--An executive board composed of citizens of the 
United States is the governing body of the corporation. The number, 
qualifications, and term of office of members of the board are as 
provided in the bylaws. A vacancy on the board shall be filled by a 
majority vote of the remaining members of the board.
    (b) Quorum.--The bylaws may prescribe the number of members of the 
board necessary for a quorum. That number may be less than a majority of 
the entire board.
    (c) Committees.--(1) The board, by resolution passed by a majority 
of the entire board, may designate 3 or more members of the board as an 
executive or governing committee. A majority of the committee is a 
quorum. The committee, to the extent provided in the resolution or 
bylaws, may--
            (A) exercise the powers of the executive board in managing 
        the activities of the corporation; and
            (B) authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to 
        papers that may require it.

    (2) The board, by majority vote of the entire board, may appoint 
other standing committees. The standing committees may exercise powers 
as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 30904. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws and regulations, including 
        regulations for the election of associates and successors;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) have offices and conduct its activities in the District 
        of Columbia and the States, territories, and possessions of the 
        United States;
            (4) acquire and own property as necessary to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation;
            (5) sue and be sued within the jurisdiction of the United 
        States; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1326]]

            (6) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter and 
        promote the purpose of the corporation.

    (b) Limitations on Exercising Certain Powers.--(1) The corporation 
may execute mortgages and liens on the property of the corporation only 
if approved by a two-thirds vote of the entire executive board at a 
meeting called for that purpose.
    (2) The corporation may dispose in any manner of the whole property 
of the corporation only with the written consent and affirmative vote of 
a majority of the members of the corporation.

Sec. 30905. Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use emblems, badges, 
descriptive or designating marks, and words or phrases the corporation 
adopts. This section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 30906. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not operate for pecuniary profit to 
its members.
    (b) Stocks and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

Sec. 30907. Annual and special meetings

    (a) Annual Meetings.--The corporation shall hold an annual meeting 
at a time and place as provided in the bylaws. At the meeting, the 
annual reports of the officers and executive board shall be presented, 
and members of the board shall be elected for the next year.
    (b) Special Meetings.--Special meetings of the corporation may be 
called on notice as provided in the bylaws.
    (c) Quorum.--The number of members necessary for a quorum at an 
annual or special meeting shall be prescribed in the bylaws.
    (d) Locations.--The members and the executive board may hold 
meetings and keep the seal and records of the corporation in or outside 
the District of Columbia.

Sec. 30908. Annual report

    Not later than April 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
calendar year.

               CHAPTER 311--BOYS & GIRLS CLUBS OF AMERICA

Sec.
31101.  Organization.
31102.  Purposes.
31103.  Membership.
31104.  Governing body.
31105.  Powers.
31106.  Restrictions.
31107.  Principal office.
31108.  Records and inspection.
31109.  Service of process.
31110.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
31111.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 31101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Boys & Girls Clubs of America (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1327]]

    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 31102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to promote the health, social, educational, vocational, 
        and character development of youth throughout the United States; 
        and
            (2) to receive, invest, and disburse funds and to hold 
        property for the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 31103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote on each matter submitted to a 
vote at a meeting of the members.
    (c) Benefits of Member Organizations.--Each organization that is a 
member of the corporation as provided in the constitution of the 
corporation is entitled to all the benefits of incorporation under this 
chapter. Those benefits cease immediately on termination of membership, 
whether by--
            (1) resignation from the corporation; or
            (2) termination of its membership by the board of directors 
        of the corporation as provided in the constitution.

Sec. 31104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The powers, duties, and responsibilities of the 
board are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors is as provided in the constitution of 
the corporation. Their manner of selection (including the filling of 
vacancies) and their term of office are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of 
the board of directors, a president, one or more vice presidents as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws, a secretary, a treasurer, and 
one or more assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 31105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1328]]

            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 31106. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved 
by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to 
making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 31107. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in New York, New 
York, or another place decided by the board of directors. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where the 
principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 31108. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 31109. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 31110. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1329]]

Sec. 31111. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

  CHAPTER 401--CATHOLIC WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
                              INCORPORATED

Sec.
40101.  Definition.
40102.  Organization.
40103.  Purposes.
40104.  Membership.
40105.  Governing body.
40106.  Powers.
40107.  Restrictions.
40108.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
40109.  Records and inspection.
40110.  Service of process.
40111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
40112.  Annual report.

Sec. 40101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 40102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Catholic War Veterans of the United States of 
America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), 
incorporated in New York, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 40103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include a continuing commitment, on a national basis, 
to--
            (1) preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the 
        United States and the laws of the States;
            (2) commemorate the wars, campaigns, and military actions of 
        the United States to reflect profound respect, high honor, and 
        great tribute on the glorious dead and the surviving veterans of 
        those wars, campaigns, and actions and to give all Americans a 
        greater understanding of and appreciation for the sacrifices of 
        those who participated in them for all Americans;
            (3) stimulate to the highest degree possible the interests 
        of the entire Nation in the problems of veterans, their widows, 
        and orphans;
            (4) cooperate to the fullest extent and in a harmonious 
        manner with all veterans' organizations in common projects 
        designed to serve the interests of all veterans of all wars in 
        which the United States has participated;
            (5) collate, preserve, and encourage the study of historical 
        episodes, chronicles, mementos, and events pertaining to the 
        wars, campaigns, and military actions of the United States;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1330]]

            (6) inculcate an enduring love of country, a deep and 
        abiding sense of patriotism, and a profound commitment to 
        Americanism among all the people of the United States;
            (7) encourage, among the youth of our Nation, respect for 
        our national flag, our anthem, and the traditions of America;
            (8) preserve the freedoms of all the people, national peace, 
        prosperity, tranquility, good will, the permanence of free 
        institutions, and the defense of the United States;
            (9) foster the association of veterans of the Catholic faith 
        who have served in the Armed Forces of the United States;
            (10) encourage morality in government, labor, management, 
        economic, social, fraternal, and all other phases of American 
        life;
            (11) promote the realization that the family is the basic 
        unit of society;
            (12) increase our love, honor, and service to God and to our 
        fellow man without regard to race, creed, color, or national 
        origin; and
            (13) function as a veterans' and patriotic organization as 
        authorized by the laws of the each State in which it is 
        incorporated.

Sec. 40104. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 40105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 40106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 40107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or employee in an amount approved by the 
board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 40108. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 1331]]

Sec. 40109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 40110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 40111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 40112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                      CHAPTER 403--CIVIL AIR PATROL

Sec.
40301.  Organization.
40302.  Purposes.
40303.  Membership.
40304.  Powers.
40305.  Restrictions.
40306.  Exclusive right to name, insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, 
           marks, and words.
40307.  Annual report.

Sec. 40301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Civil Air Patrol (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 40302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to--
            (1) provide an organization to--
                    (A) encourage and aid citizens of the United States 
                in contributing their efforts, services, and resources 
                in developing aviation and in maintaining air supremacy; 
                and
                    (B) encourage and develop by example the voluntary 
                contribution of private citizens to the public welfare;
            (2) provide aviation education and training especially to 
        its senior and cadet members;
            (3) encourage and foster civil aviation in local 
        communities; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1332]]

            (4) provide an organization of private citizens with 
        adequate facilities to assist in meeting local and national 
        emergencies.

Sec. 40303. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of 
the corporation.

Sec. 40304. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) establish and maintain offices in the District of 
        Columbia and the States, territories, and possessions of the 
        United States to conduct its affairs;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (5) sue and be sued; and
            (6) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 40305. Restrictions

    The corporation may not engage in business for profit or issue 
stock.

Sec. 40306. Exclusive right to name, insignia, copyrights, emblems, 
                        badges, marks, and words

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``Civil Air 
Patrol'' and all insignia, copyrights, emblems, badges, descriptive or 
designating marks, words, and phrases the corporation adopts. This 
section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 40307. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year.

 CHAPTER 405--CONGRESSIONAL MEDAL OF HONOR SOCIETY OF THE UNITED STATES 
                               OF AMERICA

Sec.
40501.  Organization.
40502.  Purposes.
40503.  Membership.
40504.  Governing body.
40505.  Powers.
40506.  Restrictions.
40507.  Principal office.
40508.  Records and inspection.
40509.  Service of process.
40510.  Liability.
40511.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 40501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Congressional Medal of Honor Society of the 
United States of America (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1333]]

    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 40502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to form a bond of friendship and comradeship among all 
        holders of the Medal of Honor as presented by Congress;
            (2) to protect, uphold, and preserve the dignity and honor 
        of the medal at all times and on all occasions;
            (3) to protect the name of the medal and individual holders 
        of the medal from exploitation;
            (4) to provide appropriate aid to all persons to whom the 
        medal has been awarded, their widows, or their children;
            (5) to serve our country in peace as in war;
            (6) to inspire and stimulate our youth to become worthy 
        citizens of our country; and
            (7) to foster and perpetuate Americanism.

Sec. 40503. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--An individual who has been awarded the Medal of 
Honor as presented by Congress is eligible for membership in the 
corporation. An honorary membership may not be granted.

    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote on each matter submitted to a 
vote at a meeting of the members. The vote may be cast in person or by 
proxy.

Sec. 40504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board may exercise, or provide for the 
exercise of, the powers of the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of election (including the 
filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in the 
bylaws. However, the board shall have at least 9 directors.
    (3) The board shall meet at least annually. Each director has one 
vote on matters decided by the board.
    (4) The president of the corporation is the chairman of the board.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
an executive vice president, a secretary, a treasurer, and 6 regional 
vice presidents as provided in the bylaws. The offices of secretary and 
treasurer may be combined and held by the same individual, but an 
individual holding those combined offices has only one vote as a 
director.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, duties, and powers of 
the officers are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 40505. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (4) charge and collect membership dues;
            (5) make contracts;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1334]]

            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 40506. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of--
            (1) expenses of officers of the corporation in amounts 
        approved by the board of directors; or
            (2) appropriate aid to individuals to whom the Medal of 
        Honor has been awarded, their widows, or their children, to 
        carry out the purposes of the corporation.

    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors and officers who vote for or assent to 
making a loan to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who 
participate in making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the 
corporation for the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 40507. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the board of directors. However, 
the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where 
the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 40508. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 40509. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice

[[Page 112 STAT. 1335]]

to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the 
agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 40510. Liability

    (a) Liability of Corporation.--The corporation is liable for the 
acts of its officers and agents acting within the scope of their 
authority.
    (b) Immunity of Individuals.--A member or private individual is not 
liable for the obligations of the corporation.

Sec. 40511. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the bylaws.

    CHAPTER 407--CORPORATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF RIFLE PRACTICE AND 
                             FIREARMS SAFETY

                        SUBCHAPTER I--CORPORATION

Sec.
40701.  Organization.
40702.  Governing body.
40703.  Powers.
40704.  Restrictions.
40705.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
40706.  Distribution of assets on dissolution.
40707.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

              SUBCHAPTER II--CIVILIAN MARKSMANSHIP PROGRAM

40721.  Responsibility of corporation.
40722.  Functions.
40723.  Eligibility for participation.
40724.  Priority of youth participation.
40725.  National Matches and small-arms firing school.
40726.  Allowances for junior competitors.
40727.  Army support.
40728.  Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts.
40729.  Reservation of firearms, ammunition, and parts.
40730.  Surplus property.
40731.  Issuance or loan of firearms and supplies.
40732.  Sale of firearms and supplies.
40733.  Applicability of other law.

                        SUBCHAPTER I--CORPORATION

Sec. 40701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle 
Practice and Firearms Safety (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Non-Governmental Status.--The corporation is a private 
corporation, not a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government. An officer or employee of the corporation is not an 
officer or employee of the Government.

Sec. 40702. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board of directors may adopt bylaws, 
policies, and procedures for the corporation and may take any other 
action that it considers necessary for the management and operation of 
the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1336]]

    (2) The board shall have at least 9 directors.
    (3) The term of office of a director is 2 years. A director may be 
reappointed.
    (4) A vacancy on the board of directors shall be filled by a 
majority vote of the remaining directors.
    (b) Director of Civilian Marksmanship.--(1) The board of directors 
shall appoint the Director of Civilian Marksmanship.
    (2) The Director is responsible for--
            (A) the daily operation of the corporation; and
            (B) the duties of the corporation under subchapter II of 
        this chapter.

Sec. 40703. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt, use, and alter a corporate seal, which shall be 
        judicially noticed;
            (2) make contracts;
            (3) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the activities of the 
        corporation;
            (4) incur and pay obligations;
            (5) charge fees to cover the corporation's costs in carrying 
        out the Civilian Marksmanship Program; and
            (6) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        activities of the corporation.

Sec. 40704. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not operate for profit.
    (b) Use of Amounts Collected.--Amounts collected under section 
40703(3) and (5) of this title, including proceeds from the sale of 
firearms, ammunition, repair parts, and other supplies, may be used only 
to support the Civilian Marksmanship Program.

Sec. 40705. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall be operated in a manner and for purposes that 
qualify the corporation for exemption from taxation under section 501(a) 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(a)) as an 
organization described in section 501(c)(3) of that Code (26 U.S.C. 
501(c)(3)).

Sec. 40706. Distribution of assets on dissolution

    (a) Secretary of the Army.--On dissolution of the corporation, title 
to the following items, and the right to possess the items, vest in the 
Secretary of the Army--
            (1) firearms stored at Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, 
        Anniston, Alabama on the date of dissolution.
            (2) M-16 rifles under control of the corporation.
            (3) trophies received from the National Board for the 
        Promotion of Rifle Practice through the date of dissolution.

    (b) Tax-Exempt Organizations.--(1) On dissolution of the 
corporation, an asset not described in subsection (a) of this section 
may be distributed to an organization that--
            (A) is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(a)) as an 
        organization described in section 501(c)(3) of that Code (26 
        U.S.C. 501(c)(3)); and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1337]]

            (B) performs functions similar to the functions described in 
        section 40722 of this title.

    (2) An asset distributed under this subsection may not be 
distributed to an individual.
    (c) Treasury.--On dissolution of the corporation, any asset not 
distributed under subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall be sold 
and the proceeds shall be deposited in the Treasury.

Sec. 40707. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

              SUBCHAPTER II--CIVILIAN MARKSMANSHIP PROGRAM

Sec. 40721. Responsibility of corporation

    The corporation shall supervise and control the Civilian 
Marksmanship Program.

Sec. 40722. Functions

    The functions of the Civilian Marksmanship Program are--
            (1) to instruct citizens of the United States in 
        marksmanship;
            (2) to promote practice and safety in the use of firearms;
            (3) to conduct competitions in the use of firearms and to 
        award trophies, prizes, badges, and other insignia to 
        competitors;
            (4) to secure and account for firearms, ammunition, and 
        other equipment for which the corporation is responsible;
            (5) to issue, loan, or sell firearms, ammunition, repair 
        parts, and other supplies under sections 40731 and 40732 of this 
        title; and
            (6) to procure necessary supplies and services to carry out 
        the Program.

Sec. 40723. Eligibility for participation

    (a) Certification.--(1) An individual shall certify by affidavit, 
before participating in an activity sponsored or supported by the 
corporation, that the individual--
            (A) has not been convicted of a felony;
            (B) has not been convicted of a violation of section 922 of 
        title 18; and
            (C) is not a member of an organization that advocates the 
        violent overthrow of the United States Government.

    (2) The Director of Civilian Marksmanship may require an individual 
to provide certification from law enforcement agencies to verify that 
the individual has not been convicted of a felony or a violation of 
section 922 of title 18.
    (b) Ineligibility.--An individual may not participate in an activity 
sponsored or supported by the corporation if the individual--
            (1) has been convicted of a felony; or
            (2) has been convicted of a violation of section 922 of 
        title 18.

    (c) Limiting Participation.--The Director may limit participation in 
the program as necessary to ensure--
            (1) the safety of participants;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1338]]

            (2) the security of firearms, ammunition, and equipment; and
            (3) the quality of instruction in the use of firearms.

Sec. 40724. Priority of youth participation

    In carrying out the Civilian Marksmanship Program, the corporation 
shall give priority to activities that benefit firearms safety, 
training, and competition for youth and that reach as many youth 
participants as possible.

Sec. 40725. National Matches and small-arms firing school

    (a) Annual Competition.--An annual competition called the ``National 
Matches'' and consisting of rifle and pistol matches for a national 
trophy, medals, and other prizes shall be held as prescribed by the 
Secretary of the Army.
    (b) Eligible Participants.--The National Matches are open to members 
of the Armed Forces, National Guard, Reserve Officers' Training Corps, 
Air Force Reserve Officers' Training Corps, Citizens' Military Training 
Camps, Citizens' Air Training Camps, and rifle clubs, and to civilians.
    (c) Small-Arms Firing School.--A small-arms firing school shall be 
held in connection with the National Matches.
    (d) Other Competitions.--Competitions for which trophies and medals 
are provided by the National Rifle Association of America shall be held 
in connection with the National Matches.

Sec. 40726. Allowances for junior competitors

    (a) Definition.--In this section, a ``junior competitor'' is a 
competitor at the National Matches, a small-arms firing school, a 
competition in connection with the National Matches, or a special clinic 
under section 40725 of this title who is--
            (1) less than 18 years of age; or
            (2) a member of a gun club organized for the students of a 
        college or university.

    (b) Subsistence Allowance.--A junior competitor may be paid a 
subsistence allowance in an amount prescribed by the Secretary of the 
Army.
    (c) Travel Allowance.--A junior competitor may be paid a travel 
allowance in an amount prescribed by the Secretary instead of travel 
expenses and subsistence while traveling. The travel allowance for the 
return trip may be paid in advance.

Sec. 40727. Army support

    (a) Logistical Support.--The Secretary of the Army shall provide 
logistical support to the Civilian Marksmanship Program for competitions 
and other activities. The corporation shall reimburse the Secretary for 
incremental direct costs incurred in providing logistical support. The 
reimbursements shall be credited to the appropriations account of the 
Department of the Army that is charged to provide the logistical 
support.
    (b) National Matches.--(1) The National Matches may be held at 
Department of Defense facilities where the National Matches were held 
before February 10, 1996.
    (2) The Secretary shall provide, without cost to the corporation, 
members of the National Guard and Army Reserve to support the National 
Matches as part of the annual training under title 10 and title 32.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1339]]

    (c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to carry 
out this section.

Sec. 40728. Transfer of firearms, ammunition, and parts

    (a) Required Transfers.--In accordance with subsection (b) of this 
section, the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the corporation all 
firearms and ammunition that, on February 9, 1996, were under the 
control of the director of civilian marksmanship (as that position 
existed under section 4307 of title 10 on February 9, 1996), including--
            (1) all firearms on loan to affiliated clubs and State 
        associations;
            (2) all firearms in the possession of the Civilian 
        Marksmanship Support Detachment; and
            (3) all M-1 Garand and caliber .22 rimfire rifles stored at 
        Defense Distribution Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama.

    (b) Time for Transfers.--The Secretary shall transfer firearms and 
ammunition under subsection (a) of this section as and when necessary to 
enable the corporation--
            (1) to issue or loan firearms or ammunition under section 
        40731 of this title; or
            (2) to sell firearms or ammunition under section 40732 of 
        this title.

    (c) Vesting of Title in Transferred Items.--Title to an item 
transferred to the corporation under this section shall vest in the 
corporation--
            (1) on the issuance of the item to an eligible recipient 
        under section 40731 of this title; or
            (2) immediately before the corporation delivers the item to 
        a purchaser in accordance with a contract for sale of the item 
        that is authorized under section 40732 of this title.

    (d) Storage of Firearms.--Firearms stored at Defense Distribution 
Depot, Anniston, Anniston, Alabama, before February 10, 1996, and used 
for the Civilian Marksmanship Program (as that program existed under 
section 4308(e) of title 10 before February 10, 1996), shall remain at 
that facility or another storage facility designated by the Secretary, 
without cost to the corporation, until the firearms are issued, loaned, 
or sold by the corporation, or otherwise transferred to the corporation.
    (e) Discretionary Transfer of Parts.--The Secretary may transfer 
from the inventory of the Department of the Army to the corporation any 
part from a rifle designated to be demilitarized.
    (f ) Limitation on Demilitarization of M-1 Rifles.--After February 
10, 1996, the Secretary may not demilitarize an M-1 Garand rifle in the 
inventory of the Army unless the Defense Logistics Agency decides the 
rifle is unserviceable.
    (g) Cost of Transfers.--A transfer of firearms, ammunition, or parts 
to the corporation under this section shall be made without cost to the 
corporation, except that the corporation shall assume the cost of 
preparation and transportation of firearms and ammunition transferred 
under this section.

Sec. 40729. Reservation of firearms, ammunition, and parts

    (a) Reservation.--The Secretary of the Army shall reserve for the 
corporation--
            (1) firearms described in section 40728(a) of this title;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1340]]

            (2) ammunition for firearms described in 40728(a) of this 
        title;
            (3) M-16 rifles held by the Department of the Army on 
        February 10, 1996, and used to support the small-arms firing 
        school; and
            (4) parts from, and other supplies for, surplus caliber .30 
        and caliber .22 rimfire rifles.

    (b) Exception.--This section does not supersede the authority 
provided in section 1208 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public Law 101-189; 10 U.S.C. 372 note).

Sec. 40730. Surplus property

    The corporation may obtain surplus property from the Defense 
Reutilization Marketing Service to carry out the Civilian Marksmanship 
Program. A transfer of property to the corporation under this section 
shall be made without cost to the corporation.

Sec. 40731. Issuance or loan of firearms and supplies

    (a) Issuance or Loan.--For purposes of training and competition, the 
corporation may issue or loan, with or without charges to recover 
administrative costs, caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus 
rifles, air rifles, caliber .22 and .30 ammunition, repair parts, and 
other supplies necessary for activities related to the Civilian 
Marksmanship Program to--
            (1) organizations affiliated with the corporation that 
        provide firearms training to youth;
            (2) the Boy Scouts of America;
            (3) 4-H Clubs;
            (4) the Future Farmers of America; and
            (5) other youth oriented organizations.

    (b) Security of Firearms.--The corporation shall ensure adequate 
oversight and accountability for firearms issued or loaned under this 
section. The corporation shall prescribe procedures for the security of 
issued or loaned firearms in accordance with United States, State, and 
local laws.

Sec. 40732. Sale of firearms and supplies

    (a) Affiliated Organizations.--The corporation may sell, at fair 
market value, caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus rifles, air 
rifles, caliber .22 and .30 ammunition, repair parts, and other supplies 
to organizations affiliated with the corporation that provide training 
in the use of firearms.
    (b) Gun Club Members.--(1) The corporation may sell, at fair market 
value, caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 surplus rifles, ammunition, 
repair parts and other supplies necessary for target practice to a 
citizen of the United States who is over 18 years of age and who is a 
member of a gun club affiliated with the corporation.
    (2) Except as provided in section 40733 of this title, sales under 
this subsection are subject to applicable United States, State, and 
local law. In addition to any other requirement, the corporation shall 
establish procedures to obtain a criminal records check of the 
individual with United States Government and State law enforcement 
agencies.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1341]]

    (c) Limitation on Sales.--(1) The corporation may not sell a repair 
part designed to convert a firearm to fire in a fully automatic mode.
    (2) The corporation may not sell any item to an individual who has 
been convicted of--
            (A) a felony; or
            (B) a violation of section 922 of title 18.

Sec. 40733. Applicability of other law

    Section 922(a)(1)-(3) and (5) of title 18 does not apply to the 
shipment, transportation, receipt, transfer, sale, issuance, loan, or 
delivery by the corporation, of an item that the corporation is 
authorized to issue, loan, sell, or receive under this chapter.

   CHAPTER 501--DAUGHTERS OF UNION VETERANS OF THE CIVIL WAR 1861-1865

Sec.
50101.  Definition.
50102.  Organization.
50103.  Purposes.
50104.  Membership.
50105.  Governing body.
50106.  Powers.
50107.  Restrictions.
50108.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
50109.  Records and inspection.
50110.  Service of process.
50111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
50112.  Annual report.

Sec. 50101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 50102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Daughters of Union Veterans of the Civil War 
1861-1865 (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit 
corporation incorporated in Ohio, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 50103. Purposes

    (a) Provided in Articles of Incorporation.--The purposes of the 
corporation are as provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (b) Perpetuating Memories.--To perpetuate the memories of the 
fathers of the Daughters of Union Veterans of the Civil War 1861-1865, 
their loyalty to the Union, and their unselfish sacrifices for the 
preservation of the Union, the purposes of the corporation also 
include--
            (1) encouraging the preservation of historic sites and the 
        construction and preservation of monuments commemorating any 
        aspect of the Civil War;
            (2) building and maintaining a Museum of Civil War History, 
        admission to which shall be free and open to the public, in the 
        city of Springfield, Illinois, as a repository of Civil War 
        documents, artifacts, and cultural relics;
            (3) maintaining a library in connection with the Civil War 
        museum, admission to which shall be open to the public,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1342]]

        containing the official volumes of the War of the Rebellion 
        Records, Civil War genealogical files, Adjutant General reports 
        of the various States, military and biographical records and 
        accounts of the individual service of Union soldiers, sailors, 
        and marines, diaries, letters, relics, and other records;
            (4) promulgating and teaching American history, particularly 
        the history of the Civil War period, through the establishment 
        of scholarship programs at the national and State levels, the 
        presentation of American flags to youth groups and newly 
        naturalized citizens, and the sponsorship of contests of 
        educational merit;
            (5) caring for veterans of all wars through volunteer 
        programs in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers and 
        in homes and other institutions maintained by the States for the 
        welfare of American veterans; and
            (6) participating, in a spirit of cooperation and 
        reciprocity, in programs with other societies devoted to 
        American history, veterans' affairs, or community interests.

    (c) Veterans' and Patriotic Organization.--The corporation shall 
function as a veterans' and patriotic organization as authorized by the 
laws of each State in which it is incorporated.

Sec. 50104. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of 
the corporation.

Sec. 50105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 50106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 50107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1343]]

    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 50108. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.). If the corporation does not maintain that status, the charter 
granted by this chapter expires.

Sec. 50109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 50110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 50111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 50112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                 CHAPTER 503--DISABLED AMERICAN VETERANS

Sec.
50301.  Organization.
50302.  Purposes.
50303.  Membership.
50304.  Powers.
50305.  Exclusive right to name.
50306.  Restrictions.
50307.  Service of process.
50308.  Annual report.

Sec. 50301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Disabled American Veterans (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 50302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to uphold and maintain the Constitution and laws of the 
        United States;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1344]]

            (2) to realize the true American ideals and aims for which 
        those eligible to membership fought;
            (3) to advance the interests, and work for the betterment, 
        of all wounded, injured, and disabled American veterans;
            (4) to cooperate with the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
        all other public and private agencies devoted to the cause of 
        improving and advancing the condition, health, and interests of 
        all wounded, injured, and disabled veterans;
            (5) to stimulate a feeling of mutual devotion, helpfulness, 
        and comradeship among all wounded, injured, and disabled 
        veterans;
            (6) to serve our comrades, our communities, and our country; 
        and
            (7) to encourage in all people that spirit of understanding 
        which will guard against future wars.

Sec. 50303. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--An individual is eligible for membership in the 
corporation if the individual--
            (1)(A) was wounded, gassed, injured, or disabled in the line 
        of duty during time of war while in the service of the military 
        or naval forces of the United States; and
            (B) was honorably discharged or separated from that service 
        or is still in active service in the Armed Forces of the United 
        States; or
            (2)(A) was disabled while serving with any of the Armed 
        Forces of a country associated with the United States as an ally 
        during any of its war periods;
            (B) is a citizen of the United States; and
            (C) was honorably discharged.

    (b) No Honorary Memberships.--An honorary membership may not be 
granted.

Sec. 50304. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations to carry 
        out the purposes of the corporation;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (5) establish State and territorial organizations and local 
        chapter or post organizations;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) publish a newspaper and other publications devoted to 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary or proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 50305. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation and its State and local subdivisions have the 
exclusive right to use the name ``Disabled American Veterans''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1345]]

Sec. 50306. Restrictions

    The corporation shall be nonpolitical and nonsectarian, and may not 
promote the candidacy of an individual seeking public office.

Sec. 50307. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State in which a chapter is organized, 
the name and address of an agent in that State on whom legal process or 
demands against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 50308. Annual report

    Not later than January 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior fiscal year.

      CHAPTER 601--82ND AIRBORNE DIVISION ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED

Sec.
60101.  Definition.
60102.  Organization.
60103.  Purposes.
60104.  Membership.
60105.  Governing body.
60106.  Powers.
60107.  Restrictions.
60108.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
60109.  Records and inspection.
60110.  Service of process.
60111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
60112.  Annual report.

Sec. 60101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 60102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--82nd Airborne Division Association, 
Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit 
corporation incorporated in Illinois, is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 60103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) perpetuating the memory of members of the 82nd Airborne 
        Division who fought and died for this country;
            (2) furthering the common bond between retired and active 
        members of the 82nd Airborne Division;
            (3) providing educational assistance in the form of college 
        scholarships and grants to the qualified children of current and 
        former members of the 82nd Airborne Division;
            (4) promoting civic and patriotic activities; and
            (5) promoting the indispensable role of airborne defense to 
        the national security of the United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1346]]

Sec. 60104. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, or national 
origin.

Sec. 60105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, or national origin.

Sec. 60106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 60107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual and necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 60108. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 60109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1347]]

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 60110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 60111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 60112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                 CHAPTER 701--FLEET RESERVE ASSOCIATION

Sec.
70101.  Definition.
70102.  Organization.
70103.  Purposes.
70104.  Membership.
70105.  Governing body.
70106.  Powers.
70107.  Restrictions.
70108.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
70109.  Records and inspection.
70110.  Service of process.
70111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
70112.  Annual report.

Sec. 70101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 70102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Fleet Reserve Association (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in Delaware, 
is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 70103. Purposes

    (a) General.--The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its 
articles of incorporation and bylaws and include--
            (1) upholding and defending the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) aiding and maintaining an adequate naval defense for the 
        United States;
            (3) assisting the recruitment of the best personnel 
        available for the United States Navy, United States Marine 
        Corps, and United States Coast Guard;
            (4) providing for the welfare of the personnel who serve in 
        the United States Navy, United States Marine Corps, and United 
        States Coast Guard;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1348]]

            (5) continuing to loyally serve the United States Navy, 
        United States Marine Corps, and United States Coast Guard;
            (6) preserving the spirit of shipmanship by providing 
        assistance to shipmates and their families; and
            (7) instilling love of the United States and its flag, and 
        promoting soundness of mind and body, in the youth of the United 
        States.

    (b) Corporate Function.--The corporation shall function as an 
educational, patriotic, civic, historical, and research organization 
under the laws of the State of Delaware.

Sec. 70104. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national 
origin.

Sec. 70105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the bylaws and articles 
of incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the bylaws and articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for serving as a director 
or officer may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, age, or national origin.

Sec. 70106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 70107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or employee or reimbursement for actual 
necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, employee, or member.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 70108. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of Delaware.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 1349]]

Sec. 70109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 70110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 70111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 70112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                 CHAPTER 703--FORMER MEMBERS OF CONGRESS

Sec.
70301.  Definition.
70302.  Organization.
70303.  Purposes.
70304.  Membership.
70305.  Governing body.
70306.  Powers.
70307.  Restrictions.
70308.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
70309.  Records and inspection.
70310.  Service of process.
70311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
70312.  Annual report.

Sec. 70301. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 70302. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Former Members of Congress (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in the 
District of Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 70303. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include the promotion of the cause of good government 
at the national level by improving the public understanding of Congress 
as an institution and strengthening its support

[[Page 112 STAT. 1350]]

by the public. The corporation shall function as an educational, 
patriotic, civic, historical, and research organization as authorized by 
the laws of each State in which it is incorporated.

Sec. 70304. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 70305. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 70306. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 70307. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 70308. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 70309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1351]]

Sec. 70310. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 70311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 70312. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

       CHAPTER 705--THE FOUNDATION OF THE FEDERAL BAR ASSOCIATION

Sec.
70501.  Organization.
70502.  Purposes.
70503.  Membership.
70504.  Governing body.
70505.  Powers.
70506.  Exclusive right to name.
70507.  Restrictions.
70508.  Principal office.
70509.  Records and inspection.
70510.  Service of process.
70511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
70512.  Deposit of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 70501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The Foundation of the Federal Bar Association 
(in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 70502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to receive and hold property, including by gift, devise, 
        or grant, and to invest, administer, and dispose of the property 
        without restrictions applicable to trustees or trust funds;
            (2) to apply its income and any part of its principal 
        exclusively to educational, charitable, scientific, or literary 
        purposes--
                    (A) to advance the science of jurisprudence;
                    (B) to uphold high standards for the Federal 
                judiciary and attorneys representing the United States 
                Government;
                    (C) to promote and improve the administration of 
                justice, including the study of means for the improved 
                handling of the legal business of the departments, 
                agencies, and instrumentalities of the Government;
                    (D) to facilitate the cultivation and diffusion of 
                knowledge and understanding of the law and the promotion

[[Page 112 STAT. 1352]]

                of the study of the law and the science of jurisprudence 
                and research in jurisprudence, through the maintenance 
                of a law library, the establishment of seminars, 
                lectures, and studies devoted to the law, and the 
                publication of addresses, essays, treatises, reports, 
                and other literary works by students, practitioners, and 
                teachers of the law; and
                    (E) to provide for the acquisition, preservation, 
                and exhibition of rare books and documents, sculptures, 
                paintings, and other objects of art and historical 
                interest relating to the law, the courts, and the legal 
                profession; and
            (3) to do any other acts necessary or incident to the 
        accomplishment of these purposes.

Sec. 70503. Membership

    (a) Members.--The members of the corporation are--
            (1) the members of the National Council of the Federal Bar 
        Association, a nonprofit corporation incorporated in the 
        District of Columbia, during their term of membership on that 
        Council; and
            (2) other individuals the corporation provides for in the 
        bylaws or otherwise.

    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote on each matter 
submitted to a vote of the members.
    (c) Grounds for Disqualification.--An individual may not be a 
member, director, or officer of the corporation if the 
individual--
            (1) is a member of, or advocates the principles of, an 
        organization believing in, or working for, the overthrow of the 
        United States Government by force or violence; or
            (2) refuses to uphold and defend the Constitution of the 
        United States.

Sec. 70504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board may exercise, or provide for the 
exercise of, the powers of the corporation.
    (2) The board shall consist of 12 individuals elected, and subject 
to removal at any time, by a majority vote of the members of the 
corporation. The term of office of an elected director is 6 years. A 
vacancy on the board shall be filled by a majority vote of the members 
of the corporation.
    (3) The board shall meet at least annually. Each director has one 
vote on each matter decided by the board. The board may delegate its 
powers to a prudential committee subject to the direction of, and 
reporting to, the board.
    (4) The president of the corporation is the chairman of the board 
and of the prudential committee.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
a vice president, a secretary, a treasurer, a historian, and other 
officers provided for in the bylaws. The powers of the officers are as 
provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The officers shall be elected by the board of directors at its 
annual meeting. The term of office of an officer is 1 year.

Sec. 70505. Powers

    The corporation may--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1353]]

            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 70506. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``The 
Foundation of the Federal Bar Association''.

Sec. 70507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--(1) The activities, funds, income, and 
property of the corporation may not be used to carry on political 
activity or attempt to influence legislation.
    (2) The corporation or a director or officer as such may not 
contribute to, support, or assist a political party or candidate for 
elective public office.

    (c) Distribution of Income.--The income of the corporation may not 
inure to the benefit of a director, officer, member, or private 
individual.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director or officer. Directors and officers who vote for, assent to, or 
participate in making a loan or advance to a director or officer are 
jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the 
loan or advance until it is repaid.
    (e) Immunity From Liability.--Members and private individuals are 
not liable for the obligations of the corporation.

Sec. 70508. Principal office

    The corporation shall have its principal office in the District of 
Columbia, but may conduct its activities anywhere.

Sec. 70509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1354]]

Sec. 70510. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 70511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 70512. Deposit of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be deposited in 
the Treasury of the United States as a miscellaneous receipt.

   CHAPTER 707--FREDERICK DOUGLASS MEMORIAL AND HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION

Sec.
70701.  Organization.
70702.  Purposes.
70703.  Governing body.
70704.  Powers.
70705.  Management of homestead and erection of monument.
70706.  Property exempt from taxation.
70707.  Misnomer not to affect transfer of property.
70708.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 70701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Frederick Douglass Memorial and Historical 
Association (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate 
and politic in the District of Columbia.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 70702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to preserve to posterity the memory of the life and 
        character of the late Frederick Douglass; and
            (2) to collect, collate, and preserve a historical record of 
        the inception, progress, and culmination of the antislavery 
        movement in the United States, and to assemble in the homestead 
        of the late Frederick Douglass, commonly called Cedar Hill, in 
        the village of Anacostia, District of Columbia, all suitable 
        exhibits of records or things illustrative or commemorative of 
        the antislavery movement and history that are donated to, or 
        acquired by, the corporation.

Sec. 70703. Governing body

    (a) Board of Trustees.--(1) The board of trustees is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board shall exercise the powers granted to 
the corporation.
    (2) The board shall consist of at least 9 but not more than 19 
members. A vacancy on the board shall be filled by decision of the 
remaining members of the board.
    (3) The board shall adopt a seal under which all acts of the 
corporation shall be passed and authenticated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1355]]

    (b) Officers.--(1) The board shall elect officers the board 
considers necessary, including a treasurer, for the term and at the 
compensation the board decides, as provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The treasurer shall give a bond as provided in the bylaws.
    (3) The board may remove an officer, employee, or agent of the 
corporation for a cause provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 70704. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the regulation of its 
        affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) employ persons the corporation considers necessary;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property;
            (5) sue and be sued; and
            (6) do any other act to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation.

Sec. 70705. Management of homestead and erection of monument

    After the corporation has acquired any part of the property occupied 
by the late Frederick Douglass as his homestead, commonly called Cedar 
Hill, in the village of Anacostia, District of Columbia, the corporation 
may--
            (1) manage, repair, and improve the property to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation; and
            (2) erect on the property a monument to the memory of the 
        late Frederick Douglass.

Sec. 70706. Property exempt from taxation

    Any property formerly occupied by the late Frederick Douglass as his 
homestead, commonly called Cedar Hill, in the village of Anacostia, 
District of Columbia, and owned by the corporation, is exempt from 
taxation as long as the property is used for the purposes of the 
corporation.

Sec. 70707. Misnomer not to affect transfer of property

    A misnomer of the corporation does not affect any transfer of 
property to or from the corporation.

Sec. 70708. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

                 CHAPTER 709--FUTURE FARMERS OF AMERICA

Sec.
70901.  Organization.
70902.  Purposes.
70903.  Membership.
70904.  Governing body.
70905.  National officers.
70906.  Powers.
70907.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
70908.  Restrictions.
70909.  Availability of personnel, services, and facilities of 
           Department of Education.
70910.  Headquarters and principal office.
70911.  Records and inspection.
70912.  Service of process.
70913.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
70914.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1356]]

Sec. 70901. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Future Farmers of America (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 70902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to create, foster, and assist subsidiary chapters 
        composed of students and former students of vocational 
        agriculture in public schools qualifying for Federal 
        reimbursement under the Smith-Hughes Vocational Education Act 
        (20 U.S.C. 11-15, 16-28) and associations of those chapters in 
        the States, territories, and possessions of the United States;
            (2) to develop character, train for useful citizenship, and 
        foster patriotism, and thereby develop competent and aggressive 
        rural and agricultural leadership;
            (3) to create and nurture a love of country life by 
        encouraging members to improve the farm home and its 
        surroundings, to develop organized rural recreational 
        activities, and to create more interest in the intelligent 
        choice of farming occupations;
            (4) to encourage the practice of thrift;
            (5) to procure for and distribute to State associations, 
        local chapters, and members all official supplies and equipment 
        of the corporation;
            (6) to publish an official magazine and other publications 
        for the members of the corporation;
            (7) to strengthen the confidence of young men and women in 
        themselves and their work, to encourage members in the 
        development of individual farming programs, and to promote their 
        permanent establishment in farming by--
                    (A) encouraging improvement in scholarship;
                    (B) providing prizes and awards to deserving 
                students who have achieved distinction in vocational 
                agriculture, including farm mechanics activities on a 
                local, State, or national basis; and
                    (C) assisting financially, through loans or grants, 
                deserving students in all-day vocational agriculture 
                classes and young farmers under 30 years of age who were 
                former students in all-day vocational agriculture 
                classes in becoming satisfactorily established in a 
                farming occupation;
            (8) to cooperate with others, including State boards for 
        vocational education, in accomplishing these purposes; and
            (9) to engage in other activities, consistent with these 
        purposes, determined by the governing body to be for the best 
        interests of the corporation.

Sec. 70903. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Voting.--In matters of official business of a local chapter, 
each member has one vote. In matters of official business of a State 
association, each qualified delegate of a local chapter has one vote.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1357]]

Sec. 70904. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board shall exercise the powers granted to 
the corporation.
    (2) The board consists of the Secretary of Education, four staff 
members in the Department of Education, and four State supervisors of 
agriculture education. The Secretary is chairman of the board.
    (3) The term of office of the directors and the method of selecting 
the directors (except ex officio directors) are as provided in the 
bylaws.
    (4) The board shall meet at least annually at the time and place 
provided in the bylaws. The annual report of the board shall be 
presented at that meeting. Special meetings of the board may be called 
at any time by the chairman.
    (b) Governing Committee.--The board may designate the chairman of 
the board and two members of the chairman's staff as a governing 
committee. When the board is not in session, the governing committee has 
the powers of the board subject to the board's direction and may 
authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers that 
require it.

Sec. 70905. National officers

    (a) Composition.--The national officers of the corporation are a 
student president, four student vice presidents (one from each of four 
regions of the United States established in the bylaws for purposes of 
administration of the corporation), a student secretary, an executive 
secretary, a treasurer, and a national advisor.
    (b) Board of Student Officers.--The national student officers of the 
corporation comprise a board of student officers. The board of student 
officers shall advise and make recommendations to the board of directors 
about the activities and business of the corporation.
    (c) Election.--The national officers of the corporation shall be 
elected annually by a majority vote of the delegates assembled in the 
annual national convention from among qualified members of the 
corporation, except that--
            (1) the national advisor shall be the Secretary of 
        Education;
            (2) the executive secretary shall be a member of the 
        Department of Education; and
            (3) the treasurer shall be an employee or member of a State 
        agency that directs or supervises a State program of 
        agricultural education under the provisions of the Smith-Hughes 
        Vocational Education Act (20 U.S.C. 11-15, 16-28).

    (d) Vote at National Convention.--Each qualified delegate has one 
vote at the annual national convention.

Sec. 70906. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs, 
        including the establishment and maintenance of local chapters 
        and State associations of chapters;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1358]]

            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, loans, and 
        grants to deserving students and young farmers to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation;
            (9) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (10) procure for and distribute to State associations, local 
        chapters, and members all official Future Farmers of America 
        supplies and equipment;
            (11) sue and be sued; and
            (12) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 70907. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its authorized chapters and associations of 
chapters have the exclusive right to use the name ``Future Farmers of 
America'' and the initials FFA as representing an agricultural 
membership organization and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 70908. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or member as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for elective public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member, except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.
    (e) Prizes, Awards, Grants, or Loans to Student Officers and Members 
Meeting Criteria.--This section does not preclude prizes, awards, 
grants, or loans to student officers and members meeting the criteria 
established by the board of directors for selecting recipients of those 
benefits.

Sec. 70909. Availability of personnel, services, and facilities of 
                        Department of Education

    On request of the board of directors of the corporation, the 
Secretary of Education may make personnel, services, and facilities of 
the Department of Education available to administer or assist in the 
administration of the activities of the corporation. Personnel of the 
Department may not receive compensation from the corporation for their 
services, except that travel and other legitimate expenses as defined by 
the Secretary and approved by the board may be paid. The Secretary also 
may cooperate with the State

[[Page 112 STAT. 1359]]

boards for vocational education to assist in the promotion of the 
activities of the corporation.

Sec. 70910. Headquarters and principal office

    The headquarters and principal office of the corporation shall be in 
the District of Columbia. However, the activities of the corporation are 
not confined to the District of Columbia but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 70911. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) a record of the names and addresses of its members 
        entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation at any reasonable time.

Sec. 70912. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business 
address of the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.
    (b) States, Territories, and Possessions.--As a condition to the 
exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the 
Corporation shall file, with the Secretary of State or other designated 
official of each State, territory, or possession of the United States in 
which a subordinate association or chapter is organized, the name and 
address of an agent in that State, territory, or possession on whom 
legal process or demands against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 70913. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 70914. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be used by the 
board of directors for the benefit of students of vocational agriculture 
or be transferred to a recognized educational foundation.

            CHAPTER 801--GENERAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S CLUBS

Sec.
80101.  Organization.
80102.  Purposes.
80103.  Constitution and bylaws.
80104.  Property.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1360]]

80105.  Principal office and meetings.
80106.  Distribution of assets on dissolution.

Sec. 80101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--General Federation of Women's Clubs (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic of the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 80102. Purposes

    The corporation shall be organized and operated exclusively for 
charitable and educational purposes within the meaning of section 
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) and 
shall comply with the requirements for classification as an exempt 
organization under section 501(c)(3). The charitable purposes of the 
corporation shall be achieved through volunteer efforts by the members 
of the corporation, including arts programs, conservation programs, 
educational programs, homelife programs, international affairs, public 
affairs programs advancing information about public affairs, and 
community improvement programs.

Sec. 80103. Constitution and bylaws

    The corporation shall have a constitution and may adopt bylaws for 
the admission and qualifications of members, the management of its 
property, and the regulation of its affairs. The corporation may amend 
its constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 80104. Property

    The corporation may--
            (1) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation; and
            (2) issue instruments of indebtedness in relation to its 
        real property.

Sec. 80105. Principal office and meetings

    (a) Principal Office.--The principal office of the corporation shall 
be in the District of Columbia.
    (b) Meetings.--The corporation may hold its meetings at places 
outside the District of Columbia.

Sec. 80106. Distribution of assets on dissolution

    On dissolution of the corporation, the board of directors shall 
liquidate and distribute its assets to organizations qualified as exempt 
organizations under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) with purposes similar to those of the 
corporation.

        CHAPTER 803--GIRL SCOUTS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Sec.
80301.  Organization.
80302.  Purposes.
80303.  Governing body.
80304.  Powers.
80305.  Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words.
80306.  Restrictions.
80307.  Annual report.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1361]]

Sec. 80301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Girl Scouts of the United States of America 
(in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic 
of the District of Columbia.
    (b) Domicile.--The domicile of the corporation is the District of 
Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 80302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to promote the qualities of truth, loyalty, helpfulness, 
        friendliness, courtesy, purity, kindness, obedience, 
        cheerfulness, thriftiness, and kindred virtues among girls, as a 
        preparation for their responsibilities in the home and for 
        service to the community;
            (2) to direct and coordinate the Girl Scout movement in the 
        United States and territories and possessions of the United 
        States; and
            (3) to fix and maintain standards for the movement that will 
        inspire the rising generation with the highest ideals of 
        character, patriotism, conduct, and attainment.

Sec. 80303. Governing body

    (a) National Council.--(1) There shall be a National Council of Girl 
Scouts. The number, qualifications, and term of office of members of the 
Council are as provided in the constitution of the corporation, except 
that members of the Council must be citizens of the United States.
    (2) The Council may adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws and 
elect a board of directors, officers, and agents.
    (3) The constitution may prescribe the number of members of the 
Council necessary for a quorum. That number may be less than a majority 
of the entire Council.
    (4) Meetings of the Council shall be held as provided in the 
constitution to hold elections and receive reports of the officers and 
board of directors. Special meetings may be called as provided in the 
constitution.
    (b) Board of Directors.--(1) To the extent provided in the 
constitution and bylaws, the board of directors shall have the powers of 
the Council and manage the activities of the corporation between 
meetings of the Council. The number, qualifications, and term of office 
of directors are as provided in the constitution.
    (2) The constitution may prescribe the number of directors necessary 
for a quorum. That number shall be at least 20 or two-fifths of the 
entire board.
    (c) Executive and Other Committees.--The bylaws may provide for--
            (1) an executive committee to carry out the powers of the 
        board of directors between meetings of the board; and
            (2) other committees to operate under the general 
        supervision of the board of directors.

    (d) Location of Meetings and Records.--The Council and the board of 
directors may hold meetings and keep the seal and records of the 
corporation in or outside the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1362]]

Sec. 80304. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations, 
        including regulations for the election of associates and 
        successors;
            (2) adopt and alter a seal;
            (3) have offices and conduct its activities in the District 
        of Columbia and in the States, territories, and possessions of 
        the United States;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property, 
        and use any income from the property, as necessary to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (5) sue and be sued within the jurisdiction of the United 
        States; and
            (6) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter and 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 80305. Exclusive right to emblems, badges, marks, and words

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use all emblems and 
badges, descriptive or designating marks, and words or phrases the 
corporation adopts, including the badge of the Girl Scouts, 
Incorporated, referred to in the Act of August 12, 1937 (ch. 590, 50 
Stat. 623), and to authorize their use, during the life of the 
corporation, in connection with the manufacture, advertisement, and sale 
of equipment and merchandise. This section does not affect any vested 
rights.

Sec. 80306. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not operate for profit.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation shall be nonpolitical and 
nonsectarian.

Sec. 80307. Annual report

    Not later than April 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
fiscal year. The report shall be printed each year, with accompanying 
illustrations, as a separate House document of the session of the 
Congress to which the report is submitted.

                 CHAPTER 805--GOLD STAR WIVES OF AMERICA

Sec.
80501.  Definition.
80502.  Organization.
80503.  Purposes.
80504.  Membership.
80505.  Governing body.
80506.  Powers.
80507.  Restrictions.
80508.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
80509.  Records and inspection.
80510.  Service of process.
80511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
80512.  Annual report.

Sec. 80501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1363]]

Sec. 80502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Gold Star Wives of America (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), incorporated in New York, is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 80503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to operate in the public interest, as a nonpartisan and 
        nonprofit organization, solely for patriotic, charitable, 
        literary, educational, scientific, or civic improvement 
        purposes; and
            (2) the purposes stated in its articles of incorporation 
        that are not inconsistent with the purposes described in clause 
        (1) of this section.

Sec. 80504. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 80505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 80506. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in the State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 80507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to any director, 
officer, or employee.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1364]]

Sec. 80508. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 80509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 80510. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 80511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority and in accordance with the 
laws of the States in which it carries on its activities.

Sec. 80512. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior calendar year. The report 
may not be printed as a public document.

                         CHAPTER 901--[RESERVED]

    CHAPTER 1001--ITALIAN AMERICAN WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES

Sec.
100101.  Definition.
100102.  Organization.
100103.  Purposes.
100104.  Membership.
100105.  Governing body.
100106.  Powers.
100107.  Restrictions.
100108.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
100109.  Records and inspection.
100110.  Service of process.
100111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
100112.  Annual report.

Sec. 100101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 100102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Italian American War Veterans of the United 
States (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation 
incorporated in California, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts, New 
Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Rhode Island, is a federally 
chartered corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1365]]

    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 100103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) giving patriotic allegiance to the United States, 
        fidelity to the Constitution and laws of the United States, and 
        support to the security of civil liberty and permanence of free 
        institutions;
            (2) stimulating patriotism in the minds of Americans by 
        encouraging the study of the history of the United States;
            (3) ensuring the preservation and defense of the United 
        States from all enemies without reservation;
            (4) preserving the memories and records of patriotic service 
        performed by men and women who served in the Armed Forces, by 
        gathering, collating, editing, publishing, and exhibiting the 
        memorabilia, information, records, military awards, decorations, 
        and citations of those who served in the Armed Forces;
            (5) promoting peace, prosperity, and good will between the 
        peoples of the United States and Italy; and
            (6) functioning as a veterans' and patriotic organization as 
        authorized by the laws of each State in which it is 
        incorporated.

Sec. 100104. Membership

    A citizen of the United States who was honorably discharged from the 
Armed Forces is eligible for membership in the corporation. Except as 
provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 100105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 100106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 100107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement

[[Page 112 STAT. 1366]]

for actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of 
directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 100108. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 100109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 100110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 100111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 100112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

   CHAPTER 1101--JEWISH WAR VETERANS OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
                              INCORPORATED

Sec.
110101.  Definition.
110102.  Organization.
110103.  Purposes.
110104.  Membership.
110105.  Governing body.
110106.  Powers.
110107.  Restrictions.
110108.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
110109.  Records and inspection.
110110.  Service of process.
110111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
110112.  Annual report.

Sec. 110101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1367]]

Sec. 110102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Jewish War Veterans of the United States of 
America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a 
nonprofit corporation incorporated in New York, is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 110103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include a continuing commitment, on a national basis, 
to--
            (1) maintain true allegiance to the United States;
            (2) foster and perpetuate true Americanism;
            (3) combat whatever tends to impair the efficiency and 
        permanency of our free institutions;
            (4) uphold the fair name of Jews and fight their battles 
        wherever unjustly assailed;
            (5) encourage the doctrine of universal liberty, equal 
        rights, and full justice to all men;
            (6) combat the powers of bigotry and darkness wherever 
        originating and whatever the target;
            (7) preserve the spirit of comradeship by mutual helpfulness 
        to comrades and their families;
            (8) cooperate with and support existing educational 
        institutions and establish educational institutions;
            (9) foster the education of ex-servicemen and ex-
        servicewomen and members of the corporation in the ideals and 
        principles of Americanism;
            (10) instill love of country and flag;
            (11) promote sound minds and bodies in members of the 
        corporation and their youth;
            (12) preserve the memories and records of patriotic service 
        performed by the men and women of the Jewish faith and honor 
        their memory; and
            (13) shield from neglect the graves of our heroic dead.

Sec. 110104. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 110105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 110106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1368]]

Sec. 110107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 110108. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of New York.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 110109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 110110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 110111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 110112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

     CHAPTER 1103--JEWISH WAR VETERANS, U.S.A., NATIONAL MEMORIAL, 
                              INCORPORATED

Sec.
110301.  Organization.
110302.  Purposes.
110303.  Governing body.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1369]]

110304.  Powers.
110305.  Restrictions.
110306.  Principal office.
110307.  Records and inspection.
110308.  Service of process.
110309.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
110310.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 110301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Jewish War Veterans, U.S.A., National 
Memorial, Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be a nonprofit corporation incorporated and domiciled in the 
District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 110302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to maintain and conduct a national memorial and museum 
        dedicated to and commemorating the service and sacrifice by 
        Americans of the Jewish faith in the Armed Forces of the United 
        States during the period of war;
            (2) to gather, collate, edit, publish, and exhibit 
        memorabilia, information, records, military awards, decorations, 
        citations, and similar items, to preserve the memories and 
        records of patriotic service performed by men and women of the 
        Jewish faith while in the Armed Forces of the United States in 
        time of war; and
            (3) to stimulate patriotism in the minds of all Americans by 
        encouraging the study of the military and naval history of the 
        United States.

Sec. 110303. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. 
The board is responsible for the control of all funds of the 
corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, the board shall 
have at least 36 directors.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents as provided in the constitution and bylaws, 
a secretary, and a treasurer.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 110304. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) make contracts;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1370]]

            (5) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (6) sue and be sued.

Sec. 110305. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director or officer. This subsection does not prevent the payment of 
compensation to an officer or employee in an amount approved by the 
executive committee of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 110306. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia. However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to 
the District of Columbia but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 110307. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 110308. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in its headquarters in 
the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the 
headquarters of the corporation in the District of Columbia, is notice 
to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 110309. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 110310. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation. This section does not

[[Page 112 STAT. 1371]]

allow assets to be distributed to an officer or employee or to inure to 
the benefit of a private person.

                        CHAPTER 1201--[RESERVED]

         CHAPTER 1301--LADIES OF THE GRAND ARMY OF THE REPUBLIC

Sec.
130101.  Organization.
130102.  Purposes.
130103.  Membership.
130104.  Governing body.
130105.  Powers.
130106.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
130107.  Restrictions.
130108.  Principal office.
130109.  Records and inspection.
130110.  Service of process.
130111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
130112.  Annual report.
130113.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 130101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Ladies of the Grand Army of the Republic (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 130102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to perpetuate the memory of the Grand Army of the 
        Republic and of the men who saved the Union in 1861 to 1865;
            (2) to assist in every practicable way in preserving, and 
        making available for research, documents and records pertaining 
        to the Grand Army of the Republic and its members;
            (3) to cooperate in doing honor to all those who have served 
        our country patriotically in any way;
            (4) to teach patriotism, the duties of citizenship, the true 
        history of our country, and the love and honor of our flag;
            (5) to oppose every tendency or movement that would weaken 
        loyalty to, destroy, or impair our constitutional Union; and
            (6) to inculcate and broadly sustain the American principles 
        of representative government, equal rights, and impartial 
        justice for all.

Sec. 130103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--(1) Except as provided in this chapter, 
eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights, 
privileges, and designation of classes of members are as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (2) Eligibility for membership is limited to female blood relatives 
of an individual who--
            (A) served at any time during the period April 12, 1861, 
        through April 9, 1865, as a soldier or sailor in--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1372]]

                    (i) the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or 
                Revenue-Cutter Service; or
                    (ii) a State regiment that was called into active 
                service and was subject to orders of United States 
                general officers during that period; and
            (B) was honorably discharged from, or died in, that service.

    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote on each matter submitted to a 
vote at a meeting of the members.

Sec. 130104. Governing body

    (a) National Convention.--(1) The national convention is the supreme 
governing authority of the corporation.
    (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected 
representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the 
corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws. However, the 
form of government of the corporation must be representative of the 
membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a 
limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not 
representative of the membership at large.
    (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the 
District of Columbia or in any State, territory, or possession of the 
United States.
    (b) Officers.--The titles, manner of selection, term of office, and 
duties of the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of 
the corporation.

Sec. 130105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 130106. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the name ``Ladies of the Grand Army of the Republic''. The 
corporation has the exclusive right to use and to allow others to use 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 130107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or agent as 
such may not contribute to a political party or candidate for public 
office.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1373]]

    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual 
necessary expenses in amounts approved by the council of administration 
of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or employee. Members of the council of administration who vote 
for or assent to making a loan or advance to an officer or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 130108. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the corporation. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where the 
principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 130109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account; and
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national conventions 
        and council of administration.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 130110. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 130111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 130112. Annual report

    Not later than March 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
fiscal year. The report may consist of a report on the proceedings of 
the national convention. The report may not be printed as a public 
document.

Sec. 130113. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the council of administration, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1374]]

     CHAPTER 1303--LEGION OF VALOR OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
                              INCORPORATED

Sec.
130301.  Organization.
130302.  Principles and purposes.
130303.  Membership.
130304.  Governing body.
130305.  Powers.
130306.  Restrictions.
130307.  Principal office.
130308.  Records and inspection.
130309.  Service of process.
130310.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
130311.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 130301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Legion of Valor of the United States of 
America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.
    (d) References to Army and Navy Legion of Valor of the United States 
of America, Incorporated.--Any reference to the Army and Navy Legion of 
Valor of the United States of America, Incorporated, is deemed to refer 
to the Legion of Valor of the United States of America, Incorporated.

Sec. 130302. Principles and purposes

    (a) Principles.--The principles underlying the corporation are 
patriotic allegiance to the United States of America, fidelity to the 
constitution and laws of the United States, the security of civil 
liberty, and the permanence of free institutions.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to cherish the memories of the valiant deeds in arms for 
        which the Congressional Medal of Honor, the Distinguished 
        Service Cross, the Navy Cross, and the Air Force Cross are the 
        insignia;
            (2) to promote true fellowship among its members;
            (3) to advance the best interests of members of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States of America;
            (4) to extend all possible relief to needy members of the 
        corporation and their widows and children; and
            (5) to stimulate patriotism in the minds of our youth by 
        encouraging the study of the patriotic, military, and naval 
        history of our Nation.

Sec. 130303. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--An individual is eligible for active membership in 
the corporation if the individual--
            (1) is of good moral character; and
            (2) has received a Congressional Medal of Honor, a 
        Distinguished Service Cross, a Navy Cross, or an Air Force Cross 
        awarded for acts of extraordinary heroism in connection with 
        military or naval operations against an armed enemy, or for 
        heroism of a specially distinguished character, as a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States or any foreign country.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1375]]

    (b) Extension of Eligibility to Parents and Descendants.--The 
corporation may extend eligibility for membership, either active or 
associate, to parents and lineal descendants of an individual described 
in subsection (a) of this section on terms provided in its constitution 
and bylaws.
    (c) Voting.--Each member (except an associate member) has one vote 
on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the members.

Sec. 130304. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. 
The board is responsible for all funds of the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, the board shall 
have at least 10 directors.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a commander, 
a senior vice commander, a junior vice commander, a chaplain, an 
adjutant and quartermaster, a judge advocate, an inspector, a surgeon, a 
historian, and any aides-de-camp provided in the constitution and 
bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 130305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) make contracts;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (5) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (6) charge and collect membership dues; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 130306. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation. This subsection does not prevent the payment of 
compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the executive 
committee of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate

[[Page 112 STAT. 1376]]

in making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation 
for the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 130307. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in a place decided 
by the board of directors. However, the activities of the corporation 
are not confined to the place where the principal office is located but 
may be conducted throughout the States, territories, and possessions of 
the United States.

Sec. 130308. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 130309. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 130310. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 130311. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

           CHAPTER 1305--LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL, INCORPORATED

Sec.
130501.  Organization.
130502.  Purposes.
130503.  Membership.
130504.  Governing body.
130505.  Powers.
130506.  Exclusive right to name and emblems.
130507.  Restrictions.
130508.  Principal office.
130509.  Records and inspection.
130510.  Statement required in audit report.
130511.  Service of process.
130512.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
130513.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 130501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Little League Baseball, Incorporated (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), is a federally chartered corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1377]]

    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 130502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to promote, develop, supervise, and voluntarily assist 
        in all lawful ways the interest of young people who participate 
        in Little League baseball;
            (2) to help and voluntarily assist young people in 
        developing qualities of citizenship and sportsmanship; and
            (3) using the disciplines of the native American game of 
        baseball, to teach spirit and competitive will to win, physical 
        fitness through individual sacrifice, the values of team play, 
        and wholesome well being through healthy social association with 
        other youngsters under proper leadership.

Sec. 130503. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary or associate member) 
has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the 
members.

Sec. 130504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. 
The board is responsible for the control of all funds of the 
corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, the board shall 
have at least 13 directors.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of 
the board of directors, a president, a vice president, and a secretary-
treasurer. Their duties are as provided in the constitution and bylaws 
of the corporation.
    (2) The officers shall be elected annually at the annual meeting of 
the corporation.

Sec. 130505. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt, alter, and display seals, emblems, and badges;
            (4) choose directors, officers, trustees, managers, 
        employees, and agents as the activities of the corporation 
        require;
            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1378]]

            (8) charge and collect membership dues and subscription 
        fees;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary or desirable to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 130506. Exclusive right to name and emblems

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use and to allow others 
to use the names ``Little League'' and ``Little Leaguer'' and the 
official Little League emblem or any colorable simulation of that 
emblem. This section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 130507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or agent as such may not contribute to, support, or assist any political 
party or candidate for office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income and assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on 
its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent 
the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer in an amount 
approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 130508. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania, or another place decided by the board of directors. 
However, the activities of the corporation may be conducted throughout 
the world.

Sec. 130509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 130510. Statement required in audit report

    The corporation shall include in the audit report statement required 
under section 10101(b)(1)(B) of this title a schedule of all contracts 
requiring payments greater than $10,000 and all payments of compensation 
or fees at a rate greater than $10,000 a year.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1379]]

Sec. 130511. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 130512. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 130513. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but consistent with the purposes of 
the corporation and in compliance with the constitution and bylaws of 
the corporation.

                    CHAPTER 1401--MARINE CORPS LEAGUE

Sec.
140101.  Organization.
140102.  Purposes.
140103.  Powers.
140104.  Annual report.

Sec. 140101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Marine Corps League (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 140102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to preserve the traditions and to promote the interests 
        of the United States Marine Corps;
            (2) to band those who, on August 4, 1937, were serving in 
        the United States Marine Corps and those who have been honorably 
        discharged from that service together in fellowship that they 
        may effectively promote the ideals of American freedom and 
        democracy;
            (3) to fit its members for the duties of citizenship and to 
        encourage them to serve as ably as citizens as they have served 
        the Nation under arms;
            (4) to hold sacred the history and memory of the men who 
        have given their lives to the Nation;
            (5) to foster love for the principles which they have 
        supported by blood and valor since the founding of the Republic;
            (6) to maintain true allegiance to American institutions;
            (7) to create a bond of comradeship between those in service 
        and those who have returned to civil life;
            (8) to aid voluntarily and to render assistance to all 
        marines and former marines as well as to their widows and 
        orphans; and
            (9) to perpetuate the history of the United States Marine 
        Corps and by fitting acts to observe the anniversaries of 
        historical occasions of peculiar interest to marines.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1380]]

Sec. 140103. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) appoint or elect officers and agents;
            (4) choose a board of trustees, consisting of at least 5 but 
        not more than 15 individuals, to conduct the business and 
        exercise the powers of the corporation;
            (5) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) charge and collect membership dues and receive 
        contributions of money or property to be devoted to carrying out 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 140104. Annual report

    Not later than December 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

CHAPTER 1403--THE MILITARY CHAPLAINS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
                                 AMERICA

Sec.
140301.  Organization.
140302.  Purposes.
140303.  Powers.
140304.  Exclusive right to name.
140305.  Annual report.

Sec. 140301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The Military Chaplains Association of the 
United States of America (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 140302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to safeguard and strengthen the forces of faith and 
        morality of our Nation;
            (2) to perpetuate and deepen the bonds of understanding and 
        friendship of our military service;
            (3) to preserve our spiritual influence and interest in all 
        members and veterans of the Armed Forces;
            (4) to uphold the Constitution of the United States; and
            (5) to promote justice, peace, and good will.

Sec. 140303. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) make its own organization, including its constitution, 
        bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1381]]

            (3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (4) appoint or elect officers and agents;
            (5) authorize the executive committee to conduct the 
        business and exercise the powers of the corporation;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (8) charge and collect membership dues and subscription 
        fees;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 140304. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation and its area, State, and local chapters have the 
exclusive right to use the name ``The Military Chaplains Association of 
the United States of America''.

Sec. 140305. Annual report

    Not later than September 1 of each year, the corporation shall 
submit a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during 
the prior calendar year. The report may not be printed as a public 
document.

CHAPTER 1405--MILITARY ORDER OF THE PURPLE HEART OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
                          AMERICA, INCORPORATED

Sec.
140501.  Organization.
140502.  Principles and purposes.
140503.  Membership.
140504.  Governing body.
140505.  Powers.
140506.  Restrictions.
140507.  Principal office.
140508.  Records and inspection.
140509.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
140510.  Service of process.
140511.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 140501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Military Order of the Purple Heart of the 
United States of America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the 
``corporation''), is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 140502. Principles and purposes

    (a) Principles.--The principles underlying the corporation are 
patriotic allegiance to the United States, fidelity to the Constitution 
and laws of the United States, the security of civil liberty, and the 
permanence of free institutions.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the corporation are educational, 
fraternal, historical, and patriotic, perpetuating the principles of 
liberty and justice which have created the United States, by--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1382]]

            (1) commemorating all national patriotic holidays;
            (2) maintaining true allegiance to the Government of the 
        United States and fidelity to its Constitution and laws;
            (3) preserving and strengthening comradeship and patriotism 
        among its members;
            (4) assisting, comforting, and aiding all needy and 
        distressed members and their dependents;
            (5) giving needed hospital and service work through its 
        Department of Veterans Affairs certified service officers;
            (6) cooperating with other civic and patriotic organizations 
        having worthy objectives;
            (7) keeping alive the achievements and memory of our 
        country's founders;
            (8) ever cherishing the memory of General George Washington, 
        who founded the Purple Heart at his headquarters at Newburgh-on-
        the-Hudson on August 7, 1782;
            (9) influencing and teaching our citizenry, in a loyal 
        appreciation of the heritages of American citizenship, with its 
        responsibilities and privileges; and
            (10) preserving and defending the United States from all 
        enemies.

Sec. 140503. Membership

    (a) Active Members.--An individual is eligible for active membership 
in the corporation if the individual--
            (1) is of good moral character; and
            (2) has received the Purple Heart for wounds received as a 
        member, of any rank, of the Armed Forces of the United States or 
        any foreign country during military or naval combat against an 
        armed enemy of the United States.

    (b) Associate Members.--The corporation may extend eligibility for 
membership as associate members to parents and lineal descendants of an 
individual described in subsection (a) of this section on terms provided 
in its constitution and bylaws.
    (c) Voting.--Each member described in subsection (a) of this section 
has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the 
members.

Sec. 140504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. 
The board is responsible for all funds of the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, the board shall 
have at least 18 directors.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a commander, 
a senior vice commander, a chaplain, an adjutant, a finance officer, a 
judge advocate, an inspector, a surgeon, a historian, and other elected 
officers as provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 140505. Powers

    The corporation may--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1383]]

            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) make contracts;
            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (5) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (6) charge and collect membership dues; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 140506. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation. This subsection does not prevent the payment of 
compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the executive 
committee of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 140507. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the national executive board. 
However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place 
where the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 140508. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 140509. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1384]]

Sec. 140510. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 140511. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

             CHAPTER 1407--MILITARY ORDER OF THE WORLD WARS

Sec.
140701.  Definition.
140702.  Organization.
140703.  Purposes.
140704.  Membership.
140705.  Governing body.
140706.  Powers.
140707.  Restrictions.
140708.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
140709.  Records and inspection.
140710.  Service of process.
140711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
140712.  Annual report.

Sec. 140701. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 140702. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Military Order of the World Wars (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in 
the District of Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--The charter granted by this chapter 
expires if the corporation fails to comply with any provision of--
            (1) its bylaws or articles of incorporation;
            (2) this chapter; or
            (3) the laws of the District of Columbia that apply to 
        corporations such as the corporation recognized under this 
        chapter.

Sec. 140703. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and bylaws and include--
            (1) promoting military service associations;
            (2) promoting patriotic education and military, naval, and 
        air science;
            (3) defending the honor and integrity of the United States 
        Government and the Constitution;
            (4) fostering fraternal relations among all branches of the 
        Armed Forces;
            (5) encouraging the adoption of a suitable policy of 
        national security; and
            (6) encouraging the commemoration of military service and 
        the establishment of war memorials.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1385]]

Sec. 140704. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national 
origin.

Sec. 140705. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for serving as a director 
or officer may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, age, or national origin.

Sec. 140706. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in the State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 140707. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 140708. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 140709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1386]]

Sec. 140710. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 140711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 140712. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

         CHAPTER 1501--NATIONAL ACADEMY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION

Sec.
150101.  Definition.
150102.  Organization.
150103.  Purposes.
150104.  Services to United States Government.
150105.  Membership.
150106.  Governing body.
150107.  Powers.
150108.  Restrictions.
150109.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
150110.  Records and inspection.
150111.  Service of process.
150112.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
150113.  Annual report.

Sec. 150101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 150102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Academy of Public Administration (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in the District of 
Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 150103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) evaluating the structure, administration, operation, and 
        program performance of Federal and other governments and 
        government agencies, anticipating, identifying, and analyzing 
        significant problems, and suggesting timely corrective action;
            (2) foreseeing and examining critical emerging issues in 
        governance, and formulating practical approaches to their 
        resolution;
            (3) assessing the effectiveness, structure, administration, 
        and implications for governance of present or proposed public 
        programs, policies, and processes, and recommending specific 
        changes;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1387]]

            (4) advising on the relationship of Federal, State, 
        regional, and local governments, and increasing public 
        officials', citizens', and scholars' understanding of 
        requirements and opportunities for sound governance and how 
        these can be effectively met; and
            (5) demonstrating by the conduct of its affairs a commitment 
        to the highest professional standards of ethics and scholarship.

Sec. 150104. Services to United States Government

    On request of the United States Government, the corporation shall 
investigate, examine, experiment, and report on any subject of 
government. The actual expense of the investigation, examination, 
experimentation, and report shall be paid by the Government from 
appropriations available for that purpose.

Sec. 150105. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 150106. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 150107. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 150108. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or member in an amount approved by the board 
of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--Except by 
agreement, the corporation may not claim congressional approval or the 
authority of the United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 150109. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1388]]

    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 150110. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 150111. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 150112. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 150113. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

               CHAPTER 1503--NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES

Sec.
150301.  Federal charter.
150302.  Powers.
150303.  Services to United States Government.
150304.  Annual meeting.

Sec. 150301. Federal charter

    National Academy of Sciences (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') 
is a federally chartered corporation.

Sec. 150302. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) make its own organization, including adopting a 
        constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) provide for the election of domestic and foreign 
        members, their division into classes, and other matters needful 
        or usual in such an institution;
            (3) fill vacancies; and
            (4) report its actions under this subsection to Congress.

    (b) Property.--(1) The corporation may--
            (A) receive property by devise, bequest, donation, or 
        otherwise;
            (B) hold the property absolutely or in trust;
            (C) manage and invest the property as provided in the 
        constitution of the corporation; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1389]]

            (D) use the property and income from the property to carry 
        out the purposes of the corporation, subject to instructions of 
        donors.

    (2) Congress at any time may limit the amount of real estate the 
corporation may acquire and the amount of time it may be held.

Sec. 150303. Services to United States Government

    On request of the United States Government, the corporation shall 
investigate, examine, experiment, and report on any subject of science 
or art. The corporation may not receive compensation for services to the 
Government, but the actual expense of the investigation, examination, 
experimentation, and report shall be paid by the Government from an 
appropriation for that purpose.

Sec. 150304. Annual meeting

    The corporation shall hold an annual meeting at a place designated 
by the corporation.

   CHAPTER 1505--NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE SOCIETIES, WASHINGTON, 
                          DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

Sec.
150501.  Definition.
150502.  Organization.
150503.  Purposes.
150504.  Membership.
150505.  Governing body.
150506.  Powers.
150507.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
150508.  Restrictions.
150509.  Headquarters and principal office.
150510.  Records and inspection.
150511.  Service of process.
150512.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
150513.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 150501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia.

Sec. 150502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Conference of State Societies, 
Washington, District of Columbia (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), 
is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 150503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to promote friendly and cooperative relations between 
        the State and territorial societies in the District of Columbia;
            (2) to foster, participate in, and encourage educational, 
        cultural, charitable, civic, and patriotic programs and 
        activities in the District of Columbia and surrounding 
        communities; and
            (3) to act as contact agent with States for carrying out 
        State and national programs.

Sec. 150504. Membership

    The membership of the corporation consists of the members of the 
State and territorial societies in the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1390]]

Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in the 
corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided in 
the bylaws and regulations of the corporation.

Sec. 150505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Representatives.--(1) The board of representatives is 
the governing body of the corporation. The board shall exercise the 
powers granted to the corporation.
    (2) The board consists of one representative from each State society 
and territorial society in the District of Columbia. Each member of the 
board has one vote.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
a first vice president, a second vice president, a secretary, an 
assistant secretary, a treasurer, an assistant treasurer, a historian, 
and other officers designated by the board.
    (2) The officers shall be elected by the board at an annual meeting 
and serve for a term of 1 year.

Sec. 150506. Powers

    The corporation has the powers provided in its bylaws and articles 
of incorporation filed in the State in which it is incorporated, 
including the power to--
            (1) adopt bylaws and regulations for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) publish a magazine, newspaper, and other publications 
        consistent with the purposes of the corporation;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 150507. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``National 
Conference of State Societies, Washington, District of Columbia'' and 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 150508. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or member 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for elective public office. The corporation may not carry on 
propaganda.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member except on dissolution or final liquidation of the 
corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1391]]

    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or member of the board of representatives. Officers and members 
of the board who vote for or assent to making a loan or advance to an 
officer or member of the board, and officers or members of the board who 
participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and severally 
liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or advance until it 
is repaid.

Sec. 150509. Headquarters and principal office

    The headquarters and principal office of the corporation shall be in 
the District of Columbia. However, the activities of the corporation are 
not confined to the District of Columbia but may be conducted throughout 
the States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 150510. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        representatives, and committees having any of the authority of 
        its board of representatives; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 150511. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the address of 
the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.
    (b) States.--As a condition to the exercise in any State of any 
power or privilege granted by this chapter, the corporation shall file, 
with secretary of state or other designated official of that State, the 
name and address of an agent in that State on whom legal process or 
demands against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 150512. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 150513. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final 
                        liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be divided 
equally among the State and territorial societies in the District of 
Columbia.

            CHAPTER 1507--NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON CITIZENSHIP

Sec.
150701.  Organization.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1392]]

150702.  Purposes.
150703.  Membership.
150704.  National officers.
150705.  Board of directors.
150706.  Powers.
150707.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
150708.  Restrictions.
150709.  Headquarters and principal office.
150710.  Records and inspection.
150711.  Service of process.
150712.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
150713.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 150701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Conference on Citizenship (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 150702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to hold an annual national conference on citizenship on 
        or about ``Citizenship Day'', September 17;
            (2) to assist in the development of more dynamic procedures 
        for making citizenship more effective, including the promotion 
        and encouragement of local, State, and regional citizenship 
        conferences; and
            (3) to indicate the ways and means by which various 
        organizations may contribute concretely to the development of a 
        more active, alert, enlightened, conscientious, and progressive 
        citizenry in our country.

Sec. 150703. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Membership in the corporation is confined to 
agencies and organizations. Except as provided in this chapter, the 
rights and privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Voting.--Each agency or organization sending delegates to, and 
participating in, the annual national conference on citizenship has one 
vote in the conduct of the business of the conference.

Sec. 150704. National officers

    (a) National Officers.--The national officers of the corporation are 
a president, a first vice president, a second vice president, a third 
vice president, a secretary, and a treasurer. The president is chairman 
of the board of directors and of the executive committee described in 
section 150705(d) of this title.
    (b) Election.--The national officers are elected biennially from 
among the officers and members of the member agencies and organizations 
participating in the annual national conference on citizenship, by a 
majority vote of the agencies and organizations sending delegates to, 
and participating in, the conference.

Sec. 150705. Board of directors

    (a) General.--The board of directors is the governing body of the 
corporation. The board shall exercise the powers granted to the 
corporation.
    (b) Number and Election.--The number of directors and their term of 
office are as provided in the bylaws, except that the board shall have 
at least 10 members (including ex officio members). The directors are 
elected from among the officers and members

[[Page 112 STAT. 1393]]

of the member agencies and organizations participating in the annual 
national conference on citizenship, by a majority vote of the agencies 
and organizations sending delegates to, and participating in, the 
conference.
    (c) Meetings.--The board shall hold an annual meeting at a time and 
place as may be provided in the bylaws. The annual report of the board 
shall be presented at the annual meeting. Special meetings of the board 
may be called as provided in the bylaws.
    (d) Executive Committee.--The board shall designate 3 of its own 
members, who together with the president and the 3 vice presidents 
constitute the executive committee. When the board is not in session, 
the executive committee has the powers of the board subject to the 
board's direction and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be 
affixed to all papers that require it.
    (e) Executive Director and Professional Staff.--The executive 
committee shall select an executive director for the corporation, who 
shall have the qualifications and terms of employment decided by the 
committee. The executive director shall nominate other professional 
staff members, who must be approved by the executive committee.

Sec. 150706. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs, 
        including the establishment and maintenance of local and State 
        conferences on citizenship;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) use corporate funds to give prizes or awards to citizens 
        for outstanding contributions toward the achievement of the 
        purposes of the corporation;
            (9) publish a magazine and other publications consistent 
        with the purposes of the corporation;
            (10) sue and be sued; and
            (11) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 150707. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``National 
Conference on Citizenship'' and seals, emblems, and badges the 
corporation adopts.

Sec. 150708. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1394]]

    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or member as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for elective public office, or advocate, sponsor, or 
promote legislation in the Congress of the United States or in the 
legislature of a State.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation. This subsection does not prevent the executive 
committee from adopting terms of employment of the executive director as 
provided in section 150705(e) of this title.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 150709. Headquarters and principal office

    The headquarters and principal office of the corporation shall be in 
the District of Columbia, Maryland, or Virginia. However, the activities 
of the corporation are not confined to the District of Columbia, 
Maryland, and Virginia but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 150710. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its annual national 
        conference, board of directors, and committees having any of the 
        authority of its board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 150711. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Designation 
of the agent shall be filed in the office of the clerk of the United 
States District Court for the District of Columbia. Notice to or service 
on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is notice 
to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 150712. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 150713. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be transferred by 
the board of directors to a recognized agency or agencies engaged in the 
furtherance and advancement of citizenship.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1395]]

 CHAPTER 1509--NATIONAL COUNCIL ON RADIATION PROTECTION AND MEASUREMENTS

Sec.
150901.  Organization.
150902.  Purposes.
150903.  Membership.
150904.  Governing body.
150905.  Powers.
150906.  Restrictions.
150907.  Principal office.
150908.  Records and inspection.
150909.  Statement required in audit report.
150910.  Service of process.
150911.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
150912.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 150901. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Council on Radiation Protection and 
Measurements (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally 
chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 150902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to collect, analyze, develop, and disseminate in the 
        public interest information and recommendations about--
                    (A) protection against radiation; and
                    (B) radiation measurements, quantities, and units, 
                particularly those concerned with protection against 
                radiation;
            (2) to provide a means by which organizations concerned with 
        the scientific and related aspects of protection against 
        radiation and of radiation quantities, units, and measurements 
        may cooperate for effective use of their combined resources, and 
        to stimulate the work of those organizations;
            (3) to develop basic concepts about--
                    (A) radiation quantities, units, and measurements;
                    (B) the application of those concepts; and
                    (C) protection against radiation; and
            (4) to cooperate with the International Commission on 
        Radiological Protection, the Federal Radiation Council, the 
        International Commission on Radiological Units and Measurements, 
        and other national and international organizations, governmental 
        and private, concerned with radiation quantities, units, and 
        measurements and with protection against radiation.

Sec. 150903. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary or associate member) 
has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the 
members.

Sec. 150904. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program

[[Page 112 STAT. 1396]]

of the corporation. The board is responsible for the control of all 
funds of the corporation.
    (2) The selection of directors and their term of office are as 
provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents, a secretary, a treasurer, and other 
officers as provided in the bylaws. Their duties are as provided in the 
bylaws.
    (2) The officers shall be elected at the annual meeting of the 
corporation.

Sec. 150905. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose directors, officers, trustees, managers, 
        employees, and agents as the activities of the corporation 
        require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 150906. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or agent as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on 
its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent 
the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer in an amount 
approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 150907. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the board of directors. However, 
the activities of the corporation may be conducted throughout the world.

Sec. 150908. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1397]]

            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 150909. Statement required in audit report

    The corporation shall include in the audit report statement required 
under section 10101(b)(1)(B) of this title a schedule of all contracts 
requiring payments greater than $10,000 and all payments of compensation 
or fees at a rate greater than $10,000 a year.

Sec. 150910. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 150911. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 150912. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but consistent with the purposes of 
the corporation and in compliance with the bylaws.

    CHAPTER 1511--NATIONAL EDUCATION ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES

Sec.
151101.  Organization.
151102.  Purposes.
151103.  Membership.
151104.  Governing body.
151105.  Powers.
151106.  Tax exemption.
151107.  Principal office.
151108.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 151101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Education Association of the United 
States (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation.--The corporation is declared to be 
incorporated in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 151102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to elevate the character and advance the interests of 
        the profession of teaching; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1398]]

            (2) to promote the cause of education in the United States.

Sec. 151103. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights, 
obligations, and designation of classes of members are as provided in 
the bylaws.

Sec. 151104. Governing body

    (a) Officers.--The officers of the corporation are a president, one 
or more vice presidents, a secretary, a treasurer, and the members of a 
board of directors, an executive committee, and any other boards, 
councils, and committees, and other officers, as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Additional Provisions.--Except as provided in this chapter, the 
manner of selection, term of office, powers, and duties of the officers, 
boards, councils, and committees are as provided in the bylaws. The 
bylaws may provide other and different provisions as to the names and 
numbers of the officers, boards, councils, and committees.

Sec. 151105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property to 
        carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (4) accept and administer a trust for educational purposes;
            (5) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (6) sue and be sued in any court of the United States, or 
        other court of competent jurisdiction.

Sec. 151106. Tax exemption

    (a) Real Property.--Real property of the corporation is exempt from 
taxation if it is--
            (1) located in the District of Columbia;
            (2) used for the purposes provided in section 151102 of this 
        title; and
            (3) not used to produce income.

    (b) Personal Property.--Personal property of the corporation is 
exempt from taxation if it is used for the purposes provided in section 
151102 of this title or to produce income to be used for those purposes.
    (c) Annual Report.--The corporation shall submit annually to the 
Secretary of Education a written report stating in detail for the prior 
year--
            (1) the real and personal property held by the corporation;
            (2) the income from the property; and
            (3) the expenditure or other use or disposition of the 
        property and income from the property.

Sec. 151107. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia. However, the activities of the corporation may be conducted, 
and offices may be maintained, throughout the United States in 
accordance with the bylaws.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1399]]

Sec. 151108. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

          CHAPTER 1513--NATIONAL FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS FOUNDATION

Sec.
151301.  Organization.
151302.  Purposes.
151303.  Board of directors.
151304.  Officers and employees.
151305.  Powers.
151306.  Principal office.
151307.  Provision and acceptance of support by Administrator.
151308.  Service of process.
151309.  Civil action by Attorney General for equitable relief.
151310.  Immunity of United States Government.
151311.  Annual report.

Sec. 151301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Fallen Firefighters Foundation (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Nature of Corporation and Place of Incorporation.--The 
corporation is a charitable and nonprofit corporation incorporated under 
the laws of Maryland and is not an agency or establishment of the United 
States Government.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 151302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) primarily to encourage, accept, and administer private 
        gifts of property for the benefit of the National Fallen 
        Firefighters' Memorial and the annual memorial service 
        associated with it;
            (2) to provide financial assistance to families of fallen 
        firefighters for transportation to and lodging at non-Federal 
        facilities during the annual memorial service;
            (3) to assist State and local efforts to recognize 
        firefighters who die in the line of duty; and
            (4) to provide scholarships and other financial assistance 
        for educational purposes and job training for the spouses and 
        children of fallen firefighters.

Sec. 151303. Board of directors

    (a) General.--The board of directors is the governing body of the 
corporation.
    (b) Members and Appointment.--(1) The Administrator of the United 
States Fire Administration of the Federal Emergency Management Agency is 
an ex officio nonvoting member of the board. The Administrator appoints 
the voting members of the board.
    (2) The board consists of the following 9 voting members:
            (A) one active volunteer firefighter;
            (B) one active career firefighter;
            (C) one United States Government firefighter; and
            (D) six individuals who have a demonstrated interest in the 
        fire service.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1400]]

    (3) The terms of office of the voting members are 6 years (except 
for the initial members). The terms shall be staggered so that the terms 
of 3 members expire every 2 years.
    (4) A vacancy on the board shall be filled within 60 days in the 
manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (c) Chairman.--The Chairman shall be elected by the board from its 
voting members for a 2-year term.
    (d) Quorum.--A majority of the current membership of the board is a 
quorum.
    (e) Meetings.--The board shall meet at the call of the chairman at 
least once a year. If a member of the board misses 3 consecutive 
meetings, that member may be removed from the board and that vacancy may 
be filled as provided in subsection (b)(4) of this section.
    (f ) Status and Compensation.--Members of the board--
            (1) are not officers or employees of the United States 
        Government; and
            (2) serve without compensation.

    (g) Liability of Directors.--Members of the board are not personally 
liable, except for gross negligence.

Sec. 151304. Officers and employees

    (a) Appointment.--The board of directors may appoint not more than 2 
officers or employees, but only after the corporation has sufficient 
funds to pay for their services.
    (b) Status and Compensation.--Officers and employees of the 
corporation--
            (1) are not employees of the United States Government;
            (2) shall be appointed without regard to the provisions of 
        title 5 governing appointments in the competitive service; and
            (3) may be paid without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter 
        III of chapter 53 of title 5, except that an officer or employee 
        may not be paid more than the annual rate of basic pay for level 
        GS-15 of the General Schedule under section 5107 of title 5.

Sec. 151305. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt a seal which shall be judicially noticed; and
            (3) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter.

    (b) Powers as Trustee.--To carry out its purposes, the corporation 
has the usual powers of a corporation acting as a trustee in the State 
of Maryland, including the power--
            (1) to accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use 
        any gift, devise, or bequest, either absolutely or in trust, of 
        property or any income from or other interest in the property;
            (2) unless otherwise required by the instrument of transfer, 
        to sell, donate, lease, invest, or otherwise dispose of any 
        property or income from the property;
            (3) to make contracts and other arrangements with public 
        agencies and private organizations and persons and to make 
        payments necessary to carry out its functions;
            (4) to sue and be sued; and
            (5) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1401]]

Sec. 151306. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Maryland. 
However, the corporation may conduct business throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 151307. Provision and acceptance of support by Administrator

    (a) Provision by Administrator.--(1) The Administrator of the United 
States Fire Administration of the Federal Emergency Management Agency--
            (A) may provide personnel, facilities, and other 
        administrative services to the corporation; and
            (B) shall require and accept reimbursements for these 
        personnel, facilities, and services.

    (2) Reimbursements under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be 
deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then 
current and chargeable for the cost of providing the services.
    (3) Notwithstanding any other law, United States Government 
personnel and stationery may not be used to solicit funding for the 
corporation.
    (b) Acceptance by Administrator.--The Administrator may accept, 
without regard to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of 
title 5 and related regulations, the services of the corporation and its 
directors, officers, and employees as volunteers in performing functions 
authorized under this chapter, without compensation from the 
Administration.

Sec. 151308. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent to receive service of 
process for the corporation.

Sec. 151309. Civil action by Attorney General for equitable relief

    The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia for appropriate equitable 
relief if the corporation--
            (1) engages or threatens to engage in any act, practice, or 
        policy that is inconsistent with the purposes in section 151302 
        of this title; or
            (2) refuses, fails, or neglects to carry out its obligations 
        under this chapter or threatens to do so.

Sec. 151310. Immunity of United States Government

    The United States Government is not liable for any debts, defaults, 
acts, or omissions of the corporation. The full faith and credit of the 
Government does not extend to any obligation of the corporation.

Sec. 151311. Annual report

    Not later than 4 months after the end of each fiscal year, the 
corporation shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of 
Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal 
year, including a complete statement of its receipts, expenditures, and 
investments.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1402]]

            CHAPTER 1515--NATIONAL FEDERATION OF MUSIC CLUBS

Sec.
151501.  Definition.
151502.  Organization.
151503.  Purposes.
151504.  Membership.
151505.  Governing body.
151506.  Powers.
151507.  Restrictions.
151508.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
151509.  Records and inspection.
151510.  Service of process.
151511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
151512.  Annual report.

Sec. 151501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 151502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Federation of Music Clubs (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in Illinois, is a federally 
chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 151503. Purposes

    (a) Specific Purposes.--The purposes of the corporation are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation and include--
            (1) bringing into working relations with one another, music 
        clubs and other musical organizations and individuals associated 
        with musical activity for the purpose of developing and 
        maintaining high musical standards;
            (2) aiding and encouraging musical education; and
            (3) promoting American music and American artists throughout 
        the United States and the world.

    (b) Patriotic, Civic, and Historical Organization.--The corporation 
shall function as a patriotic, civic, and historical organization as 
authorized by the laws of each State in which it is incorporated.

Sec. 151504. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 151505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of the officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 151506. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1403]]

Sec. 151507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 151508. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of Illinois.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 151509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 151510. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 151511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 151512. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1404]]

           CHAPTER 1517--NATIONAL FILM PRESERVATION FOUNDATION

Sec.
151701.  Organization.
151702.  Purposes.
151703.  Board of directors.
151704.  Officers and employees.
151705.  Powers.
151706.  Principal office.
151707.  Provision and acceptance of support by Librarian of Congress.
151708.  Service of process.
151709.  Civil action by Attorney General for equitable relief.
151710.  Immunity of United States Government.
151711.  Authorization of appropriations.
151712.  Annual report.

Sec. 151701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Film Preservation Foundation (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Nature of Corporation.--The corporation is a charitable and 
nonprofit corporation and is not an agency or establishment of the 
United States Government.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 151702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to--
            (1) encourage, accept, and administer private gifts to 
        promote and ensure the preservation and public accessibility of 
        the nation's film heritage held at the Library of Congress and 
        other public and nonprofit archives throughout the United 
        States;
            (2) further the goals of the Library of Congress and the 
        National Film Preservation Board in connection with their 
        activities under the National Film Preservation Act of 1996 (2 
        U.S.C. 179l-179w); and
            (3) conduct activities, alone or in cooperation with other 
        film related institutions and organizations, to further the 
        preservation and public accessibility of films made in the 
        United States, particularly films not protected by private 
        interests, for the benefit of present and future generations of 
        Americans.

Sec. 151703. Board of directors

    (a) General.--The board of directors is the governing body of the 
corporation.
    (b) Members and Appointment.--(1) The Librarian of Congress is an ex 
officio nonvoting member of the board. The Librarian appoints the 
directors to the board.
    (2)(A) The board consists of nine directors.
    (B) Each director must be a United States citizen.
    (C) At least six directors must be knowledgeable or experienced in 
film production, distribution, preservation, or restoration, including 
two who are sitting members of the National Film Preservation Board. 
These six directors must, to the extent practicable, represent diverse 
points of view from the film community, including motion picture 
producers, creative artists, nonprofit and public archivists, 
historians, film critics, theater owners, and laboratory and university 
personnel.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1405]]

    (3) A director is not an employee of the Library of Congress and 
appointment to the board does not constitute appointment as an officer 
or employee of the United States Government for the purpose of any law 
of the United States.
    (4) The terms of office of the directors are 4 years. An individual 
may not serve more than two consecutive terms.
    (5) A vacancy on the board shall be filled within 60 days in the 
manner in which the original appointment was made.
    (c) Chair.--The Librarian shall appoint one of the directors as the 
initial chair of the board for a 2-year term. Thereafter, the chair 
shall be appointed and removed in accordance with the bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (d) Quorum.--A majority of the current membership of the board is a 
quorum.
    (e) Meetings.--The board shall meet at the call of the Librarian or 
the chair at least once each year. If a director misses three 
consecutive regularly scheduled meetings, the director may be removed 
from the board by the Librarian and that vacancy may be filled as 
provided in subsection (b) of this section.
    (f ) Compensation and Reimbursement.--Directors serve without 
compensation but may be reimbursed for actual and necessary travel and 
subsistence expenses incurred in performing duties for the corporation.
    (g) Liability of Directors.--Directors are not personally liable, 
except for gross negligence.

Sec. 151704. Officers and employees

    (a) Secretary of the Board.--(1) The Librarian of Congress shall 
appoint a Secretary of the Board to serve as executive director of the 
corporation. The Librarian may remove the Secretary.
    (2) The Secretary must be knowledgeable and experienced in matters 
relating to--
            (A) film preservation and restoration activities;
            (B) financial management; and
            (C) fundraising.

    (b) Appointment of Officers.--Except as provided in subsection (a) 
of this section, the board of directors appoints, removes, and replaces 
officers of the corporation.
    (c) Appointment of Employees.--Except as provided in subsection (a) 
of this section, the Secretary appoints, removes, and replaces employees 
of the corporation.
    (d) Status and Compensation of Employees.--Employees of the 
corporation (including the Secretary)--
            (1) are not employees of the Library of Congress;
            (2) shall be appointed and removed without regard to the 
        provisions of title 5 governing appointments in the competitive 
        service; and
            (3) may be paid without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter 
        III of chapter 53 of title 5, except that an employee may not be 
        paid more than the annual rate of basic pay for level GS-15 of 
        the General Schedule under section 5107 of title 5.

Sec. 151705. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt a seal which shall be judicially noticed; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1406]]

            (3) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter.

    (b) Powers as Trustee.--To carry out its purposes, the corporation 
has the usual powers of a corporation acting as a trustee in the 
District of Columbia, including the power--
            (1) to accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use 
        any gift, devise, or bequest, either absolutely or in trust, of 
        property or any income from or other interest in property;
            (2) to acquire property or an interest in property by 
        purchase or exchange;
            (3) unless otherwise required by an instrument of transfer, 
        to sell, donate, lease, invest, or otherwise dispose of any 
        property or income from property;
            (4) to borrow money and issue instruments of indebtedness;
            (5) to make contracts and other arrangements with public 
        agencies and private organizations and persons and to make 
        payments necessary to carry out its functions;
            (6) to sue and be sued; and
            (7) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

    (c) Encumbered or Restricted Gifts.--A gift, devise, or bequest may 
be accepted by the corporation even though it is encumbered, restricted, 
or subject to beneficial interests of private persons, if any current or 
future interest is for the benefit of the corporation.

Sec. 151706. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia. However, the corporation may conduct business throughout the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 151707. Provision and acceptance of support by Librarian of 
                        Congress

    (a) Provision by Librarian.--(1) The Librarian of Congress may 
provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative services to the 
corporation. Administrative services may include reimbursement of 
expenses under section 151703(f ) of this title, at rates not exceeding 
the applicable per diem rates for the United States Government.
    (2) The corporation shall reimburse the Librarian for support 
provided under paragraph (1) of this subsection. Amounts reimbursed 
shall be deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations 
then current and chargeable for the cost of providing the support.
    (b) Acceptance by Librarian.--The Librarian may accept, without 
regard to chapters 33 and 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 
and related regulations, the services of the corporation and its 
directors, officers, and employees as volunteers in performing functions 
authorized under this chapter, without compensation from the Library of 
Congress.

Sec. 151708. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent to receive service of 
process for the corporation. Notice to or service on the agent, or 
mailed to the business address of the agent, is notice to or service on 
the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1407]]

Sec. 151709. Civil action by Attorney General for equitable relief

    The Attorney General may bring a civil action in the United States 
District Court for the District of Columbia for appropriate equitable 
relief if the corporation--
            (1) engages or threatens to engage in any act, practice, or 
        policy that is inconsistent with the purposes in section 151702 
        of this title; or
            (2) refuses, fails, or neglects to carry out its obligations 
        under this chapter or threatens to do so.

Sec. 151710. Immunity of United States Government

    The United States Government is not liable for any debts, defaults, 
acts, or omissions of the corporation. The full faith and credit of the 
Government does not extend to any obligation of the corporation.

Sec. 151711. Authorization of appropriations

    (a) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Library of Congress amounts necessary to carry out this chapter, not to 
exceed $250,000 for each of the fiscal years ending September 30, 2000-
2003. These amounts are to be made available to the corporation to match 
private contributions (whether in currency, services, or property) made 
to the corporation by private persons and State and local governments.
    (b) Limitation Related to Administrative Expenses.--Amounts 
authorized under this section may not be used by the corporation for 
administrative expenses of the corporation, including salaries, travel, 
transportation, and overhead expenses.

Sec. 151712. Annual report

    As soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, the 
corporation shall submit a report to Congress on the activities of the 
corporation during the prior fiscal year, including a complete statement 
of its receipts, expenditures, and investments.

            CHAPTER 1519--NATIONAL FUND FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION

Sec.
151901.  Organization.
151902.  Purposes.
151903.  Membership.
151904.  Governing body.
151905.  Powers.
151906.  Restrictions.
151907.  Principal office.
151908.  Records and inspection.
151909.  Service of process.
151910.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
151911.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 151901. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Fund for Medical Education (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1408]]

    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 151902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to raise from private sources, 
administer, and disperse funds for medical education, and in carrying 
out those purposes, to take other appropriate action to promote--
            (1) the interpretation of the needs of medical education to 
        the American public;
            (2) the encouragement of the growth, development, and 
        advancement of constantly improving standards and methods in the 
        education and training of all medical personnel in the United 
        States; and
            (3) the preservation of academic freedom in the institutions 
        of medical education.

Sec. 151903. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary, sustaining, or 
associate member) has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a 
meeting of the members.

Sec. 151904. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the members of the 
corporation, the board is responsible for the general policies and 
program of the corporation and for the control of all funds of the 
corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However--
            (A) the corporation shall have at least 15 but not more than 
        25 directors; and
            (B) at least four of the directors shall be members of the 
        medical profession.

    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of 
the board of directors, a president, one or more vice presidents as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws, a secretary, a treasurer, and 
one or more assistant secretaries and assistant treasurers as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 151905. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1409]]

            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

Sec. 151906. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on 
its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent 
the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the 
board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to 
making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 151907. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in New York, New 
York, or another place decided by the board of directors. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where the 
principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 151908. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 151909. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 151910. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1410]]

Sec. 151911. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

          CHAPTER 1521--NATIONAL MINING HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM

Sec.
152101.  Definition.
152102.  Organization.
152103.  Purposes.
152104.  Membership.
152105.  Governing body.
152106.  Powers.
152107.  Restrictions.
152108.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
152109.  Records and inspection.
152110.  Service of process.
152111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
152112.  Annual report.

Sec. 152101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 152102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Mining Hall of Fame and Museum (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in Colorado, is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 152103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) honoring citizens, mining leaders, miners, prospectors, 
        teachers, scientists, engineers, inventors, governmental 
        leaders, and other individuals, who have helped to make this 
        country great by their outstanding contributions to the 
        establishment, development, advancement, or improvement of 
        mining in the United States;
            (2) perpetuating the memory of those individuals and 
        recording their contributions and achievements by the erection 
        and maintenance of buildings, monuments, and edifices considered 
        appropriate as a lasting memorial;
            (3) fostering, promoting, and encouraging a better 
        understanding of the origins and growth of mining, especially in 
        the United States, and the part mining has played in changing 
        the economic, social, and scientific aspects of our country;
            (4) establishing and maintaining a library and museum for 
        collecting and preserving for posterity, the history of those 
        honored by the corporation, together with a documentation of 
        their accomplishments and contributions to mining, including 
        such items as mining pictures, paintings, books, papers, 
        documents, scientific data, relics, mementos, artifacts, and 
        things relating to those items;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1411]]

            (5) cooperating with other mining organizations that are 
        actively engaged and interested in similar projects; and
            (6) engaging in any other activity necessary or proper to 
        accomplish any of the purposes in this section.

Sec. 152104. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 152105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 152106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 152107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 152108. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of Colorado.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 152109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1412]]

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 152110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 152111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 152112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                  CHAPTER 1523--NATIONAL MUSIC COUNCIL

Sec.
152301.  Organization.
152302.  Purposes.
152303.  Membership.
152304.  Governing body.
152305.  Powers.
152306.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
152307.  Restrictions.
152308.  Principal office.
152309.  Records and inspection.
152310.  Service of process.
152311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
152312.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 152301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Music Council (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.

    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 152302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to provide the member organizations with a forum for the 
        free discussion of problems affecting national musical life in 
        this country;
            (2) to speak with one voice for music whenever an 
        authoritative expression of opinion is desirable;
            (3) to provide for the interchange of information between 
        the various member organizations;
            (4) to encourage the coordination of efforts of the member 
        organizations, thereby avoiding duplication or conflict;
            (5) to organize exploratory surveys or fact-finding 
        commissions whenever the corporation considers them necessary 
        for the solution of important problems; and
            (6) to encourage the development and appreciation of the art 
        of music and to foster the highest ethical standards in the 
        musical professions and industries.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1413]]

Sec. 152303. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member has one vote in the conduct of official 
business of the corporation.

Sec. 152304. Governing body

    (a) General.--(1) The board of directors is the governing body of 
the corporation. The board may be known as an Executive Committee.
    (2) The board shall consist of at least 10 individuals who shall be 
representative of members of the corporation or other individuals 
selected by the members of the corporation. The directors shall be 
elected by the members of the corporation annually or at another regular 
interval as provided in the bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers of the corporation are a chairman of the 
board, a president, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, a 
treasurer, and assistant officers the board designates. The officers 
shall perform the duties and have the powers provided in the bylaws and 
by the board.

Sec. 152305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) publish a bulletin, magazine, and other publications;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, loans, 
        scholarships, and grants to deserving composers, conductors, and 
        others for the purposes stated in section 152302 of this title 
        and for other purposes the board of directors considers proper;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 152306. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``National 
Music Council'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 152307. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not engage in business for profit.
    (b) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1414]]

    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or member as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for elective public office.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 152308. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be at the place the 
board of directors decides. However, the activities of the corporation 
may be conducted throughout the States, territories, and possessions of 
the United States.

Sec. 152309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 152310. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the clerk of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business 
address of the agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.
    (b) States, Territories, and Possessions.--As a condition to the 
exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter, the 
corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or other designated 
official of each State, territory, or possession of the United States in 
which the corporation does business, the name and address of an agent in 
that State, territory, or possession on whom legal process or demands 
against the corporation may be served.

Sec. 152311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 152312. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be used by the 
board of directors for the purposes stated in section 152302 of this 
title or be transferred to a recognized educational foundation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1415]]

                  CHAPTER 1525--NATIONAL SAFETY COUNCIL

Sec.
152501.  Organization.
152502.  Purposes.
152503.  Membership.
152504.  Governing body.
152505.  Powers.
152506.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
152507.  Restrictions.
152508.  Principal office.
152509.  Records and inspection.
152510.  Service of process.
152511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
152512.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 152501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Safety Council (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 152502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to further, encourage, and promote methods and 
        procedures leading to increased safety, protection, and health 
        among employees, employers, and children in industries, on 
        farms, in schools and colleges, in homes, on streets and 
        highways, in recreation, and in other public and private places;
            (2) to collect, correlate, publish, and disseminate 
        educational and informative reports and all other data related 
        to safety methods and procedures;
            (3) to arouse and maintain the interest of the people of the 
        United States and its territories and possessions in safety and 
        accident prevention, and to encourage the adoption and 
        institution of safety methods by all individuals, corporations, 
        and other organizations;
            (4) to organize, establish, and conduct programs, lectures, 
        conferences, and other activities for the education of all 
        individuals, corporations, and other organizations in safety 
        methods and procedures;
            (5) to organize and aid in organizing local safety chapters 
        throughout the United States and its territories and 
        possessions, and to provide organizational guidance and 
        materials to promote the national safety;
            (6) to cooperate with, enlist, and develop the cooperation 
        of and among all individuals, corporations, and other 
        organizations and agencies, public and private, engaged in, 
        interested in, or in any manner connected with, any of these 
        purposes; and
            (7) to do any lawful acts necessary, useful, suitable, 
        desirable, and proper for the furtherance and accomplishment of 
        any of these purposes.

Sec. 152503. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary or sustaining member) 
has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at

[[Page 112 STAT. 1416]]

a meeting of the members. The corporation may provide in its 
constitution and bylaws for additional voting rights based on dues paid.

Sec. 152504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. Between meetings of the corporation, the board 
is responsible for the general policies and program of the corporation. 
Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the board is 
responsible for all funds of the corporation.
    (2) The board shall consist of at least 15 directors. Their manner 
of selection (including the filling of vacancies) and term of office are 
as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a chairman of 
the board of directors, a president, three or more vice presidents as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws, a secretary, a treasurer, and 
an executive vice president. Their duties are as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws.
    (2) Except for the executive vice president, the officers shall be 
elected at the annual meeting of the corporation. The executive vice 
president shall be elected by the board of directors in the manner 
provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (c) Trustees.--The corporation shall have at least 15 trustees. 
Their manner of selection and term of office are as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws. The trustees have full power and control over 
contributed funds that they raise.

Sec. 152505. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt and alter seals, emblems, and badges;
            (4) choose directors, officers, trustees, managers, 
        employees, and agents as the activities of the corporation 
        require;
            (5) make contracts;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) publish a magazine and other publications consistent 
        with the purposes of the corporation;
            (9) charge and collect membership dues and subscription 
        fees;
            (10) receive contributions or grants of money or property to 
        be devoted to carrying out the purposes of the corporation;
            (11) use corporate funds to give prizes, awards, or other 
        evidences of merit or recognition to individuals, corporations, 
        and other organizations, public or private, for outstanding 
        contributions toward the achievement of the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (12) organize, establish, and conduct conferences on safety 
        and accident prevention;
            (13) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities, charter local, State, and regional safety 
        organizations, and establish, regulate, and discontinue 
        departmental subdivisions

[[Page 112 STAT. 1417]]

        and local, State, and regional chapters in appropriate places 
        throughout the United States and its territories and 
        possessions;
            (14) sue and be sued; and
            (15) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 152506. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions and regional, State, 
and local chapters have the exclusive right to use the name ``National 
Safety Council''. The corporation has the exclusive right to use and to 
allow others to use seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts. 
This section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 152507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director, officer, 
or agent as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political 
party or candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member except on dissolution or final liquidation 
of the corporation. This subsection does not prevent the payment of 
compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the board of 
directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a director, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 152508. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Chicago, 
Illinois, or another place decided by the board of directors. However, 
the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where 
the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 152509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 152510. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice

[[Page 112 STAT. 1418]]

to or service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the 
agent, is notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 152511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 152512. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

         CHAPTER 1527--NATIONAL SKI PATROL SYSTEM, INCORPORATED

Sec.
152701.  Definition.
152702.  Organization.
152703.  Purposes.
152704.  Membership.
152705.  Governing body.
152706.  Powers.
152707.  Restrictions.
152708.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
152709.  Records and inspection.
152710.  Service of process.
152711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
152712.  Annual report.

Sec. 152701. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 152702. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Ski Patrol System, Incorporated (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in New York and 
Colorado, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 152703. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to promote, in every way, patriotic, scientific, 
        educational, and civic improvement activities and public safety 
        in skiing, by such means as the dissemination of information and 
        the formation of volunteer local patrols consisting of competent 
        skiers trained in first aid for the purpose of preventing 
        accidents and rendering speedy assistance to individuals 
        sustaining accidents; and
            (2) to solicit contributions of money, services, and other 
        property for, and generally to encourage and assist in carrying 
        out these purposes in every way.

Sec. 152704. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the bylaws.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1419]]

Sec. 152705. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 152706. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 152707. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.

    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.

Sec. 152708. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 152709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 152710. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 152711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1420]]

Sec. 152712. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior calendar year. The report 
may not be printed as a public document.

   CHAPTER 1529--NATIONAL SOCIETY, DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN COLONISTS

Sec.
152901.  Definition.
152902.  Organization.
152903.  Purposes.
152904.  Membership.
152905.  Governing body.
152906.  Powers.
152907.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
152908.  Restrictions.
152909.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
152910.  Records and inspection.
152911.  Service of process.
152912.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
152913.  Annual report.

Sec. 152901. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 152902. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Society, Daughters of the American 
Colonists (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), incorporated in the 
District of Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 152903. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include a continuing commitment, on a national basis--
            (1) to conduct, record, and publish the results of research 
        on the history and deeds of the American colonists;
            (2) to publish the memoirs of American colonists;
            (3) to erect memorials to commemorate the history and deeds 
        of the American colonists;
            (4) to promote respect and admiration for the institutions, 
        laws, and flag of the United States;
            (5) to engage in mutual improvement and educational 
        activities;
            (6) to establish scholarships to assist needy and deserving 
        students and to promote the improvement of educational 
        institutions;
            (7) to engage in volunteer service and make contributions to 
        veterans hospitals; and
            (8) to perform other charitable activities, including the 
        national presidents' projects, as may be provided in the 
        articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Corporation.

Sec. 152904. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges

[[Page 112 STAT. 1421]]

of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 152905. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation or bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation or bylaws.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 152906. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 152907. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``National 
Society, Daughters of the American Colonists'' and seals, emblems, and 
badges the corporation adopts. This section does not affect any vested 
rights.

Sec. 152908. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 152909. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of each State in which it is 
incorporated.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 152910. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1422]]

            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 152911. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 152912. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 152913. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

  CHAPTER 1531--THE NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF THE AMERICAN 
                               REVOLUTION

Sec.
153101.  Organization.
153102.  Purposes.
153103.  Powers.
153104.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
153105.  Principal office.
153106.  Deposit of historical material in Smithsonian Institution.
153107.  Annual report.

Sec. 153101. Organization

    The National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in 
the District of Columbia.

Sec. 153102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and 
educational, and include--
            (1) perpetuating the memory and spirit of the men and women 
        who achieved American independence by--
                    (A) acquiring and protecting historical spots and 
                erecting monuments;
                    (B) encouraging historical research in relation to 
                the Revolution and publishing its results;
                    (C) preserving documents and relics and the records 
                of the individual services of Revolutionary soldiers and 
                patriots; and
                    (D) promoting celebrations of all patriotic 
                anniversaries;
            (2) carrying out the injunction of Washington, in his 
        farewell address to the American people, ``to promote, as an 
        object

[[Page 112 STAT. 1423]]

        of primary importance, institutions for the general diffusion of 
        knowledge,'' thus developing an enlightened public opinion and 
        affording to young and old such advantages as shall develop in 
        them the largest capacity for performing the duties of American 
        citizens;
            (3) cherishing, maintaining, and extending the institutions 
        of American freedom;
            (4) fostering true patriotism and love of country; and
            (5) aiding in securing for mankind all the blessings of 
        liberty.

Sec. 153103. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt a seal; and
            (3) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out its purposes.

Sec. 153104. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the name ``National Society of the Daughters of the 
American Revolution''. The corporation has the exclusive right to use 
and to allow others to use seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 153105. Principal office

    The corporation shall have its headquarters or principal office in 
the District of Columbia.

Sec. 153106. Deposit of historical material in Smithsonian Institution

    The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution may permit the 
corporation to deposit its collections, manuscripts, books, pamphlets, 
and other material for history in the Smithsonian Institution or in the 
National Museum, on conditions and under rules they prescribe.

Sec. 153107. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to the Secretary of 
the Smithsonian Institution on the activities of the corporation. The 
Secretary shall communicate to Congress any part of the report that the 
Secretary considers of national interest and importance.

  CHAPTER 1533--NATIONAL SOCIETY OF THE SONS OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION

Sec.
153301.  Organization.
153302.  Purposes.
153303.  Powers.
153304.  Trustees.

Sec. 153301. Organization

    National Society of the Sons of the American Revolution (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in the 
District of Columbia.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1424]]

Sec. 153302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and 
educational, and include those intended or designed--
            (1) to perpetuate the memory of the men who, by their 
        services or sacrifices during the war of the American 
        Revolution, achieved the independence of the American people;
            (2) to unite and promote fellowship among their descendants;
            (3) to inspire them and the community at large with a more 
        profound reverence for the principles of the government founded 
        by our forefathers;
            (4) to encourage historical research in relation to the 
        American Revolution;
            (5) to acquire and preserve the records of the individual 
        services of the patriots of the war, as well as documents, 
        relics, and landmarks;
            (6) to mark the scenes of the American Revolution by 
        appropriate memorials;
            (7) to celebrate the anniversaries of the prominent events 
        of the war and of the Revolutionary period;
            (8) to foster true patriotism;
            (9) to maintain and extend the institutions of American 
        freedom; and
            (10) to carry out the purposes expressed in the preamble to 
        the Constitution of our country and the injunctions of 
        Washington in his farewell address to the American people.

Sec. 153303. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations 
        for the admission, government, suspension, and expulsion of its 
        members;
            (2) adopt and alter a seal;
            (3) provide for the election of its officers and define 
        their duties;
            (4) provide for State societies or chapters with regulations 
        for their conduct, and regulate and provide for the management, 
        safe-keeping, and protection of their property and funds;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation; and
            (6) sue and be sued.

Sec. 153304. Trustees

    The property and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by at 
least 40 trustees. The trustees shall be elected annually at the time 
provided in the bylaws. At least one trustee shall be elected annually 
from a list of nominees to be made by each of the State societies and 
submitted to the corporation at least 30 days before the annual meeting, 
in accordance with provisions adopted by the corporation to regulate 
nominations.

            CHAPTER 1535--NATIONAL TROPICAL BOTANICAL GARDEN

Sec.
153501.  Organization.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1425]]

153502.  Purposes.
153503.  Membership.
153504.  Governing body.
153505.  Powers.
153506.  Exclusive right to name.
153507.  Restrictions.
153508.  Principal office and location of activities and gardens.
153509.  Records and inspection.
153510.  Statement required in audit report.
153511.  Service of process.
153512.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
153513.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 153501. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Tropical Botanical Garden (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 153502. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to establish, develop, operate, and maintain for the 
        benefit of the people of the United States an educational and 
        scientific center in the form of one or more tropical botanical 
        gardens, together with facilities such as libraries, herbaria, 
        laboratories, and museums that are appropriate and necessary for 
        encouraging and conducting research in basic and applied 
        tropical botany;
            (2) to foster and encourage fundamental research about 
        tropical plant life and to encourage research and study of the 
        uses of tropical flora in agriculture, forestry, horticulture, 
        medicine, and other sciences;
            (3) to disseminate through publications and other media the 
        knowledge about basic and applied tropical botany acquired at 
        the gardens;
            (4) to collect and cultivate tropical flora of every nature 
        and origin and to preserve for the people of the United States 
        species of tropical plant life threatened with extinction; and
            (5) to provide a beneficial facility that will contribute to 
        the education, instruction, and recreation of the people of the 
        United States.

Sec. 153503. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each member (except an honorary or associate member) 
has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the 
members.

Sec. 153504. Governing body

    (a) Board of Trustees.--(1) The board of trustees is the governing 
body of the corporation. The duties and powers of the board are as 
provided in the bylaws.
    (2) The manner of selection and term of office of the trustees are 
as provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents, a secretary, a treasurer, and other 
officers as provided in the bylaws.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1426]]

    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 153505. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws for the management of its 
        property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, trustees, managers, employees, and 
        agents as the activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or proper to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 153506. Exclusive right to name

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use and to allow others 
to use the name ``National Tropical Botanical Garden''.

Sec. 153507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a trustee or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for elective public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
trustee, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or reimbursement for 
actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of trustees.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a trustee, 
officer, or employee. Trustees who vote for or assent to making a loan 
to a trustee, officer, or employee, and officers who participate in 
making the loan, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for 
the amount of the loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 153508. Principal office and location of activities and gardens

    (a) Principal Office.--The principal office of the corporation shall 
be in the District of Columbia or another place decided by the board of 
trustees.
    (b) Location of Activities and Gardens.--The activities of the 
corporation may be conducted anywhere. However, the corporation may 
establish tropical botanical gardens only in the United States and its 
territories and possessions.

Sec. 153509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1427]]

            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its board of trustees and 
        committees having any of the authority of its board of trustees; 
        and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 153510. Statement required in audit report

    The corporation shall include in the audit report statement required 
under section 10101(b)(1)(B) of this title a schedule of all contracts 
requiring payments greater than $10,000 and all payments of compensation 
or fees at a rate of greater than $10,000 a year.

Sec. 153511. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 153512. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 153513. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    (a) Allowable Recipients.--On dissolution or final liquidation of 
the corporation, any assets remaining after the discharge of all 
liabilities shall be distributed, as decided by the board of trustees, 
to--
            (1) the United States Government, to be administered by the 
        Secretary of the Interior under the Act of August 25, 1916 (16 
        U.S.C. 1 et seq.), known as the National Park Service Organic 
        Act)); or
            (2) a State or local government to be used for a public 
        purpose.

    (b) Restriction.--A distribution under subsection (a) of this 
section shall be consistent with the purposes of the corporation and in 
compliance with the charter and bylaws.

CHAPTER 1537--NATIONAL WOMAN'S RELIEF CORPS, AUXILIARY TO THE GRAND ARMY 
                             OF THE REPUBLIC

Sec.
153701.  Organization.
153702.  Purposes.
153703.  Membership.
153704.  Governing body.
153705.  Powers.
153706.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
153707.  Restrictions.
153708.  Principal office.
153709.  Records and inspection.
153710.  Service of process.
153711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
153712.  Annual report.
153713.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1428]]

Sec. 153701. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--National Woman's Relief Corps, Auxiliary to 
the Grand Army of the Republic (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), 
is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 153702. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to perpetuate the memory of the Grand Army of the 
        Republic, as the National Woman's Relief Corps is its auxiliary 
        and was organized at its request in 1883, and of the men who 
        saved the Union in 1861 to 1865;
            (2) to assist in every practicable way in preserving, and 
        making available for research, documents and records pertaining 
        to the Grand Army of the Republic and its members;
            (3) to cooperate in doing honor to all those who have served 
        our country patriotically in any war;
            (4) to teach patriotism, the duties of citizenship, the true 
        history of our country, and the love and honor of our flag;
            (5) to oppose every tendency or movement that would weaken 
        loyalty to, destroy, or impair our constitutional Union; and
            (6) to inculcate and broadly sustain the American principles 
        of representative government, equal rights, and impartial 
        justice for all.

Sec. 153703. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights, privileges, and designation of classes 
of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation. Eligibility for membership is limited to--
            (1) women who are the wives, mothers, daughters, and sisters 
        of Union soldiers, sailors, and marines; and
            (2) other loyal women who have not given aid or comfort to 
        the enemies of the United States of America.

Sec. 153704. Governing body

    (a) National Convention.--(1) The national convention is the supreme 
governing authority of the corporation.
    (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected 
representatives from the States as provided by the regulations of the 
corporation. However, the form of government of the corporation must be 
representative of the membership at large and may not permit 
concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-
perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large.
    (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the 
District of Columbia or in any State.
    (4) During the intervals between the convention, the executive 
officers are the governing board of the corporation and are responsible 
for the general policies, program, and activities of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1429]]

    (b) Council of Administration.--The council of administration of the 
corporation shall consist of at least 7 members elected in the manner 
and for the term provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (c) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a national 
president, senior vice national president, junior vice national 
president, secretary, treasurer, and other officers as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the offices of 
secretary and treasurer.

    (2) The titles, manner of election, term of office, and duties of 
the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 153705. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers as the corporation requires;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation; and
            (6) sue and be sued.

Sec. 153706. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate corps have the exclusive right 
to use the name ``National Woman's Relief Corps, Auxiliary to the Grand 
Army of the Republic''. The corporation has the exclusive right to use 
and to allow others to use seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 153707. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or agent as 
such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or reimbursement for 
actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the council of 
administration of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or member of the corporation. Members of the council of 
administration who vote for or assent to making a loan or advance to an 
officer or member, and officers who participate in making the loan or 
advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the 
amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 153708. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Springfield, 
Illinois. However, the activities of the corporation are not confined

[[Page 112 STAT. 1430]]

to Springfield but may be conducted throughout the States of the United 
States and the District of Columbia.

Sec. 153709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account; and
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national convention.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 153710. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process, notice, or demand for the 
corporation. Designation of the agent shall be filed in the office of 
the Mayor of the District of Columbia or another office designated by 
the Mayor. Notice to or service on the agent is notice to or service on 
the corporation.

Sec. 153711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 153712. Annual report

    Not later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal year, the 
corporation shall submit a report to Congress on the activities of the 
corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report may consist of a 
report on the proceedings of the national convention during that fiscal 
year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

Sec. 153713. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final 
                        liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, its assets 
shall be distributed as follows:
            (1) All liabilities shall be paid and discharged, or 
        adequate provision for payment and discharge shall be made.
            (2) Assets held on condition requiring return or transfer on 
        dissolution of the corporation shall be returned or transferred 
        as required by the condition.
            (3) Assets received and held subject to a limitation 
        permitting use only for charitable, religious, benevolent, 
        educational, or similar purposes, but not held on a condition 
        requiring return or transfer on dissolution of the corporation, 
        shall be transferred to one or more appropriate domestic or 
        foreign corporations, societies, or organizations under a plan 
        of distribution adopted as provided in this chapter.
            (4) Other assets shall be distributed as provided by the 
        articles of incorporation or bylaws to the extent that the 
        articles or bylaws provide the distributive rights of members, 
        or any class of members, or provide for distribution to others.
            (5) Any remaining assets may be distributed to persons, 
        societies, organizations, or domestic or foreign corporations 
        engaged in activities not for profit, as provided in a plan of 
        distribution adopted by the council of administration of the 
        corporation and in compliance with the constitution and bylaws 
        of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1431]]

                   CHAPTER 1539--THE NATIONAL YOEMEN F

Sec.
153901.  Organization.
153902.  Purposes.
153903.  Powers.
153904.  Deposit of historical material.

Sec. 153901. Organization

    The National Yoemen F (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a 
body corporate and politic in the District of Columbia.

Sec. 153902. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, historical, and 
educational and are--
            (1) to foster and perpetuate the memory of the service of 
        Yoemen (f ) in the United States Naval Reserve Force of the 
        United States Navy during World War I;
            (2) to preserve the memories and incidents of their 
        association in World War I by the encouragement of historical 
        research concerning the service of Yoemen (f );
            (3) to cherish, maintain, and extend the institutions of 
        American freedom by the promotion of celebrations of all 
        patriotic anniversaries;
            (4) to foster true patriotism and love of country; and
            (5) to aid in securing for mankind all the blessings of 
        liberty.

Sec. 153903. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt a seal; and
            (3) hold real and personal property in the United States, 
        but only to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of 
        the corporation and only in an amount not more than $50,000.

Sec. 153904. Deposit of historical material

    The Regents of the Smithsonian Institution may permit the 
corporation to deposit its collections, manuscripts, books, pamphlets, 
and other material for history in the Smithsonian Institution or in the 
National Museum, on conditions and under rules they prescribe.

                   CHAPTER 1541--NAVAL SEA CADET CORPS

Sec.
154101.  Organization.
154102.  Purposes.
154103.  Membership.
154104.  Governing body.
154105.  Powers.
154106.  Exclusive right to name, insignia, emblems, badges, marks, and 
           words.
154107.  Restrictions.
154108.  Principal office.
154109.  Records and inspection.
154110.  Service of process.
154111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
154112.  Annual report.
154113.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1432]]

Sec. 154101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Naval Sea Cadet Corps (in this chapter, the 
``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 154102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are, through organization and 
cooperation with the Department of the Navy--
            (1) to encourage and aid American young people to develop an 
        interest and skill in basic seamanship and in its naval 
        adaptations;
            (2) to train them in seagoing skills; and
            (3) to teach them patriotism, courage, self-reliance, and 
        kindred virtues.

Sec. 154103. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights, privileges, and designation of classes 
of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.

Sec. 154104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--(1) The board of directors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board is responsible for the general 
policies and program of the corporation and the control of all funds of 
the corporation.
    (2) The number of directors, their manner of selection (including 
the filling of vacancies), and their term of office are as provided in 
the constitution and bylaws. However, the board shall have at least 10 
but not more than 25 directors.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
one or more vice presidents as provided in the constitution and bylaws, 
a secretary, a treasurer, and other officers as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws.
    (2) The manner of election, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 154105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property; and
            (7) sue and be sued.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1433]]

Sec. 154106. Exclusive right to name, insignia, emblems, badges, marks, 
                        and words

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``Naval Sea 
Cadet Corps'' and distinctive insignia, emblems, and badges, descriptive 
or designating marks, and words or phrases required to carry out the 
duties and powers of the corporation. This section does not affect any 
vested rights.

Sec. 154107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the corporation or on 
its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent 
the payment of compensation to an officer in an amount approved by the 
board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
director, officer, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to 
making a loan or advance to a director, officer, or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 154108. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Tacoma, 
Washington, or another place decided by the board of directors. However, 
the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where 
the principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the 
States, territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 154109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 154110. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 154111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1434]]

Sec. 154112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to the Secretary of 
the Navy on the activities of the corporation during the prior calendar 
year. The Secretary shall communicate to Congress any part of the report 
that the Secretary considers appropriate.

Sec. 154113. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of directors, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

         CHAPTER 1543--NAVY CLUB OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Sec.
154301.  Organization.
154302.  Purposes.
154303.  Powers.
154304.  Annual report.

Sec. 154301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Navy Club of the United States of America (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 154302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to encourage, promote, and maintain comradeship among 
        individuals who are or have been in the active service of the 
        United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, or the 
        United States Coast Guard;
            (2) to revere, honor, and perpetuate the memory of 
        individuals described in paragraph (1) of this section who have 
        departed this life;
            (3) to promote and encourage further public interest in the 
        United States Navy, the United States Marine Corps, and the 
        United States Coast Guard, and the history of those 
        organizations;
            (4) to uphold the spirit and ideals of the United States 
        Navy, the United States Marine Corps, and the United States 
        Coast Guard;
            (5) to promote the ideals of American freedom and democracy 
        and to fit its members for the duties of citizenship and to 
        encourage them to serve as ably as citizens as they have served 
        the Nation under arms; and
            (6) to maintain true allegiance to American institutions.

Sec. 154303. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend bylaws;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) appoint or elect officers and agents;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1435]]

            (4) choose a board of trustees, consisting of at least 5 but 
        not more than 15 individuals, to conduct the business and 
        exercise the powers of the corporation;
            (5) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or appropriate to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (7) charge and collect membership dues and receive 
        contributions of money or property to be devoted to carrying out 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary or appropriate to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 154304. Annual report

    Not later than December 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior calendar year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

                CHAPTER 1545--NAVY WIVES CLUBS OF AMERICA

Sec.
154501.  Definition.
154502.  Organization.
154503.  Purposes.
154504.  Membership.
154505.  Governing body.
154506.  Powers.
154507.  Restrictions.
154508.  Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status.
154509.  Records and inspection.
154510.  Service of process.
154511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
154512.  Annual report.

Sec. 154501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 154502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Navy Wives Clubs of America (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), incorporated in California, is a federally 
chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 154503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) supporting the Constitution of the United States;
            (2) promoting a friendly relationship between the wives of 
        enlisted men who are serving in the active United States Navy, 
        United States Marine Corps, or United States Coast Guard, or in 
        the Active Reserves of those services; and
            (3) performing charitable activities as provided in the 
        constitution or bylaws of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1436]]

Sec. 154504. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 154505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 154506. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 154507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.

    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 154508. Duty to maintain corporate and tax-exempt status

    (a) Corporate Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
a corporation incorporated under the laws of each State in which it is 
incorporated.
    (b) Tax-Exempt Status.--The corporation shall maintain its status as 
an organization exempt from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).

Sec. 154509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1437]]

Sec. 154510. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 154511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 154512. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                CHAPTER 1547--NON COMMISSIONED OFFICERS 
        ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, INCORPORATED

Sec.
154701.  Definition.
154702.  Organization.
154703.  Purposes.
154704.  Membership.
154705.  Governing body.
154706.  Powers.
154707.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
154708.  Restrictions.
154709.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
154710.  Records and inspection.
154711.  Service of process.
154712.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
154713.  Annual report.

Sec. 154701. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 154702. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Non Commissioned Officers Association of the 
United States of America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the 
``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in Texas, is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 154703. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the bylaws and 
articles of incorporation and include--
            (1) upholding and defending the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) promoting health, prosperity, and scholarship among its 
        members and their dependents and survivors through benevolent 
        programs;
            (3) assisting veterans and their dependents and survivors 
        through a service program established for that purpose;
            (4) improving conditions for service members, veterans, and 
        their dependents and survivors; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1438]]

            (5) fostering fraternal and social activities among its 
        members in recognition that cooperative action is required for 
        the furtherance of their common interests.

Sec. 154704. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national 
origin.

Sec. 154705. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for serving as a director 
or officer may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, age, or national origin.

Sec. 154706. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 154707. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the names ``The Non 
Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of America'', 
``Non Commissioned Officers Association of the United States of 
America'', ``Non Commissioned Officers Association'', and ``NCOA'', and 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts. This section does not 
affect any vested rights.

Sec. 154708. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 154709. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 1439]]

Sec. 154710. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 154711. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 154712. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 154713. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                        CHAPTER 1601--[RESERVED]

               CHAPTER 1701--PARALYZED VETERANS OF AMERICA

Sec.
170101.  Organization.
170102.  Purposes.
170103.  Membership.
170104.  Powers.
170105.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
170106.  Restrictions.
170107.  Headquarters and principal place of business.
170108.  Records and inspection.
170109.  Service of process.
170110.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
170111.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 170101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Paralyzed Veterans of America (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 170102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to preserve the great and basic truths and enduring 
        principles on which this Nation was founded;
            (2) to form a national association for the benefit of 
        individuals who have suffered injuries or diseases of the spinal 
        cord;
            (3) to acquaint the public with the needs and problems of 
        paraplegics;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1440]]

            (4) to promote medical research in the several fields 
        connected with injuries and diseases of the spinal cord, 
        including research in neurosurgery and orthopedics and in 
        genitourinary and orthopedic appliances; and
            (5) to advocate and foster complete and effective 
        reconditioning programs for paraplegics, including a thorough 
        physical reconditioning program, physiotherapy, competent 
        walking instructions, adequate guidance (both vocational and 
        educational), academic and vocational education (both in 
        hospitals and in educational institutions), psychological 
        orientation and readjustment to family and friends, and 
        occupational therapy (both functional and diversional).

Sec. 170103. Membership

    An individual is eligible for membership in the corporation if the 
individual--
            (1) is a citizen of the United States;
            (2) was regularly enlisted, inducted, or commissioned, and 
        was accepted for or on active duty, in the Army, Navy, Marine 
        Corps, Air Force, or Coast Guard of the United States or an ally 
        of the United States;
            (3)(A) was separated from service in the Armed Forces under 
        conditions other than dishonorable; or
            (B) is on active duty or must continue to serve after the 
        cessation of hostilities; and
            (4) has suffered a spinal cord injury or disease, whether or 
        not service connected in origin.

Sec. 170104. Powers

    (a) Specific Powers.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal, emblems, and badges;
            (3) choose officers, representatives, and agents as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) accept gifts, legacies, and devises that will further 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (8) establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate State 
        and regional organizations and local chapters or posts;
            (9) establish and maintain offices to conduct the affairs of 
        the corporation;
            (10) publish a magazine, newspaper, and other publications;
            (11) sue and be sued; and
            (12) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

    (b) Privileges of Other National Veterans' Organizations.--
Privileges granted to other national veterans' organizations as a result 
of their being incorporated by Congress are also granted to the 
corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1441]]

Sec. 170105. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its State and regional organizations and local 
chapters or posts have the exclusive right to use the name ``Paralyzed 
Veterans of America'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
lawfully adopts.

Sec. 170106. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not engage in business for profit.
    (b) Stock.--The corporation may not issue stock.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation shall be nonpolitical and 
may not provide financial aid to, or otherwise promote the candidacy of, 
an individual seeking public office.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, member, or employee during the life of the 
corporation or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection 
does not prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or 
employee or reimbursement for actual necessary expenses in amounts 
approved by the board of directors.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, member, or employee. Directors who vote for or assent to making 
such a loan, and officers who participate in making the loan, are 
jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the 
loan until it is repaid.

Sec. 170107. Headquarters and principal place of business

    The headquarters and principal place of business of the corporation 
shall be in the District of Columbia. However, the activities of the 
corporation are not confined to the District of Columbia but may be 
conducted throughout the States, territories, and possessions of the 
United States.

Sec. 170108. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, executive 
        committee, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        executive committee; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 170109. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State, territory, or possession of the 
United States in which an organization, chapter, or post is organized, 
the name and address of an agent in that State, territory, or possession 
on whom legal process or demands against the corporation may be served.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1442]]

Sec. 170110. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 170111. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final 
                        liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge or satisfactory provision for discharge of 
all liabilities shall be transferred to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs to be applied to the care and comfort of paralyzed veterans.

            CHAPTER 1703--PEARL HARBOR SURVIVORS ASSOCIATION

Sec.
170301.  Definition.
170302.  Organization.
170303.  Purposes.
170304.  Membership.
170305.  Governing body.
170306.  Powers.
170307.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
170308.  Restrictions.
170309.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
170310.  Records and inspection.
170311.  Service of process.
170312.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
170313.  Annual report.

Sec. 170301. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 170302. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Pearl Harbor Survivors Association (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in 
Missouri, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 170303. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) upholding and defending the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) collating, preserving, and encouraging the study of 
        historical episodes, chronicles, mementos, and events pertaining 
        to ``The Day of Infamy, 7 December 1941'', and in particular 
        those memories and records of patriotic service performed by the 
        heroic Pearl Harbor survivors and nonsurvivors;
            (3) shielding from neglect the graves, past and future, of 
        those who served at Pearl Harbor on that day;
            (4) stimulating communities and political subdivisions into 
        taking more interest in the affairs and future of the United 
        States to keep our Nation alert;
            (5) fighting unceasingly for our national security to 
        protect the United States from enemies within and without our 
        borders;
            (6) preserving the American way of life and fostering the 
        spirit and practice of Americanism; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1443]]

            (7) instilling love of country and flag and promoting 
        soundness of mind and body in the youth of our Nation.

Sec. 170304. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Eligibility for membership in the corporation and 
the rights and privileges of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 170305. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 170306. Powers

    The corporation has the powers provided in its bylaws and articles 
of incorporation filed in the State in which it is incorporated, 
including the power to--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt emblems and badges;
            (4) establish, maintain, and regulate offices to conduct the 
        affairs of the corporation;
            (5) publish a magazine and other publications;
            (6) charge and collect membership dues and subscription fees 
        and receive contributions or grants of money or property to be 
        used to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (7) accept gifts, legacies, and devises that will further 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (8) promote the formation of auxiliaries, the membership 
        requirements of which shall be as provided in the constitution 
        and the bylaws of the corporation;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary or desirable to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 170307. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its regional districts and local branches have 
the exclusive right to use the name ``Pearl Harbor Survivors 
Association'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 170308. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1444]]

    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter or on dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation. 
This subsection does not prevent the payment of compensation to an 
officer or reimbursement for actual necessary expenses in amounts 
approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 170309. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 170310. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 170311. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 170312. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 170313. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

        CHAPTER 1705--POLISH LEGION OF AMERICAN VETERANS, U.S.A.

Sec.
170501.  Definition.
170502.  Organization.
170503.  Purposes.
170504.  Membership.
170505.  Governing body.
170506.  Powers.
170507.  Restrictions.
170508.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
170509.  Records and inspection.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1445]]

170510.  Service of process.
170511.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
170512.  Annual report.

Sec. 170501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 170502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Polish Legion of American Veterans, U.S.A. (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated 
in Illinois, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 170503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation. The corporation shall function as a veterans' and 
patriotic organization as authorized by the laws of each State in which 
it is incorporated.

Sec. 170504. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 170505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 170506. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 170507. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement

[[Page 112 STAT. 1446]]

for actual necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of 
directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authorization.--The 
corporation may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the 
United States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 170508. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 170509. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 170510. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 170511. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 170512. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                        CHAPTER 1801--[RESERVED]

     CHAPTER 1901--RESERVE OFFICERS ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED STATES

Sec.
190101.  Organization.
190102.  Purposes.
190103.  Membership.
190104.  Governing body.
190105.  Powers.
190106.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
190107.  Restrictions.
190108.  Headquarters.
190109.  Records and inspection.
190110.  Service of process.
190111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
190112.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1447]]

Sec. 190101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Reserve Officers Association of the United 
States (in this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 190102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to support and promote the 
development and execution of a military policy for the United States 
that will provide adequate national security.

Sec. 190103. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Eligibility for membership in the corporation is 
as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Voting.--Each active member of a department or chapter has one 
vote in the conduct of official business of that department or chapter.

Sec. 190104. Governing body

    (a) National Convention.--The corporation shall hold an annual 
national convention. The national convention shall be composed of 
delegates elected by the various departments.
    (b) National Executive Committee.--(1) The national executive 
committee is the governing body of the corporation.
    (2) The national executive committee consists of the president, the 
last past president, 3 vice presidents, 3 junior vice presidents, 3 
national executive committee members, and the executive director. Each 
of these individuals, except the executive director, has one vote on 
each matter decided by the committee.
    (c) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
3 vice presidents, 3 junior vice presidents, 3 national executive 
committee members, an executive director, a national treasurer, a judge 
advocate, a surgeon, a chaplain, a historian, a public relations 
officer, and other officers as decided at the national convention.
    (2) The national officers of the corporation shall be elected at the 
annual national convention, except for the executive director, the 
national treasurer, and the national public relations officer, who shall 
be appointed by the national executive committee.
    (3) The elected officers shall hold office for one year or until 
their successors have been elected and qualified.
    (d) Vacancies.--(1) Except for the positions of president and last 
past president, a vacancy on the national executive committee shall be 
filled by the existing members of the committee. An individual appointed 
by the committee to fill a vacancy serves until the next national 
convention when the individual's successor shall be elected for the 
unexpired term, if any, caused by the vacancy.
    (2) If the president is absent or the office of president is vacant, 
the national vice president of the same service as the president shall 
act as president.

Sec. 190105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) adopt and alter emblems and badges;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1448]]

            (4) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (5) publish a magazine, newspaper, and other publications;
            (6) establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate 
        departmental subdivisions and local chapters;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 190106. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate departmental subdivisions and 
local chapters have the exclusive right to use the name ``Reserve 
Officers Association of the United States'' and seals, emblems, and 
badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 190107. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not engage in business for profit.
    (b) Stock.--The corporation may not issue stock.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or member 
as such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member except on dissolution or final liquidation of the 
corporation.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or member of the national executive committee. Members of the 
national executive committee who vote for or assent to making a loan or 
advance to an officer, and officers who participate in making the loan 
or advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the 
amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 190108. Headquarters

    The headquarters of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia.

Sec. 190109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national conventions, 
        national executive committee, and national council; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 190110. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Notice to or service on the agent is notice to or service 
on the corporation.
    (b) States, Territories, and Possessions.--As a condition to the 
exercise of any power or privilege granted by this chapter,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1449]]

the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or other 
designated official of each State, territory, or possession of the 
United States in which a subordinate department or local chapter is 
organized, the name and address of an agent in that State, territory, or 
possession on whom legal process or demands against the corporation may 
be served.

Sec. 190111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 190112. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be divided 
equally among the then active officers and members.

        CHAPTER 1903--RETIRED ENLISTED ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED

Sec.
190301.  Definition.
190302.  Organization.
190303.  Purposes.
190304.  Membership.
190305.  Governing body.
190306.  Powers.
190307.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
190308.  Restrictions.
190309.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
190310.  Records and inspection.
190311.  Service of process.
190312.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
190313.  Annual report.

Sec. 190301. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 190302. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Retired Enlisted Association, Incorporated (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated 
in Colorado, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 190303. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and bylaws and include--
            (1) upholding and defending the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) promoting health, prosperity, and scholarship among its 
        members and their dependents and survivors through benevolent 
        programs;
            (3) assisting veterans and their dependents and survivors 
        through a service program established for that purpose;
            (4) improving conditions for retired enlisted service 
        members, veterans, and their dependents and survivors; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1450]]

            (5) fostering fraternal and social activities among its 
        members in recognition that cooperative action is required for 
        the furtherance of their common interests.

Sec. 190304. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the articles of incorporation and bylaws.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national 
origin.

Sec. 190305. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for serving as a director 
or officer may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, age, or national origin.

Sec. 190306. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 190307. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the names ``The 
Retired Enlisted Association, Incorporated'', ``The Retired Enlisted 
Association'', ``Retired Enlisted Association'', and ``TREA'' and seals, 
emblems, and badges the corporation adopts. This section does not affect 
any vested rights.

Sec. 190308. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 190309. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

[[Page 112 STAT. 1451]]

Sec. 190310. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 190311. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 190312. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 190313. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

       CHAPTER 2001--SOCIETY OF AMERICAN FLORISTS AND ORNAMENTAL 
                             HORTICULTURISTS

Sec.
200101.  Organization.
200102.  Purposes.
200103.  Powers.
200104.  Restrictions.
200105.  Principal office.
200106.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 200101. Organization

    Society of American Florists and Ornamental Horticulturists (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in the 
District of Columbia.

Sec. 200102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are to educate members of the 
florist industry and the public, and to promote scientific development, 
in floriculture and horticulture.

Sec. 200103. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution and bylaws for the management of 
        its property and the regulation of its affairs; and
            (2)(A) hold property, in the District of Columbia or 
        elsewhere, necessary to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation, in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000; and
            (B) hold other property donated or bequeathed in any State 
        or territory of the United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1452]]

Sec. 200104. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not operate for profit.
    (b) Use of Earnings.--Earnings generated by the corporation may be 
used only for the purposes provided in section 200102 of this title.
    (c) Use of Property.--Property held by the corporation, and the 
proceeds from the property, may be used only for the purposes provided 
in section 200102 of this title.
    (d) Parks in the District of Columbia.--The corporation may not 
occupy any park in the District of Columbia.

Sec. 200105. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be located in the 
District of Columbia. However, annual meetings may be held wherever the 
corporation decides.

Sec. 200106. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

          CHAPTER 2003--SONS OF UNION VETERANS OF THE CIVIL WAR

Sec.
200301.  Organization.
200302.  Purposes.
200303.  Membership.
200304.  Governing body.
200305.  Powers.
200306.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
200307.  Restrictions.
200308.  Principal office.
200309.  Records and inspection.
200310.  Service of process.
200311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
200312.  Annual report.
200313.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 200301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 200302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to perpetuate the memory of the Grand Army of the 
        Republic and of the men who saved the Union in 1861 to 1865;
            (2) to assist in every practicable way in preserving, and 
        making available for research, documents and records pertaining 
        to the Grand Army of the Republic and its members;
            (3) to cooperate in honoring all those who have served our 
        country patriotically in any war;
            (4) to teach patriotism, the duties of citizenship, the true 
        history of our country, and the love and honor of our flag;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1453]]

            (5) to oppose every tendency or movement that would weaken 
        loyalty to, destroy, or impair our constitutional Union; and
            (6) to inculcate and broadly sustain the American principles 
        of representative government, equal rights, and impartial 
        justice for all.

Sec. 200303. Membership

    (a) General.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for 
membership in the corporation and the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the constitution 
and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Required Service.--Eligibility for membership in the corporation 
is limited to male blood relatives of an individual who--
            (1) served at any time during the period from April 12, 
        1861, through April 9, 1865, as a soldier or sailor in--
                    (A) the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or 
                Revenue-Cutter Service; or
                    (B) a State regiment that was called into active 
                service and was subject to orders of United States 
                general officers during that period; and
            (2) was discharged honorably from, or died in, that service.

Sec. 200304. Governing body

    (a) National Encampment.--(1) The national encampment is the supreme 
governing authority of the corporation.
    (2) The national encampment is composed of officers and elected 
representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the 
corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws. However, the 
form of government of the corporation must be representative of the 
membership at large and may not permit concentration of control in a 
limited number of members or in a self-perpetuating group not 
representative of the membership at large.
    (3) The meetings of the national encampment may be held in the 
District of Columbia or in any State, territory, or possession of the 
United States.
    (b) Council of Administration.--(1) During the intervals between the 
national encampments, the council of administration is the governing 
board of the corporation and is responsible for the general policies, 
program, and activities of the corporation.
    (2) The council of administration shall consist of at least seven 
members elected in the manner and for the term provided in the 
constitution and bylaws.
    (c) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a commander 
in chief, a senior vice commander in chief, a junior vice commander in 
chief, a secretary, a treasurer, and other officers as provided in the 
constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the offices of 
secretary and treasurer.
    (2) The manner of selection, term of office, and duties of the 
officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 200305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1454]]

            (3) choose officers, managers, agents, and employees as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 200306. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the name ``Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War''. The 
corporation has the exclusive right to use and to allow others to use 
seals, emblems, and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 200307. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or agent as 
such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual 
necessary expenses in amounts approved by the council of administration 
of the corporation.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or employee. Members of the council of administration who vote 
for or assent to making a loan or advance to an officer or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or advance, are jointly and 
severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the loan or 
advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 200308. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in Trenton, New 
Jersey, or another place decided by the council of administration. 
However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place 
where the principal office is located but may be conducted in the 
District of Columbia and throughout the States, territories, and 
possessions of the United States.

Sec. 200309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account; and
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national encampments 
        and council of administration.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1455]]

Sec. 200310. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 200311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 200312. Annual report

    Not later than March 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
fiscal year. The report may consist of a report on the proceedings of 
the national encampment. The report may not be printed as a public 
document.

Sec. 200313. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the council of administration, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

              CHAPTER 2101--THEODORE ROOSEVELT ASSOCIATION

Sec.
210101.  Organization.
210102.  Purposes.
210103.  Membership.
210104.  Governing body.
210105.  Powers.
210106.  Restrictions.
210107.  Nonapplication of audit requirements.

Sec. 210101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Theodore Roosevelt Association (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 210102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to perpetuate the memory of Theodore Roosevelt for the 
        benefit of the people of the United States and the world; and
            (2) to solicit, receive, hold, and maintain funds, and to 
        apply the principal of the funds and the income from those funds 
        to the following objects, among others:
                    (A) the erection and maintenance of a suitable and 
                adequate monumental memorial in the District of Columbia 
                to the memory of Theodore Roosevelt;
                    (B) the acquisition, development, and maintenance of 
                a public park in memory of Theodore Roosevelt in Oyster 
                Bay, New York;
                    (C) the establishment and maintenance of an 
                endowment fund to promote the development and 
                application

[[Page 112 STAT. 1456]]

                of the policies and ideals of Theodore Roosevelt for the 
                benefit of the American people; and
                    (D) the donation of real and personal property, 
                including part or all of its endowment fund, to a public 
                agency for the purpose of preserving in public ownership 
                historically significant property associated with the 
                life of Theodore Roosevelt.

Sec. 210103. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation is as provided in 
regulations adopted by the board of trustees.

Sec. 210104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Trustees.--A self-perpetuating board of trustees shall 
manage and direct the property and affairs of the corporation.
    (b) Powers.--The board of trustees may adopt and amend a 
constitution, bylaws, and regulations for--
            (1) the selection of successor trustees;
            (2) the admission of members;
            (3) the election of officers; and
            (4) the conduct of the affairs of the corporation.

Sec. 210105. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt a constitution, bylaws, and regulations;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) acquire and own property necessary to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation;
            (4) give and dedicate its property to public agencies and 
        purposes;
            (5) maintain offices, hold meetings, and conduct business 
        affairs in the District of Columbia and in the States, 
        territories, and possessions of the United States;
            (6) sue and be sued within the jurisdiction of the United 
        States; and
            (7) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 210106. Restrictions

    (a) Exclusively Educational Purposes.--The corporation shall be 
operated exclusively for educational purposes.
    (b) Stocks and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (c) Distributions of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of any member or individual.

Sec. 210107. Nonapplication of audit requirements

    The audit requirements of section 10101 of this title do not apply 
to the corporation.

                CHAPTER 2103--369TH VETERANS' ASSOCIATION

Sec.
210301.  Definition.
210302.  Organization.
210303.  Purposes.
210304.  Membership.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1457]]

210305.  Governing body.
210306.  Powers.
210307.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
210308.  Restrictions.
210309.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
210310.  Records and inspection.
210311.  Service of process.
210312.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
210313.  Annual report.

Sec. 210301. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 210302. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--369th Veterans' Association (in this chapter, 
the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in New York, 
is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 210303. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) promoting the principles of friendship and good will 
        among its members;
            (2) engaging in social and civic activities that tend to 
        enhance the welfare of its members and inculcate the true 
        principles of good citizenship in its members; and
            (3) memorializing, individually and collectively, the 
        patriotic services of its members in the 369th antiaircraft 
        artillery group and other units in the Armed Forces of the 
        United States.

Sec. 210304. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges of 
members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin.

Sec. 210305. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for holding office in the 
corporation may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
or national origin.

Sec. 210306. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1458]]

Sec. 210307. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``369th 
Veterans' Association'' and seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts. This section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 210308. Restrictions

    (a) Stocks and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or participate in any political 
activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 210309. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 210310. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, the board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 210311. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 210312. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 210313. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report

[[Page 112 STAT. 1459]]

of the audit required by section 10101 of this title. The report may not 
be printed as a public document.

        CHAPTER 2201--UNITED SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS, INCORPORATED

Sec.
220101.  Organization.
220102.  Purposes.
220103.  Membership.
220104.  Governing body.
220105.  Powers.
220106.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
220107.  Assistance by Department of Defense.
220108.  Restrictions.
220109.  Duty to maintain corporate status.
220110.  Principal office.
220111.  Records and inspection.
220112.  Service of process.
220113.  Annual report.
220114.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 220101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--United Service Organizations, Incorporated (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 220102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to provide a voluntary civilian agency through which the 
        people of this Nation may, in peace or war, serve the religious, 
        spiritual, social, welfare, educational, and entertainment needs 
        of men and women in the Armed Forces, within or without the 
        territorial limits of the United States;
            (2) to contribute to the maintenance of morale of men and 
        women in the Armed Forces;
            (3) to solicit funds to maintain the organization and 
        accomplish its responsibility;
            (4) to accept the cooperation of, and provide an 
        organization and means through which, the National Board of 
        Young Men's Christian Associations, the National Board of Young 
        Women's Christian Associations, the National Catholic Community 
        Service, the Salvation Army, the National Jewish Welfare Board, 
        the Travelers Aid-International Social Service of America, and 
        other civilian agencies experienced in specialized types of 
        related work, which may be needed adequately to meet the 
        particular needs of the members of the Armed Forces, may carry 
        on their historic work of serving the religious, spiritual, 
        social, welfare, educational, and entertainment needs of men and 
        women in the Armed Forces and be afforded an appropriate means 
        of participation and financial assistance;
            (5) to coordinate their programs; and
            (6) other consonant purposes.

Sec. 220103. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, the rights, privileges, and 
designation of classes of members are as provided in the bylaws. The 
membership of the corporation consists of--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1460]]

            (1) nine individuals designated by the President; and
            (2) representatives of the civilian organizations listed in 
        section 220102(4) of this title, and of the public at large, as 
        provided in the bylaws.

Sec. 220104. Governing body

    (a) Board of Governors.--(1) The board of governors is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board is responsible for the general 
policies and program of the corporation and for the control of the 
affairs and property of the corporation.
    (2) The board shall be elected by the members of the corporation for 
the term and in the classes provided in the bylaws of the corporation. 
The board includes--
            (A) six members appointed by the President;
            (B) the Secretary of State or the Secretary's designee; and
            (C) representatives of the civilian organizations listed in 
        section 220102(4) of this title, and of the public at large, as 
        provided in the bylaws.

    (3) The corporation may have other governing bodies or committees as 
provided in the bylaws.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The office of honorary chairman of the 
corporation shall be offered to the President. On acceptance, the 
honorary chairman shall be invited to preside at meetings of the 
corporation that the honorary chairman deems appropriate and convenient.
    (2) The corporation may have other officers as provided in the 
bylaws.

Sec. 220105. Powers

    The corporation has all the powers necessary and proper to carry out 
the purposes stated in section 220102 of this title, including the 
power--
            (1) to adopt and amend bylaws and regulations for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) to adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) to adopt and alter emblems and marks;
            (4) to establish and maintain offices to conduct the affairs 
        of the corporation;
            (5) to choose officers, representatives, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (6) to make contracts;
            (7) to acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property 
        as necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (8) to borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (9) to publish a magazine, newspaper, and other 
        publications;
            (10) to establish, regulate, and terminate councils, 
        organizations, chapters, or affiliates as needed to carry out 
        the purposes stated in section 220102 of this title;
            (11) to solicit funds;
            (12) to sue and be sued; and
            (13) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out 
        the purposes stated in section 220102 of this title.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1461]]

Sec. 220106. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its councils, organizations, chapters, and 
affiliates have the exclusive right to use the names ``United Service 
Organizations, Incorporated'' and ``USO'' and seals, emblems, and badges 
the corporation adopts.

Sec. 220107. Assistance by Department of Defense

    The Secretary of Defense may make the resources of the Department of 
Defense available to the corporation to the extent compatible with the 
primary mission of the Department and in accordance with guidelines 
issued by the Secretary.

Sec. 220108. Restrictions

    (a) Profit.--The corporation may not engage in business activity for 
profit unless the activity is substantially related to--
            (1) the purposes stated in section 220102 of this title; or
            (2) raising funds to accomplish those purposes.

    (b) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (c) Political Activities.--The corporation shall be nonpolitical and 
may not provide financial aid or assistance to, or otherwise promote the 
candidacy of, an individual seeking elective public office. A 
substantial part of the activities of the corporation may not involve 
carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation.
    (d) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of a governor, officer, member, 
or employee or be distributed to any person during the life of the 
corporation or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection 
does not prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer, 
employee, or other person or reimbursement for actual necessary expenses 
in amounts approved by the board of governors.
    (e) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a governor, 
officer, member, or employee.

Sec. 220109. Duty to maintain corporate status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as a corporation 
incorporated under the laws of New York, another State, or the District 
of Columbia.

Sec. 220110. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in New York, New 
York, or another place decided by the board of governors. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where the 
principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States and in foreign 
countries.

Sec. 220111. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        governors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of governors; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1462]]

            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 220112. Service of process

    (a) District of Columbia.--The corporation shall have a designated 
agent in the District of Columbia to receive service of process for the 
corporation. Notice to or service on the agent, or mailed to the 
business address of the agent, is notice to or service on the 
corporation.
    (b) States, Territories, and Possessions.--The corporation shall 
file, with the secretary of state or other designated official of each 
State, territory, or possession of the United States in which the 
corporation or a council, organization, chapter, or affiliate may have 
activities, the name and address of an agent in that State, territory, 
or possession on whom legal process or demands against the corporation 
may be served.

Sec. 220113. Annual report

    The corporation shall make public an annual report on its activities 
for the prior calendar year.

Sec. 220114. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of governors, but in compliance with the bylaws. 
However, the assets of the corporation are irrevocably dedicated to 
charitable purposes and may not inure to the benefit of a private person 
except a fund, foundation, or organization operated exclusively for 
charitable purposes.

         CHAPTER 2203--UNITED STATES CAPITOL HISTORICAL SOCIETY

Sec.
220301.  Organization.
220302.  Purposes.
220303.  Membership.
220304.  Governing body.
220305.  Powers.
220306.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, insignia, marks, and 
           words.
220307.  Tax exemption.
220308.  Restrictions.
220309.  Duty to maintain corporate status.
220310.  Principal office.
220311.  Records and inspection.
220312.  Service of process.
220313.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
220314.  Annual report and audit.
220315.  Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation.

Sec. 220301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--United States Capitol Historical Society (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation'') is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation.--The corporation is declared to be 
incorporated in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1463]]

Sec. 220302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to encourage in the most comprehensive and enlightened 
        manner an understanding by the American people of the founding, 
        growth, and significance of the Capitol of the United States as 
        the tangible symbol of their representative form of government;
            (2) to undertake research into the history of the Congress 
        and the Capitol and to promote discussion, publication, and 
        dissemination of the results of this research;
            (3) to foster and increase an informed patriotism among the 
        citizens in the study of this living memorial to the founders of 
        this Nation and the continuing thread of principles as 
        exemplified by their successors; and
            (4) to cooperate with the standing committees of Congress, 
        the Library of Congress, the Architect of the Capitol, and 
        relevant departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the 
        executive branch of the United States Government in carrying out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 220303. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 220304. Governing body

    (a) Board of Trustees.--(1) The board of trustees is the governing 
body of the corporation. The board is responsible for the control of all 
funds and affairs of the corporation.
    (2) Exclusive of ex officio and honorary members, the board shall 
consist of at least 12 but not more than 40 trustees, one of whom shall 
be elected chairman. Trustees shall be elected by the board of trustees 
for a term of 4 years. A trustee may not be reelected as a trustee 
within one year of the expiration of the prior term, except by the 
unanimous vote of the trustees present and voting. A trustee may be 
removed at any time, with or without cause, by a two-thirds vote of the 
other trustees.
    (3) The officers of the corporation are ex officio members of the 
board with all the rights and privileges of trustees, including the 
right to vote.
    (4) The board shall meet at least once a year in the Capitol of the 
United States. The board may meet at other times as decided by the 
chairman. A meeting may be held only at a time and place stated in the 
bylaws or on 30 days' written notice.
    (b) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a president, 
5 vice presidents, a treasurer, and a secretary. The president is the 
chief executive officer.
    (2) The officers shall be elected annually by the board of trustees 
and continue in office at the pleasure of the board.
    (3) The duties of the officers are the usual duties pertaining to 
their offices and any additional duties delegated by the board.
    (4) Officers may be compensated for their services, and reimbursed 
for actual expenses, in amounts decided by the board.
    (c) Employees.--The board of trustees may employ an executive 
secretary and other personnel needed to assist the board and the 
officers to carry out the activities of the corporation. Employees

[[Page 112 STAT. 1464]]

serve at the pleasure of the board. The board shall prescribe the 
compensation and duties of employees.

Sec. 220305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, and agents as the activities 
        of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) produce, buy, and market commemorative medals, 
        souvenirs, publications, pictures, and cinemas consistent with 
        the purposes of the corporation;
            (8) charge and collect membership dues;
            (9) conduct fund raising campaigns and accept contributions;
            (10) sue and be sued; and
            (11) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 220306. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, insignia, marks, 
                        and words

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``United 
States Capitol Historical Society'' and seals, emblems, distinctive 
insignia, and descriptive or designating marks, words, or phrases 
required to carry out the duties and powers of the corporation. This 
section does not affect any vested rights.

Sec. 220307. Tax exemption

    Notwithstanding section 105 of title 4 of the United States Code or 
any provision of the District of Columbia Code, the corporation is not 
required to pay, collect, or account for any tax specified in those 
provisions in connection with activities conducted within, or on the 
grounds of, the United States Capitol Building.

Sec. 220308. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
trustee, officer, or member as such during the life of the corporation 
or on its dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not 
prevent the payment of reasonable compensation to an officer or employee 
or reimbursement for actual expenses in amounts approved by the board of 
trustees.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to a 
trustee, officer, or employee. Trustees who vote for or assent to making 
a loan or advance to a trustee, officer, or employee, and officers who 
participate in making the loan or advance, are

[[Page 112 STAT. 1465]]

jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the amount of the 
loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 220309. Duty to maintain corporate status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as a corporation 
incorporated under the laws of the District of Columbia or a State.

Sec. 220310. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the board of trustees. However, the 
activities of the corporation are not confined to the place where the 
principal office is located but may be conducted throughout the States, 
territories, and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 220311. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        trustees, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of trustees; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 220312. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 220313. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 220314. Annual report and audit

    (a) Annual Report.--The corporation shall submit an annual report to 
each House of Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior fiscal year. The report shall be submitted as soon as practical 
after the end of each fiscal year.
    (b) Audit.--In addition to complying with the audit requirements of 
section 10101 of this title, the corporation shall comply with section 
451 of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 (40 U.S.C. 193m-1).

Sec. 220315. Distribution of assets on dissolution or final liquidation

    On dissolution or final liquidation of the corporation, any assets 
remaining after the discharge of all liabilities shall be distributed as 
provided by the board of trustees, but in compliance with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

              CHAPTER 2205--UNITED STATES OLYMPIC COMMITTEE

                        SUBCHAPTER I--CORPORATION

Sec.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1466]]

220501.  Definitions.
220502.  Organization.
220503.  Purposes.
220504.  Membership.
220505.  Powers.
220506.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
220507.  Restrictions.
220508.  Headquarters, principal office, and meetings.
220509.  Resolution of disputes.
220510.  Service of process.
220511.  Annual report.

                SUBCHAPTER II--NATIONAL GOVERNING BODIES

220521.  Recognition of amateur sports organizations as national 
           governing bodies.
220522.  Eligibility requirements.
220523.  Authority of national governing bodies.
220524.  General duties of national governing bodies.
220525.  Granting sanctions for amateur athletic competitions.
220526.  Restricted amateur athletic competitions.
220527.  Complaints against national governing bodies.
220528.  Applications to replace an incumbent national governing body.
220529.  Arbitration of corporation determinations.

                        SUBCHAPTER I--CORPORATION

Sec. 220501. Definitions

    For purposes of this chapter--
            (1) ``amateur athlete'' means an athlete who meets the 
        eligibility standards established by the national governing body 
        for the sport in which the athlete competes.
            (2) ``amateur athletic competition'' means a contest, game, 
        meet, match, tournament, regatta, or other event in which 
        amateur athletes compete.
            (3) ``amateur sports organization'' means a not-for-profit 
        corporation, association, or other group organized in the United 
        States that sponsors or arranges an amateur athletic 
        competition.
            (4) ``corporation'' means the United States Olympic 
        Committee.
            (5) ``international amateur athletic competition'' means an 
        amateur athletic competition between one or more athletes 
        representing the United States, individually or as a team, and 
        one or more athletes representing a foreign country.
            (6) ``national governing body'' means an amateur sports 
        organization that is recognized by the corporation under section 
        220521 of this title.
            (7) ``sanction'' means a certificate of approval issued by a 
        national governing body.

Sec. 220502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The corporation is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.
    (c) References to United States Olympic Association.--Any reference 
to the United States Olympic Association is deemed to refer to the 
United States Olympic Committee.

Sec. 220503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to establish national goals for amateur athletic 
        activities and encourage the attainment of those goals;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1467]]

            (2) to coordinate and develop amateur athletic activity in 
        the United States, directly related to international amateur 
        athletic competition, to foster productive working relationships 
        among sports-related organizations;
            (3) to exercise exclusive jurisdiction, directly or through 
        constituent members of committees, over--
                    (A) all matters pertaining to United States 
                participation in the Olympic Games and the Pan-American 
                Games, including representation of the United States in 
                the games; and
                    (B) the organization of the Olympic Games and the 
                Pan-American Games when held in the United States;
            (4) to obtain for the United States, directly or by 
        delegation to the appropriate national governing body, the most 
        competent amateur representation possible in each event of the 
        Olympic Games and Pan-American Games;
            (5) to promote and support amateur athletic activities 
        involving the United States and foreign nations;
            (6) to promote and encourage physical fitness and public 
        participation in amateur athletic activities;
            (7) to assist organizations and persons concerned with 
        sports in the development of amateur athletic programs for 
        amateur athletes;
            (8) to provide swift resolution of conflicts and disputes 
        involving amateur athletes, national governing bodies, and 
        amateur sports organizations, and protect the opportunity of any 
        amateur athlete, coach, trainer, manager, administrator, or 
        official to participate in amateur athletic competition;
            (9) to foster the development of amateur athletic facilities 
        for use by amateur athletes and assist in making existing 
        amateur athletic facilities available for use by amateur 
        athletes;
            (10) to provide and coordinate technical information on 
        physical training, equipment design, coaching, and performance 
        analysis;
            (11) to encourage and support research, development, and 
        dissemination of information in the areas of sports medicine and 
        sports safety;
            (12) to encourage and provide assistance to amateur athletic 
        activities for women;
            (13) to encourage and provide assistance to amateur athletic 
        programs and competition for individuals with disabilities, 
        including, where feasible, the expansion of opportunities for 
        meaningful participation by individuals with disabilities in 
        programs of athletic competition for able-bodied individuals; 
        and
            (14) to encourage and provide assistance to amateur athletes 
        of racial and ethnic minorities for the purpose of eliciting the 
        participation of those minorities in amateur athletic activities 
        in which they are underrepresented.

Sec. 220504. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Eligibility for membership in the corporation is 
as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Required Provisions for Representation.--In its constitution and 
bylaws, the corporation shall establish and maintain provisions with 
respect to its governance and the conduct of its affairs for reasonable 
representation of--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1468]]

            (1) amateur sports organizations recognized as national 
        governing bodies under section 220521 of this title;
            (2) amateur athletes who are actively engaged in amateur 
        athletic competition or who have represented the United States 
        in international amateur athletic competition within the 
        preceding 10 years;
            (3) amateur sports organizations that conduct a national 
        program or regular national amateur athletic competition in 2 or 
        more sports that are included on the program of the Olympic 
        Games or the Pan-American Games on a level of proficiency 
        appropriate for the selection of amateur athletes to represent 
        the United States in international amateur athletic competition; 
        and
            (4) individuals not affiliated or associated with any 
        amateur sports organization who, in the corporation's judgment, 
        represent the interests of the American public in the activities 
        of the corporation.

Sec. 220505. Powers

    (a) Constitution and Bylaws.--The corporation shall adopt a 
constitution and bylaws. The corporation may amend its constitution only 
if the corporation--
            (1) publishes, in its principal publication, a notice of the 
        proposed amendment, including--
                    (A) the substantive terms of the amendment;
                    (B) the time and place of the corporation's regular 
                meeting at which adoption of the amendment is to be 
                decided; and
                    (C) a provision informing interested persons that 
                they may submit materials as authorized in clause (2) of 
                this subsection; and
            (2) gives all interested persons an opportunity to submit 
        written comments and information for at least 60 days after 
        publication of notice of the proposed amendment and before 
        adoption of the amendment.

    (b) General Corporate Powers.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (2) establish and maintain offices to conduct the affairs of 
        the corporation;
            (3) make contracts;
            (4) accept gifts, legacies, and devises in furtherance of 
        its corporate purposes;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) publish a magazine, newspaper, and other publications 
        consistent with its corporate purposes;
            (8) approve and revoke membership in the corporation;
            (9) sue and be sued; and
            (10) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

    (c) Powers Related to Amateur Athletics and the Olympic Games.--The 
corporation may--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1469]]

            (1) serve as the coordinating body for amateur athletic 
        activity in the United States directly related to international 
        amateur athletic competition;
            (2) represent the United States as its national Olympic 
        committee in relations with the International Olympic Committee 
        and the Pan-American Sports Organization;
            (3) organize, finance, and control the representation of the 
        United States in the competitions and events of the Olympic 
        Games and of the Pan-American Games, and obtain, directly or by 
        delegation to the appropriate national governing body, amateur 
        representation for those games;
            (4) recognize eligible amateur sports organizations as 
        national governing bodies for any sport that is included on the 
        program of the Olympic Games or the Pan-American Games;
            (5) facilitate, through orderly and effective administrative 
        procedures, the resolution of conflicts or disputes that involve 
        any of its members and any amateur athlete, coach, trainer, 
        manager, administrator, official, national governing body, or 
        amateur sports organization and that arise in connection with 
        their eligibility for and participation in the Olympic Games, 
        the Pan-American world championship competition, or other 
        protected competition as defined in the constitution and bylaws 
        of the corporation; and
            (6) provide financial assistance to any organization or 
        association, except a corporation organized for profit, in 
        furtherance of the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 220506. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    (a) Exclusive Right of Corporation.--Except as provided in 
subsection (d) of this section, the corporation has the exclusive right 
to use--
            (1) the name ``United States Olympic Committee'';
            (2) the symbol of the International Olympic Committee, 
        consisting of 5 interlocking rings;
            (3) the emblem of the corporation, consisting of an 
        escutcheon having a blue chief and vertically extending red and 
        white bars on the base with 5 interlocking rings displayed on 
        the chief; and
            (4) the words ``Olympic'', ``Olympiad'', ``Citius Altius 
        Fortius'', or any combination of those words.

    (b) Contributors and Suppliers.--The corporation may authorize 
contributors and suppliers of goods or services to use the trade name of 
the corporation or any trademark, symbol, insignia, or emblem of the 
International Olympic Committee or of the corporation to advertise that 
the contributions, goods, or services were donated or supplied to, or 
approved, selected, or used by, the corporation, the United States 
Olympic team, the Pan-American team, or team members.
    (c) Civil Action for Unauthorized Use.--Except as provided in 
subsection (d) of this section, the corporation may file a civil action 
against a person for the remedies provided in the Act of July 5, 1946 
(15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.) (popularly known as the Trademark Act of 1946) 
if the person, without the consent of the corporation, uses for the 
purpose of trade, to induce the sale of

[[Page 112 STAT. 1470]]

any goods or services, or to promote any theatrical exhibition, athletic 
performance, or competition--
            (1) the symbol described in subsection (a)(2) of this 
        section;
            (2) the emblem described in subsection (a)(3) of this 
        section;
            (3) the words described in subsection (a)(4) of this 
        section, or any combination or simulation of those words tending 
        to cause confusion or mistake, to deceive, or to falsely suggest 
        a connection with the corporation or any Olympic activity; or
            (4) any trademark, trade name, sign, symbol, or insignia 
        falsely representing association with, or authorization by, the 
        International Olympic Committee or the corporation.

    (d) Pre-Existing Rights.--(1) A person who actually used the emblem 
described in subsection (a)(3) of this section, or the words or any 
combination of the words described in subsection (a)(4) of this section, 
for any lawful purpose before September 21, 1950, is not prohibited by 
this section from continuing the lawful use for the same purpose and for 
the same goods or services.
    (2) A person who actually used, or whose assignor actually used, the 
words or any combination of the words described in subsection (a)(4) of 
this section, or a trademark, trade name, sign, symbol, or insignia 
described in subsection (c)(4) of this section, for any lawful purpose 
before September 21, 1950, is not prohibited by this section from 
continuing the lawful use for the same purpose and for the same goods or 
services.

Sec. 220507. Restrictions

    (a) Profit and Stock.--The corporation may not engage in business 
for profit or issue stock.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation shall be nonpolitical and 
may not promote the candidacy of an individual seeking public office.

Sec. 220508. Headquarters, principal office, and meetings

    The corporation shall maintain its principal office and national 
headquarters in a place in the United States decided by the corporation. 
The corporation may hold its annual and special meetings in the places 
decided by the corporation.

Sec. 220509. Resolution of disputes

    The corporation shall establish and maintain provisions in its 
constitution and bylaws for the swift and equitable resolution of 
disputes involving any of its members and relating to the opportunity of 
an amateur athlete, coach, trainer, manager, administrator, or official 
to participate in the Olympic Games, the Pan-American Games, world 
championship competition, or other protected competition as defined in 
the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 220510. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State, the name and address of an 
agent in that State on whom legal process or demands against the 
corporation may be served.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1471]]

Sec. 220511. Annual report

    (a) Submission to President and Congress.--Not later than June 1 of 
each year, the corporation shall submit simultaneously to the President 
and to each House of Congress a detailed report of its operations during 
the prior calendar year, including--
            (1) a complete statement of the corporation's receipts and 
        expenditures; and
            (2) a comprehensive description of the activities and 
        accomplishments of the corporation during the prior year.

    (b) Availability to Public.--The corporation shall make copies of 
the report available to interested persons at a reasonable cost.

                SUBCHAPTER II--NATIONAL GOVERNING BODIES

Sec. 220521. Recognition of amateur sports organizations as national 
                        governing bodies

    (a) General Authority.--For any sport that is included on the 
program of the Olympic Games or the Pan-American Games, the corporation 
may recognize as a national governing body an amateur sports 
organization that files an application and is eligible under section 
220522 of this title. The corporation may recognize only one national 
governing body for each sport for which an application is made and 
approved.
    (b) Public Hearing.--Before recognizing an organization as a 
national governing body, the corporation shall hold a public hearing on 
the application. The corporation shall publish notice of the time, 
place, and nature of the hearing. Publication shall be made in a regular 
issue of the corporation's principal publication at least 30 days, but 
not more than 60 days, before the date of the hearing.
    (c) Recommendation to International Sports Federation.--Within 61 
days after recognizing an organization as a national governing body, the 
corporation shall recommend and support in any appropriate manner the 
national governing body to the appropriate international sports 
federation as the representative of the United States for that sport.
    (d) Review of Recognition.--The corporation may review all matters 
related to the continued recognition of an organization as a national 
governing body and may take action it considers appropriate, including 
placing conditions on the continued recognition.

Sec. 220522. Eligibility requirements

    An amateur sports organization is eligible to be recognized, or to 
continue to be recognized, as a national governing body only if it--
            (1) is incorporated under the laws of a State of the United 
        States or the District of Columbia as a not-for-profit 
        corporation having as its purpose the advancement of amateur 
        athletic competition;
            (2) has the managerial and financial capability to plan and 
        execute its obligations;
            (3) submits--
                    (A) an application, in the form required by the 
                corporation, for recognition as a national governing 
                body;
                    (B) a copy of its corporate charter and bylaws; and
                    (C) any additional information considered necessary 
                or appropriate by the corporation;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1472]]

            (4) agrees to submit, on demand by the corporation, to 
        binding arbitration conducted in accordance with the commercial 
        rules of the American Arbitration Association in any controversy 
        involving--
                    (A) its recognition as a national governing body, as 
                provided for in section 220529 of this title; or
                    (B) the opportunity of any amateur athlete, coach, 
                trainer, manager, administrator, or official to 
                participate in amateur athletic competition, as provided 
                for in the corporation's constitution and bylaws;
            (5) demonstrates that it is autonomous in the governance of 
        its sport, in that it--
                    (A) independently decides and controls all matters 
                central to governance;
                    (B) does not delegate decision-making and control of 
                matters central to governance; and
                    (C) is free from outside restraint;
            (6) demonstrates that it is a member of no more than one 
        international sports federation that governs a sport included on 
        the program of the Olympic Games or the Pan-American Games;
            (7) demonstrates that its membership is open to any 
        individual who is an amateur athlete, coach, trainer, manager, 
        administrator, or official active in the sport for which 
        recognition is sought, or any amateur sports organization that 
        conducts programs in the sport for which recognition is sought, 
        or both;
            (8) provides an equal opportunity to amateur athletes, 
        coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials to 
        participate in amateur athletic competition, without 
        discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, 
        or national origin, and with fair notice and opportunity for a 
        hearing to any amateur athlete, coach, trainer, manager, 
        administrator, or official before declaring the individual 
        ineligible to participate;
            (9) is governed by a board of directors or other governing 
        board whose members are selected without regard to race, color, 
        religion, national origin, or sex, except that, in sports where 
        there are separate male and female programs, it provides for 
        reasonable representation of both males and females on the board 
        of directors or other governing board;
            (10) demonstrates that--
                    (A) its board of directors or other governing board 
                includes among its voting members--
                          (i) individuals who are actively engaged in 
                      amateur athletic competition in the sport for 
                      which recognition is sought; or
                          (ii) individuals who, within the prior 10 
                      years, have represented the United States in 
                      international amateur athletic competition in the 
                      sport for which recognition is sought; and
                    (B) the individuals described in subclause (A) of 
                this clause hold at least 20 percent of the membership 
                and voting power on the board;
            (11) provides for reasonable direct representation on its 
        board of directors or other governing board for any amateur 
        sports organization that--

[[Page 112 STAT. 1473]]

                    (A) conducts a national program or regular national 
                amateur athletic competition in the applicable sport on 
                a level of proficiency appropriate for the selection of 
                amateur athletes to represent the United States in 
                international amateur athletic competition; and
                    (B) ensures that the representation reflects the 
                nature, scope, quality, and strength of the programs and 
                competitions of the amateur sports organization in 
                relation to all other programs and competitions in the 
                sport in the United States;
            (12) demonstrates that none of its officers are also 
        officers of any other amateur sports organization recognized as 
        a national governing body;
            (13) provides procedures for the prompt and equitable 
        resolution of grievances of its members;
            (14) does not have eligibility criteria related to amateur 
        status that are more restrictive than those of the appropriate 
        international sports federation; and
            (15) demonstrates, if the organization is seeking to be 
        recognized as a national governing body, that it is prepared to 
        meet the obligations imposed on a national governing body under 
        sections 220524 and 220525 of this title.

Sec. 220523. Authority of national governing bodies

    (a) Authority.--For the sport that it governs, a national governing 
body may--
            (1) represent the United States in the appropriate 
        international sports federation;
            (2) establish national goals and encourage the attainment of 
        those goals;
            (3) serve as the coordinating body for amateur athletic 
        activity in the United States;
            (4) exercise jurisdiction over international amateur 
        athletic activities and sanction international amateur athletic 
        competition held in the United States and sanction the 
        sponsorship of international amateur athletic competition held 
        outside the United States;
            (5) conduct amateur athletic competition, including national 
        championships, and international amateur athletic competition in 
        the United States, and establish procedures for determining 
        eligibility standards for participation in competition, except 
        for amateur athletic competition specified in section 220526 of 
        this title;
            (6) recommend to the corporation individuals and teams to 
        represent the United States in the Olympic Games and the Pan-
        American Games; and
            (7) designate individuals and teams to represent the United 
        States in international amateur athletic competition (other than 
        the Olympic Games and the Pan-American Games) and certify, in 
        accordance with applicable international rules, the amateur 
        eligibility of those individuals and teams.

    (b) Replacement of National Governing Body Pursuant to 
Arbitration.--A national governing body may not exercise any authority 
under subsection (a) of this section for a particular sport after 
another amateur sports organization has been declared (in accordance 
with binding arbitration proceedings prescribed by the organic documents 
of the corporation) entitled to replace that

[[Page 112 STAT. 1474]]

national governing body as the member of the corporation for that sport.

Sec. 220524. General duties of national governing bodies

    For the sport that it governs, a national governing body shall--
            (1) develop interest and participation throughout the United 
        States and be responsible to the persons and amateur sports 
        organizations it represents;
            (2) minimize, through coordination with other amateur sports 
        organizations, conflicts in the scheduling of all practices and 
        competitions;
            (3) keep amateur athletes informed of policy matters and 
        reasonably reflect the views of the athletes in its policy 
        decisions;
            (4) allow an amateur athlete to compete in any international 
        amateur athletic competition conducted by any amateur sports 
        organization or person, unless the national governing body 
        establishes that its denial is based on evidence that the 
        organization or person conducting the competition does not meet 
        the requirements stated in section 220525 of this title;
            (5) provide equitable support and encouragement for 
        participation by women where separate programs for male and 
        female athletes are conducted on a national basis;
            (6) encourage and support amateur athletic sports programs 
        for individuals with disabilities and the participation of 
        individuals with disabilities in amateur athletic activity, 
        including, where feasible, the expansion of opportunities for 
        meaningful participation by individuals with disabilities in 
        programs of athletic competition for able-bodied individuals;
            (7) provide and coordinate technical information on physical 
        training, equipment design, coaching, and performance analysis; 
        and
            (8) encourage and support research, development, and 
        dissemination of information in the areas of sports medicine and 
        sports safety.

Sec. 220525. Granting sanctions for amateur athletic competitions

    (a) Prompt Review and Decision.--For the sport that it governs, a 
national governing body promptly shall--
            (1) review a request by an amateur sports organization or 
        person for a sanction to hold an international amateur athletic 
        competition in the United States or to sponsor United States 
        amateur athletes to compete in international amateur athletic 
        competition outside the United States; and
            (2) grant the sanction if--
                    (A) the national governing body does not decide by 
                clear and convincing evidence that holding or sponsoring 
                an international amateur athletic competition would be 
                detrimental to the best interest of the sport; and
                    (B) the requirements of subsection (b) of this 
                section are met.

    (b) Requirements.--An amateur sports organization or person may be 
granted a sanction under this section only if the organization or person 
meets the following requirements:

[[Page 112 STAT. 1475]]

            (1) The organization or person must pay the national 
        governing body any required sanctioning fee, if the fee is 
        reasonable and nondiscriminatory.
            (2) For a sanction to hold an international amateur athletic 
        competition in the United States, the organization or person 
        must--
                    (A) submit to the national governing body an audited 
                or notarized financial report of similar events, if any, 
                conducted by the organization or person; and
                    (B) demonstrate that the requirements of paragraph 
                (4) of this subsection have been met.
            (3) For a sanction to sponsor United States amateur athletes 
        to compete in international amateur athletic competition outside 
        the United States, the organization or person must--
                    (A) submit a report of the most recent trip to a 
                foreign country, if any, that the organization or person 
                sponsored for the purpose of having United States 
                amateur athletes compete in international amateur 
                athletic competition; and
                    (B) submit a letter from the appropriate entity that 
                will hold the international amateur athletic competition 
                certifying that the requirements of paragraph (4) of 
                this subsection have been met.
            (4) The requirements referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) 
        of this subsection are that--
                    (A) appropriate measures have been taken to protect 
                the amateur status of athletes who will take part in the 
                competition and to protect their eligibility to compete 
                in amateur athletic competition;
                    (B) appropriate provision has been made for 
                validation of any records established during the 
                competition;
                    (C) due regard has been given to any international 
                amateur athletic requirements specifically applicable to 
                the competition;
                    (D) the competition will be conducted by qualified 
                officials;
                    (E) proper medical supervision will be provided for 
                athletes who will participate in the competition; and
                    (F) proper safety precautions have been taken to 
                protect the personal welfare of the athletes and 
                spectators at the competition.

Sec. 220526. Restricted amateur athletic competitions

    (a) Exclusive Jurisdiction.--An amateur sports organization that 
conducts amateur athletic competition shall have exclusive jurisdiction 
over that competition if participation is restricted to a specific class 
of amateur athletes, such as high school students, college students, 
members of the Armed Forces, or similar groups or categories.
    (b) Sanctions for International Competition.--An amateur sports 
organization under subsection (a) of this section shall obtain a 
sanction from the appropriate national governing body if the 
organization wishes to--
            (1) conduct international amateur athletic competition in 
        the United States; or
            (2) sponsor international amateur athletic competition to be 
        held outside the United States.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1476]]

Sec. 220527. Complaints against national governing bodies

    (a) General.--(1) An amateur sports organization or person that 
belongs to or is eligible to belong to a national governing body may 
seek to compel the national governing body to comply with sections 
220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title by filing a written complaint 
with the corporation. A copy of the complaint shall be served on the 
national governing body.
    (2) The corporation shall establish procedures for the filing and 
disposition of complaints under this section.
    (b) Exhaustion of Remedies.--(1) An organization or person may file 
a complaint under subsection (a) of this section only after exhausting 
all available remedies within the national governing body for correcting 
deficiencies, unless it can be shown by clear and convincing evidence 
that those remedies would have resulted in unnecessary delay.
    (2) Within 30 days after a complaint is filed, the corporation shall 
decide whether the organization or person has exhausted all available 
remedies as required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. If the 
corporation determines that the remedies have not been exhausted, it may 
direct that the remedies be pursued before the corporation considers the 
complaint further.
    (c) Hearings.--If the corporation decides that all available 
remedies have been exhausted as required by subsection (b)(1) of this 
section, it shall hold a hearing, within 90 days after the complaint is 
filed, to receive testimony to decide whether the national governing 
body is complying with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this 
title.
    (d) Disposition of Complaint.--(1) If the corporation decides, as a 
result of the hearing, that the national governing body is complying 
with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title, it shall so 
notify the complainant and the national governing body.
    (2) If the corporation decides, as a result of the hearing, that the 
national governing body is not complying with sections 220522, 220524, 
and 220525 of this title, it shall--
            (A) place the national governing body on probation for a 
        specified period of time, not to exceed 180 days, which the 
        corporation considers necessary to enable the national governing 
        body to comply with those sections; or
            (B) revoke the recognition of the national governing body.

    (3) If the corporation places a national governing body on probation 
under paragraph (2) of this subsection, it may extend the probationary 
period if the national governing body has proven by clear and convincing 
evidence that, through no fault of its own, it needs additional time to 
comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 of this title. If, at 
the end of the period allowed by the corporation, the national governing 
body has not complied with those sections, the corporation shall revoke 
the recognition of the national governing body.

Sec. 220528. Applications to replace an incumbent national governing 
                        body

    (a) General.--An amateur sports organization may seek to replace an 
incumbent as the national governing body for a particular sport by 
filing a written application for recognition with the corporation.
    (b) Establishment of Procedures.--The corporation shall establish 
procedures for the filing and disposition of applications

[[Page 112 STAT. 1477]]

under this section. If 2 or more organizations file applications for the 
same sport, the applications shall be considered in a single proceeding.
    (c) Filing Procedures.--(1) An application under this section must 
be filed within one year after the final day of--
            (A) any Olympic Games, for a sport in which competition is 
        held in the Olympic Games or both the Olympic and Pan-American 
        Games; or
            (B) any Pan-American Games, for a sport in which competition 
        is held in the Pan-American Games but not in the Olympic Games.

    (2) The application shall be filed with the corporation by 
registered mail, and a copy of the application shall be served on the 
national governing body. The corporation shall inform the applicant that 
its application has been received.
    (d) Hearings.--Within 180 days after receipt of an application filed 
under this section, the corporation shall conduct a formal hearing to 
determine the merits of the application. The corporation shall publish 
notice of the time and place of the hearing in a regular issue of its 
principal publication at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, 
before the date of the hearing. In the hearing, the applicant and the 
national governing body shall be given a reasonable opportunity to 
present evidence supporting their positions.
    (e) Standards for Granting Applications.--In the hearing, the 
applicant must establish by a preponderance of the evidence that--
            (1) it meets the criteria for recognition as a national 
        governing body under section 220522 of this title; and
            (2)(A) the national governing body does not meet the 
        criteria of section 220522, 220524, or 220525 of this title; or
            (B) the applicant more adequately meets the criteria of 
        section 220522 of this title, is capable of more adequately 
        meeting the criteria of sections 220524 and 220525 of this 
        title, and provides or is capable of providing a more effective 
        national program of competition than the national governing body 
        in the sport for which it seeks recognition.

    (f ) Disposition of Applications.--Within 30 days after the close of 
the hearing required by this section, the corporation shall--
            (1) uphold the right of the national governing body to 
        continue as the national governing body for its sport;
            (2) revoke the recognition of the national governing body 
        and declare a vacancy in the national governing body for that 
        sport;
            (3) revoke the recognition of the national governing body 
        and recognize the applicant as the national governing body; or
            (4) place the national governing body on probation for a 
        period not exceeding 180 days, pending the compliance of the 
        national governing body, if the national governing body would 
        have retained recognition except for a minor deficiency in one 
        of the requirements of section 220522, 220524, or 220525 of this 
        title.

    (g) Revocation of Recognition After Probation.--If the national 
governing body does not comply with sections 220522, 220524, and 220525 
of this title within the probationary period prescribed under subsection 
(f )(4) of this section, the corporation

[[Page 112 STAT. 1478]]

shall revoke the recognition of the national governing body and either--
            (1) recognize the applicant as the national governing body; 
        or
            (2) declare a vacancy in the national governing body for 
        that sport.

Sec. 220529. Arbitration of corporation determinations

    (a) Right to Review.--A party aggrieved by a determination of the 
corporation under section 220527 or 220528 of this title may obtain 
review by any regional office of the American Arbitration Association.
    (b) Procedure.--(1) A demand for arbitration must be submitted 
within 30 days after the determination of the corporation.
    (2) On receipt of a demand for arbitration, the Association shall 
serve notice on the parties to the arbitration and on the corporation, 
and shall immediately proceed with arbitration according to the 
commercial rules of the Association in effect at the time the demand is 
filed, except that--
            (A) the arbitration panel shall consist of at least 3 
        arbitrators, unless the parties to the proceeding agree to a 
        lesser number;
            (B) the arbitration hearing shall take place at a site 
        selected by the Association, unless the parties to the 
        proceeding agree to the use of another site; and
            (C) the arbitration hearing shall be open to the public.

    (3) A decision by the arbitrators shall be by majority vote unless 
the concurrence of all arbitrators is expressly required by the 
contesting parties.
    (4) Each party may be represented by counsel or by any other 
authorized representative at the arbitration proceeding.
    (5) The parties may offer any evidence they desire and shall produce 
any additional evidence the arbitrators believe is necessary to an 
understanding and determination of the dispute. The arbitrators shall be 
the sole judges of the relevancy and materiality of the evidence 
offered. Conformity to legal rules of evidence is not necessary.
    (c) Settlement.--The arbitrators may settle a dispute arising under 
this chapter before making a final award, if agreed to by the parties 
and achieved in a manner not inconsistent with the constitution and 
bylaws of the corporation.
    (d) Binding Nature of Decision.--Final decision of the arbitrators 
is binding on the parties if the award is not inconsistent with the 
constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (e) Reopening Hearings.--(1) At any time before a final decision is 
made, the hearings may be reopened by the arbitrators on their own 
motion or on the motion of a party.
    (2) If the reopening is based on the motion of a party, and if the 
reopening would result in the arbitrators' decision being delayed beyond 
the specific period agreed to at the beginning of the arbitration 
proceedings, all parties to the decision must agree to reopen the 
hearings.

     CHAPTER 2207--UNITED STATES SUBMARINE VETERANS OF WORLD WAR II

Sec.
220701.  Definition.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1479]]

220702.  Organization.
220703.  Purposes.
220704.  Membership.
220705.  Governing body.
220706.  Powers.
220707.  Restrictions.
220708.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
220709.  Records and inspection.
220710.  Service of process.
220711.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
220712.  Annual report.

Sec. 220701. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 220702. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--United States Submarine Veterans of World War 
II (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation 
incorporated in New Jersey and Colorado, is a federally chartered 
corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 220703. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include--
            (1) preserving and promoting patriotism and loyalty to the 
        United States of America;
            (2) perpetuating and establishing memorials to the memory of 
        shipmates who served aboard United States submarines and gave 
        their lives in submarine warfare during World War II;
            (3) promoting the spirit and unity that existed among the 
        United States Navy submarine crewmen during World War II;
            (4) fostering general public awareness of life aboard 
        submarines during World War II, through securing, restoring, and 
        displaying the submarines that were in service at that time;
            (5) sponsoring annual college scholarships; and
            (6) performing acts of charity as provided in the 
        constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 220704. Membership

    Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility for membership in 
the corporation and the rights and privileges of members are as provided 
in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.

Sec. 220705. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 220706. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1480]]

Sec. 220707. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or otherwise participate in any 
political activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 220708. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 220709. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 220710. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 220711. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 220712. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

       CHAPTER 2301--VETERANS OF FOREIGN WARS OF THE UNITED STATES

Sec.
230101.  Organization.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1481]]

230102.  Purposes.
230103.  Membership.
230104.  Powers.
230105.  Exclusive right to name, seal, emblems, and badges.
230106.  Service of process.
230107.  Annual report.

Sec. 230101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States 
(in this chapter, the ``corporation''), a national association of men 
who as soldiers, sailors, marines, and airmen served this Nation in 
wars, campaigns, and expeditions on foreign soil or in hostile waters, 
is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 230102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are fraternal, patriotic, 
historical, and educational, and are--
            (1) to preserve and strengthen comradeship among its 
        members;
            (2) to assist worthy comrades;
            (3) to perpetuate the memory and history of our dead, and to 
        assist their widows and orphans;
            (4) to maintain true allegiance to the Government of the 
        United States, and fidelity to its Constitution and laws;
            (5) to foster true patriotism;
            (6) to maintain and extend the institutions of American 
        freedom; and
            (7) to preserve and defend the United States from all 
        enemies.

Sec. 230103. Membership

    An individual is eligible for membership in the corporation only if 
the individual served honorably as a member of the Armed Forces of the 
United States--
            (1) in a foreign war, insurrection, or expedition in service 
        that--
                    (A) has been recognized as campaign-medal service; 
                and
                    (B) is governed by the authorization of the award of 
                a campaign badge by the United States Government; or
            (2) on the Korean peninsula or in its territorial waters for 
        at least 30 consecutive days, or a total of 60 days, after June 
        30, 1949.

Sec. 230104. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution, bylaws, and regulations 
        to carry out the purposes of the corporation;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) establish and maintain offices to conduct its 
        activities;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) establish, regulate, and discontinue subordinate State 
        and territorial subdivisions and local chapters or posts;
            (7) publish a magazine and other publications;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1482]]

            (8) sue and be sued; and
            (9) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 230105. Exclusive right to name, seal, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the name ``Veterans 
of Foreign Wars of the United States'' and its corporate seal and to 
manufacture and use emblems and badges the corporation adopts.

Sec. 230106. Service of process

    As a condition to the exercise of any power or privilege granted by 
this chapter, the corporation shall file, with the secretary of state or 
other designated official of each State, the name and address of an 
agent in that State on whom legal process or demands against the 
corporation may be served.

Sec. 230107. Annual report

    Not later than January 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit 
a report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the 
prior fiscal year. The report may not be printed as a public document.

 CHAPTER 2303--VETERANS OF WORLD WAR I OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
                              INCORPORATED

Sec.
230301.  Organization.
230302.  Purposes.
230303.  Membership.
230304.  Governing body.
230305.  Powers.
230306.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
230307.  Restrictions.
230308.  Principal office.
230309.  Records and inspection.
230310.  Service of process.
230311.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
230312.  Annual report.
230313.  Termination of existence and distribution of assets.

Sec. 230301. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Veterans of World War I of the United States 
of America, Incorporated (in this chapter, the ``corporation''), is a 
federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Place of Incorporation and Domicile.--The corporation is 
declared to be incorporated and domiciled in the District of Columbia.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 230302. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are patriotic, fraternal, 
historical, and educational, in the service and for the benefit of 
veterans of World War I, and are--
            (1) to provide for the veterans of World War I an 
        organization for their mutual benefit, pleasure, and amusement 
        which will afford them opportunities and means for personal 
        contact with each other to keep alive friendships and memories 
        of World War I and to venerate the memory of their honored dead;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1483]]

            (2) to cooperate to the fullest extent and in a harmonious 
        manner with all veterans' organizations so that the best 
        interests of all veterans of all wars in which the United States 
        has participated, and the widows and orphans of deceased 
        veterans of those wars, may best be served;
            (3) to stimulate communities and political subdivisions into 
        taking more interest in veterans of World War I, the widows and 
        orphans of those deceased veterans, and the problems of those 
        veterans and their widows and orphans;
            (4) to collate, preserve, and encourage the study of 
        historical episodes, chronicles, mementos, and events pertaining 
        to World War I;
            (5) to fight vigorously to uphold the Constitution and laws 
        of the United States as well as the individual States of the 
        Union and to foster the spirit and practice of true Americanism;
            (6) to fight unceasingly for our national security to 
        protect Americans from enemies within our borders, as well as 
        those from without, so that our American way of life is 
        preserved;
            (7) to fight to the utmost all those alien forces, 
        particularly forces such as communism, whose objectives are to 
        deny our very existence as a free people; and
            (8) to do any other act necessary and proper to carry out 
        the purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 230303. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Eligibility for membership in the corporation and 
the rights, privileges, and designation of classes of members are as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation. However, an 
individual who did not serve honorably in the Armed Forces of the United 
States during the period beginning April 6, 1917, and ending November 
11, 1918, is not eligible for all classes of membership.
    (b) Voting.--Each member of the corporation (except an associate or 
honorary member) has one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a 
meeting of the members of the corporation except the national 
convention.

Sec. 230304. Governing body

    (a) National Convention.--(1) The national convention is the supreme 
governing authority of the corporation.
    (2) The national convention is composed of officers and elected 
representatives from the States and other local subdivisions of the 
corporation as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation. However, the form of government of the corporation must be 
representative of the membership at large and may not permit 
concentration of control in a limited number of members or in a self-
perpetuating group not representative of the membership at large. Each 
elected representative is entitled to one vote at the national 
convention.
    (3) The meetings of the national convention may be held in the 
District of Columbia or in any State, territory, or possession of the 
United States.
    (b) Board of Administration.--(1) During the intervals between the 
national convention, the board of administration is the governing board 
of the corporation and is responsible for the general policies, program, 
and activities of the corporation.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1484]]

    (2) The board shall consist of at least 7 members elected in the 
manner and for the term provided in the constitution and bylaws.
    (c) Officers.--(1) The officers of the corporation are a national 
commander, a national senior vice commander, a national junior vice 
commander, a national quartermaster, a national adjutant, a national 
judge advocate, 9 regional vice commanders, and other officers as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws. One individual may hold the 
offices of national quartermaster and national adjutant.
    (2) The titles, manner of selection, term of office, and duties of 
the officers are as provided in the constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 230305. Powers

    The corporation may--
            (1) adopt and amend a constitution and bylaws for the 
        management of its property and the regulation of its affairs;
            (2) adopt and alter a corporate seal;
            (3) choose officers, managers, employees, and agents as the 
        activities of the corporation require;
            (4) make contracts;
            (5) acquire, own, lease, encumber, and transfer property as 
        necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of the 
        corporation;
            (6) borrow money, issue instruments of indebtedness, and 
        secure its obligations by granting security interests in its 
        property;
            (7) sue and be sued; and
            (8) do any other act necessary and proper to carry out the 
        purposes of the corporation.

Sec. 230306. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation and its subordinate divisions have the exclusive 
right to use the name ``Veterans of World War I of the United States of 
America, Incorporated''. The corporation has the exclusive right to use, 
and to allow others to use, seals, emblems, and badges the corporation 
adopts.

Sec. 230307. Restrictions

    (a) Stocks and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or an officer or agent as 
such may not contribute to, support, or assist a political party or 
candidate for public office.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, an 
officer or member during the life of the corporation or on its 
dissolution or final liquidation. This subsection does not prevent the 
payment of compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual 
necessary expenses in amounts approved by the board of administration of 
the corporation.

    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan or advance to an 
officer or employee. Members of the board of administration who vote for 
or assent to making a loan or advance to an officer or employee, and 
officers who participate in making the loan or

[[Page 112 STAT. 1485]]

advance, are jointly and severally liable to the corporation for the 
amount of the loan or advance until it is repaid.

Sec. 230308. Principal office

    The principal office of the corporation shall be in the District of 
Columbia or another place decided by the board of administration. 
However, the activities of the corporation are not confined to the place 
where the principal office is located but may be conducted in the 
District of Columbia and throughout the States, territories, and 
possessions of the United States.

Sec. 230309. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account; and
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its national convention 
        and board of administration.

    (b) Inspection.--A member, or an agent or attorney of the member, 
may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper purpose, at 
any reasonable time.

Sec. 230310. Service of process

    The corporation shall have a designated agent in the District of 
Columbia to receive service of process for the corporation. Notice to or 
service on the agent, or mailed to the business address of the agent, is 
notice to or service on the corporation.

Sec. 230311. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 230312. Annual report

    Not later than March 1 of each year, the corporation shall submit a 
report to Congress on the activities of the corporation during the prior 
fiscal year. The report may consist of a report on the proceedings of 
the national convention.

Sec. 230313. Termination of existence and distribution of assets

    (a) Authority To Make Contingent Provisions.--The national 
convention, by resolution, may declare that the corporate existence will 
terminate on the occurrence of a specified event and provide for the 
disposition of any property remaining after the discharge of all 
liabilities.
    (b) Procedure for Carrying Out Contingent Provisions.--(1) An 
authenticated copy of the national convention's resolution must be filed 
in the office of the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia.
    (2) The court shall take jurisdiction when--
            (A) the declared event has occurred; and
            (B) a petition is filed with the court reciting the relevant 
        facts.

    (3) On proof of the facts, the court shall enter an order vesting 
title and ownership in accordance with the resolution of the national 
convention.

             CHAPTER 2305--VIETNAM VETERANS OF AMERICA, INC.

Sec.
230501.  Definition.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1486]]

230502.  Organization.
230503.  Purposes.
230504.  Membership.
230505.  Governing body.
230506.  Powers.
230507.  Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges.
230508.  Restrictions.
230509.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
230510.  Records and inspection.
230511.  Service of process.
230512.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
230513.  Annual report.

Sec. 230501. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 230502. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Vietnam Veterans of America, Inc. (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated in 
New York, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 230503. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation, constitution, and bylaws and include a commitment--
            (1) to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United 
        States;
            (2) to foster improvement of the condition of Vietnam-era 
        veterans;
            (3) to promote the social welfare (including educational, 
        economic, social, physical, and cultural improvement) of 
        Vietnam-era veterans and other veterans in the United States by 
        encouraging their growth, development, readjustment, self-
        respect, self-confidence, and usefulness;
            (4) to improve conditions for Vietnam-era veterans and 
        develop channels of communication to assist Vietnam-era 
        veterans;
            (5) to conduct and publish research, on a nonpartisan basis, 
        pertaining to--
                    (A) the relationship between Vietnam-era veterans 
                and American society;
                    (B) the Vietnam war experience;
                    (C) the role of the United States in securing 
                peaceful coexistence for the world community; and
                    (D) other matters that affect the educational, 
                economic, social, physical, or cultural welfare of 
                Vietnam-era veterans, other veterans, and their 
                families;
            (6) to assist disabled Vietnam-era veterans and other 
        veterans in need of assistance and the dependents and survivors 
        of those veterans; and
            (7) to consecrate the efforts of the members of the 
        corporation, and Vietnam-era veterans generally, to mutual 
        helpfulness and service to their country.

Sec. 230504. Membership

    (a) Eligibility.--Except as provided in this chapter, eligibility 
for membership in the corporation and the rights and privileges

[[Page 112 STAT. 1487]]

of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of the 
corporation.
    (b) Nondiscrimination.--The terms of membership may not discriminate 
on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, disability, age, or national 
origin.

Sec. 230505. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the constitution and 
bylaws of the corporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the constitution and bylaws of the corporation.
    (c) Nondiscrimination.--The requirements for serving as a director 
or officer may not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, 
sex, disability, age, or national origin.

Sec. 230506. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its articles of 
incorporation filed in the State of incorporation and in its 
constitution and bylaws.

Sec. 230507. Exclusive right to name, seals, emblems, and badges

    The corporation has the exclusive right to use the names ``The 
Vietnam Veterans of America, Inc.'', ``Vietnam Veterans of America, 
Inc.'', and ``Vietnam Veterans of America'', and seals, emblems, and 
badges the corporation adopts. This section does not affect any vested 
rights.

Sec. 230508. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (c) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (d) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim congressional approval or the authority of the United 
States Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 230509. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 230510. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1488]]

            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

Sec. 230511. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 230512. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers and agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 230513. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

         CHAPTER 2401--WOMEN'S ARMY CORPS VETERANS' ASSOCIATION

Sec.
240101.  Definition.
240102.  Organization.
240103.  Purposes.
240104.  Membership.
240105.  Governing body.
240106.  Powers.
240107.  Restrictions.
240108.  Duty to maintain tax-exempt status.
240109.  Records and inspection.
240110.  Service of process.
240111.  Liability for acts of officers and agents.
240112.  Annual report.

Sec. 240101. Definition

    For purposes of this chapter, ``State'' includes the District of 
Columbia and the territories and possessions of the United States.

Sec. 240102. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--Women's Army Corps Veterans' Association (in 
this chapter, the ``corporation''), a nonprofit corporation incorporated 
in the District of Columbia, is a federally chartered corporation.
    (b) Expiration of Charter.--If the corporation does not comply with 
any provision of this chapter, the charter granted by this chapter 
expires.

Sec. 240103. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are as provided in its articles of 
incorporation and include a continuing commitment on a national basis--
            (1) to promote the general welfare of all veterans, 
        especially women veterans, who have served or are serving in the 
        United States Army, the Army Reserve, and the Army National 
        Guard;
            (2) to recognize outstanding women in college ROTC units 
        throughout the United States; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1489]]

            (3) to provide services and support to patients in medical 
        facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs throughout the 
        United States.

Sec. 240104. Membership

    Eligibility for membership in the corporation and the rights and 
privileges of members are as provided in the constitution and bylaws of 
the corporation.

Sec. 240105. Governing body

    (a) Board of Directors.--The board of directors and the 
responsibilities of the board are as provided in the articles of 
incorporation.
    (b) Officers.--The officers and the election of officers are as 
provided in the articles of incorporation.

Sec. 240106. Powers

    The corporation has only the powers provided in its bylaws and 
articles of incorporation filed in each State in which it is 
incorporated.

Sec. 240107. Restrictions

    (a) Stock and Dividends.--The corporation may not issue stock or 
declare or pay a dividend.
    (b) Political Activities.--The corporation or a director or officer 
as such may not contribute to, support, or otherwise participate in any 
political activity or in any manner attempt to influence legislation.
    (c) Distribution of Income or Assets.--The income or assets of the 
corporation may not inure to the benefit of, or be distributed to, a 
director, officer, or member during the life of the charter granted by 
this chapter. This subsection does not prevent the payment of reasonable 
compensation to an officer or reimbursement for actual necessary 
expenses in amounts approved by the board of directors.
    (d) Loans.--The corporation may not make a loan to a director, 
officer, or employee.
    (e) Claim of Governmental Approval or Authority.--The corporation 
may not claim the approval or the authority of the United States 
Government for any of its activities.

Sec. 240108. Duty to maintain tax-exempt status

    The corporation shall maintain its status as an organization exempt 
from taxation under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1 et 
seq.).

Sec. 240109. Records and inspection

    (a) Records.--The corporation shall keep--
            (1) correct and complete records of account;
            (2) minutes of the proceedings of its members, board of 
        directors, and committees having any of the authority of its 
        board of directors; and
            (3) at its principal office, a record of the names and 
        addresses of its members entitled to vote.

    (b) Inspection.--A member entitled to vote, or an agent or attorney 
of the member, may inspect the records of the corporation for any proper 
purpose, at any reasonable time.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1490]]

Sec. 240110. Service of process

    The corporation shall comply with the law on service of process of 
each State in which it is incorporated and each State in which it 
carries on activities.

Sec. 240111. Liability for acts of officers and agents

    The corporation is liable for the acts of its officers or agents 
acting within the scope of their authority.

Sec. 240112. Annual report

    The corporation shall submit an annual report to Congress on the 
activities of the corporation during the prior fiscal year. The report 
shall be submitted at the same time as the report of the audit required 
by section 10101 of this title. The report may not be printed as a 
public document.

                        CHAPTER 2501--[RESERVED]

                        CHAPTER 2601--[RESERVED]

                        CHAPTER 2701--[RESERVED]

              SUBTITLE III--TREATY OBLIGATION ORGANIZATIONS

Chapter                                                             Sec.
            THE AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS
            300101

              CHAPTER 3001--THE AMERICAN NATIONAL RED CROSS

Sec.
300101.  Organization.
300102.  Purposes.
300103.  Membership and chapters.
300104.  Board of governors.
300105.  Powers.
300106.  Emblem, badge, and brassard.
300107.  Annual meeting.
300108.  Buildings.
300109.  Endowment fund.
300110.  Annual report and audit.
300111.  Reservation of right to amend or repeal.

Sec. 300101. Organization

    (a) Federal Charter.--The American National Red Cross (in this 
chapter, the ``corporation'') is a body corporate and politic in the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Name.--The name of the corporation is ``The American National 
Red Cross''.
    (c) Perpetual Existence.--Except as otherwise provided, the 
corporation has perpetual existence.

Sec. 300102. Purposes

    The purposes of the corporation are--
            (1) to provide volunteer aid in time of war to the sick and 
        wounded of the Armed Forces, in accordance with the spirit and 
        conditions of--
                    (A) the conference of Geneva of October 1863;
                    (B) the treaties of the Red Cross, or the treaties 
                of Geneva, August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 
                12,

[[Page 112 STAT. 1491]]

                1949, to which the United States of America has given 
                its adhesion; and
                    (C) any other treaty, convention, or protocol 
                similar in purpose to which the United States of America 
                has given or may give its adhesion;
            (2) in carrying out the purposes described in paragraph (1) 
        of this section, to perform all the duties devolved on a 
        national society by each nation that has acceded to any of those 
        treaties, conventions, or protocols;
            (3) to act in matters of voluntary relief and in accordance 
        with the military authorities as a medium of communication 
        between the people of the United States and the Armed Forces of 
        the United States and to act in those matters between similar 
        national societies of governments of other countries through the 
        International Committee of the Red Cross and the Government, the 
        people, and the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (4) to carry out a system of national and international 
        relief in time of peace, and to apply that system in mitigating 
        the suffering caused by pestilence, famine, fire, floods, and 
        other great national calamities, and to devise and carry out 
        measures for preventing those calamities.

Sec. 300103. Membership and chapters

    (a) Membership.--Membership in the corporation is open to all the 
people of the United States and its territories and possessions, on 
payment of an amount specified in the bylaws.
    (b) Chapters.--(1) The chapters of the corporation are the local 
units of the corporation. The board of governors shall prescribe 
regulations related to--
            (A) granting charters to the chapters and revoking those 
        charters;
            (B) the territorial jurisdiction of the chapters;
            (C) the relationship of the chapters to the corporation; and
            (D) compliance by the chapters with the policies and 
        regulations of the corporation.

    (2) The regulations shall require that each chapter adhere to the 
democratic principles of election specified in the bylaws in electing 
the governing body of the chapter and selecting delegates to the 
national convention of the corporation.

Sec. 300104. Board of governors

    (a) Board of Governors.--(1) The board of governors is the governing 
body of the corporation with all powers of governing and managing the 
corporation. The board has 50 members. The governors shall be appointed 
or elected in the following manner:
            (A) The President shall appoint eight governors, one of whom 
        the President shall designate to act as the principal officer of 
        the corporation with the title and functions provided in the 
        bylaws. The other governors appointed by the President shall be 
        officials of departments and agencies of the United States 
        Government, whose positions and interests qualify them to 
        contribute to carrying out the programs and purposes of the 
        corporation. At least one, but not more than three, of those 
        officials shall be selected from the Armed Forces.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1492]]

            (B) The chapters shall elect 30 governors at the national 
        convention under procedures for nomination and election that 
        ensure equitable representation of all chapters, with regard to 
        geographical considerations, the size of the chapters, and the 
        size of the populations served by the chapters.
            (C) The board shall elect 12 governors as members-at-large. 
        Those governors shall be individuals who are representative of 
        the national interests that the corporation serves, and with 
        which it is desirable that the corporation have close 
        association.

    (2) One-third of the members elected to the board shall be elected 
at each national convention, and take office at that time or as soon as 
practicable after the convention.
    (b) Term of Office and Vacancies.--(1) The term of office of each 
governor is 3 years. However, the term of office of a governor appointed 
by the President (except the principal officer of the corporation) 
expires if, before the end of the 3-year term, the governor retires from 
the official position held at the time of appointment as a governor.
    (2) The President shall fill as soon as practicable a vacancy in the 
office of the principal officer of the corporation or in the position of 
another governor appointed by the President. The board shall make a 
temporary appointment to fill a vacancy occurring in an elected position 
on the board. An individual appointed by the board to fill a vacancy 
serves until the next national convention.
    (c) Executive Committee.--The board may--
            (1) appoint, from its own members, an executive committee of 
        at least 11 individuals to exercise the powers of the board when 
        the board is not in session; and
            (2) appoint and remove, or provide for the appointment and 
        removal of, officers and employees of the corporation, except 
        the principal officer of the corporation.

    (d) Voting by Proxy.--Voting by proxy is not allowed at any meeting 
of the board, at the national convention, or at any meeting of a 
chapter. However, the board may allow the election of governors by proxy 
at the national convention if the board believes a national emergency 
makes attendance at the national convention impossible.

Sec. 300105. Powers

    (a) General.--The corporation may--
            (1) adopt bylaws and regulations;
            (2) adopt, alter, and destroy a seal;
            (3) own and dispose of property to carry out the purposes of 
        the corporation;
            (4) accept gifts, devises, and bequests of property to carry 
        out the purposes of the corporation;
            (5) sue and be sued in courts of law and equity, State or 
        Federal, within the jurisdiction of the United States; and
            (6) do any other act necessary to carry out this chapter and 
        promote the purposes of the corporation.

    (b) Designation.--The corporation is designated as the organization 
authorized to act in matters of relief under the treaties of Geneva, 
August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 12, 1949.

Sec. 300106. Emblem, badge, and brassard

    (a) Emblem and Badge.--In carrying out its purposes under this 
chapter, the corporation may have and use, as an emblem

[[Page 112 STAT. 1493]]

and badge, a Greek red cross on a white ground, as described in the 
treaties of Geneva, August 22, 1864, July 27, 1929, and August 12, 1949, 
and adopted by the nations acceding to those treaties.
    (b) Delivery of Brassard.--In accordance with those treaties, the 
delivery of the brassard allowed for individuals neutralized in time of 
war shall be left to military authority.

Sec. 300107. Annual meeting

    The annual meeting of the corporation is the national convention of 
delegates of the chapters. The national convention shall be held 
annually on a date and at a place specified by the board of governors. 
In matters requiring a vote at the national convention, each chapter is 
entitled to at least one vote. The board shall determine on an equitable 
basis the number of votes that each chapter is entitled to cast, taking 
into consideration the size of the membership of the chapters and of the 
populations served by the chapters. The board shall review the 
allocation of votes at least every 5 years.

Sec. 300108. Buildings

    (a) Ownership.--The United States Government shall retain ownership 
of the corporation's permanent headquarters, comprised of buildings 
erected on square 172 in the District of Columbia, including--
            (1) the memorial building to commemorate the service and 
        sacrifice of the women of the United States, North and South, 
        during the Civil War, erected for the use of the corporation;
            (2) the memorial building to commemorate the service and 
        sacrifice of the patriotic women of the United States, its 
        territories and possessions, and the District of Columbia during 
        World War I, erected for the use of the corporation; and
            (3) the permanent building erected for the use of the 
        corporation in connection with its work in cooperation with the 
        Government.

    (b) Maintenance and Expenses.--Those buildings shall remain under 
the supervision of the Administrator of General Services. However, the 
corporation shall care for and maintain the buildings without expense to 
the Government.

Sec. 300109. Endowment fund

    The endowment fund of the corporation shall be kept and invested 
under the management and control of a board of nine trustees elected by 
the board of governors. The board of governors shall prescribe 
regulations on terms and tenure of office, accountability, and expenses 
of the board of trustees.

Sec. 300110. Annual report and audit

    (a) Submission of Report.--As soon as practicable after July 1 of 
each year, the corporation shall submit a report to the Secretary of 
Defense on the activities of the corporation during the fiscal year 
ending June 30, including a complete, itemized report of all receipts 
and expenditures.
    (b) Auditing of Report and Submission to Congress.--The Secretary 
shall audit the report and submit a copy of the audited report to 
Congress.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1494]]

    (c) Payment of Audit Expenses.--The corporation shall reimburse the 
Secretary each year for auditing its accounts. The amount paid shall be 
deposited in the Treasury of the United States as a miscellaneous 
receipt.

Sec. 300111. Reservation of right to amend or repeal

    Congress reserves the right to amend or repeal the provisions of 
this chapter.

SEC. 2. THE FLAG.

    (a) Chapter 1 of title 4, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new sections:

``Sec. 4. Pledge of allegiance to the flag; manner of delivery

    ``The Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, `I pledge allegiance to the 
Flag of the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it 
stands, one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for 
all.', should be rendered by standing at attention facing the flag with 
the right hand over the heart. When not in uniform men should remove 
their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, 
the hand being over the heart. Persons in uniform should remain silent, 
face the flag, and render the military salute.

``Sec. 5. Display and use of flag by civilians; codification of rules 
                        and customs; definition

    ``The following codification of existing rules and customs 
pertaining to the display and use of the flag of the United States of 
America is established for the use of such civilians or civilian groups 
or organizations as may not be required to conform with regulations 
promulgated by one or more executive departments of the Government of 
the United States. The flag of the United States for the purpose of this 
chapter shall be defined according to sections 1 and 2 of this title and 
Executive Order 10834 issued pursuant thereto.

``Sec. 6. Time and occasions for display

    ``(a) It is the universal custom to display the flag only from 
sunrise to sunset on buildings and on stationary flagstaffs in the open. 
However, when a patriotic effect is desired, the flag may be displayed 
24 hours a day if properly illuminated during the hours of darkness.
    ``(b) The flag should be hoisted briskly and lowered ceremoniously.
    ``(c) The flag should not be displayed on days when the weather is 
inclement, except when an all weather flag is displayed.
    ``(d) The flag should be displayed on all days, especially on New 
Year's Day, January 1; Inauguration Day, January 20; Lincoln's Birthday, 
February 12; Washington's Birthday, third Monday in February; Easter 
Sunday (variable); Mother's Day, second Sunday in May; Armed Forces Day, 
third Saturday in May; Memorial Day (half-staff until noon), the last 
Monday in May; Flag Day, June 14; Independence Day, July 4; Labor Day, 
first Monday in September; Constitution Day, September 17; Columbus Day, 
second Monday in October; Navy Day, October 27; Veterans Day, November 
11; Thanksgiving Day, fourth Thursday in November; Christmas Day, 
December 25; and such other days as may be proclaimed

[[Page 112 STAT. 1495]]

by the President of the United States; the birthdays of States (date of 
admission); and on State holidays.
    ``(e) The flag should be displayed daily on or near the main 
administration building of every public institution.
    ``(f ) The flag should be displayed in or near every polling place 
on election days.
    ``(g) The flag should be displayed during school days in or near 
every schoolhouse.

``Sec. 7. Position and manner of display

    ``The flag, when carried in a procession with another flag or flags, 
should be either on the marching right; that is, the flag 's own right, 
or, if there is a line of other flags, in front of the center of that 
line.
    ``(a) The flag should not be displayed on a float in a parade except 
from a staff, or as provided in subsection (i) of this section.
    ``(b) The flag should not be draped over the hood, top, sides, or 
back of a vehicle or of a railroad train or a boat. When the flag is 
displayed on a motorcar, the staff shall be fixed firmly to the chassis 
or clamped to the right fender.
    ``(c) No other flag or pennant should be placed above or, if on the 
same level, to the right of the flag of the United States of America, 
except during church services conducted by naval chaplains at sea, when 
the church pennant may be flown above the flag during church services 
for the personnel of the Navy. No person shall display the flag of the 
United Nations or any other national or international flag equal, above, 
or in a position of superior prominence or honor to, or in place of, the 
flag of the United States at any place within the United States or any 
Territory or possession thereof: Provided, That nothing in this section 
shall make unlawful the continuance of the practice heretofore followed 
of displaying the flag of the United Nations in a position of superior 
prominence or honor, and other national flags in positions of equal 
prominence or honor, with that of the flag of the United States at the 
headquarters of the United Nations.

    ``(d) The flag of the United States of America, when it is displayed 
with another flag against a wall from crossed staffs, should be on the 
right, the flag 's own right, and its staff should be in front of the 
staff of the other flag.
    ``(e) The flag of the United States of America should be at the 
center and at the highest point of the group when a number of flags of 
States or localities or pennants of societies are grouped and displayed 
from staffs.
    ``(f ) When flags of States, cities, or localities, or pennants of 
societies are flown on the same halyard with the flag of the United 
States, the latter should always be at the peak. When the flags are 
flown from adjacent staffs, the flag of the United States should be 
hoisted first and lowered last. No such flag or pennant may be placed 
above the flag of the United States or to the United States flag 's 
right.
    ``(g) When flags of two or more nations are displayed, they are to 
be flown from separate staffs of the same height. The flags should be of 
approximately equal size. International usage forbids the display of the 
flag of one nation above that of another nation in time of peace.
    ``(h) When the flag of the United States is displayed from a staff 
projecting horizontally or at an angle from the window

[[Page 112 STAT. 1496]]

sill, balcony, or front of a building, the union of the flag should be 
placed at the peak of the staff unless the flag is at half-staff. When 
the flag is suspended over a sidewalk from a rope extending from a house 
to a pole at the edge of the sidewalk, the flag should be hoisted out, 
union first, from the building.
    ``(i) When displayed either horizontally or vertically against a 
wall, the union should be uppermost and to the flag 's own right, that 
is, to the observer's left. When displayed in a window, the flag should 
be displayed in the same way, with the union or blue field to the left 
of the observer in the street.
    ``(j) When the flag is displayed over the middle of the street, it 
should be suspended vertically with the union to the north in an east 
and west street or to the east in a north and south street.
    ``(k) When used on a speaker's platform, the flag, if displayed 
flat, should be displayed above and behind the speaker. When displayed 
from a staff in a church or public auditorium, the flag of the United 
States of America should hold the position of superior prominence, in 
advance of the audience, and in the position of honor at the clergyman's 
or speaker's right as he faces the audience. Any other flag so displayed 
should be placed on the left of the clergyman or speaker or to the right 
of the audience.
    ``(l) The flag should form a distinctive feature of the ceremony of 
unveiling a statue or monument, but it should never be used as the 
covering for the statue or monument.
    ``(m) The flag, when flown at half-staff, should be first hoisted to 
the peak for an instant and then lowered to the half-staff position. The 
flag should be again raised to the peak before it is lowered for the 
day. On Memorial Day the flag should be displayed at half-staff until 
noon only, then raised to the top of the staff. By order of the 
President, the flag shall be flown at half-staff upon the death of 
principal figures of the United States Government and the Governor of a 
State, territory, or possession, as a mark of respect to their memory. 
In the event of the death of other officials or foreign dignitaries, the 
flag is to be displayed at half-staff according to Presidential 
instructions or orders, or in accordance with recognized customs or 
practices not inconsistent with law. In the event of the death of a 
present or former official of the government of any State, territory, or 
possession of the United States, the Governor of that State, territory, 
or possession may proclaim that the National flag shall be flown at 
half-staff. The flag shall be flown at half-staff 30 days from the death 
of the President or a former President; 10 days from the day of death of 
the Vice President, the Chief Justice or a retired Chief Justice of the 
United States, or the Speaker of the House of Representatives; from the 
day of death until interment of an Associate Justice of the Supreme 
Court, a Secretary of an executive or military department, a former Vice 
President, or the Governor of a State, territory, or possession; and on 
the day of death and the following day for a Member of Congress. The 
flag shall be flown at half-staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day, unless 
that day is also Armed Forces Day. As used in this subsection--
            ``(1) the term `half-staff' means the position of the flag 
        when it is one-half the distance between the top and bottom of 
        the staff;

[[Page 112 STAT. 1497]]

            ``(2) the term `executive or military department' means any 
        agency listed under sections 101 and 102 of title 5, United 
        States Code; and
            ``(3) the term `Member of Congress' means a Senator, a 
        Representative, a Delegate, or the Resident Commissioner from 
        Puerto Rico.

    ``(n) When the flag is used to cover a casket, it should be so 
placed that the union is at the head and over the left shoulder. The 
flag should not be lowered into the grave or allowed to touch the 
ground.
    ``(o) When the flag is suspended across a corridor or lobby in a 
building with only one main entrance, it should be suspended vertically 
with the union of the flag to the observer's left upon entering. If the 
building has more than one main entrance, the flag should be suspended 
vertically near the center of the corridor or lobby with the union to 
the north, when entrances are to the east and west or to the east when 
entrances are to the north and south. If there are entrances in more 
than two directions, the union should be to the east.

``Sec. 8. Respect for flag

    ``No disrespect should be shown to the flag of the United States of 
America; the flag should not be dipped to any person or thing. 
Regimental colors, State flags, and organization or institutional flags 
are to be dipped as a mark of honor.
    ``(a) The flag should never be displayed with the union down, except 
as a signal of dire distress in instances of extreme danger to life or 
property.
    ``(b) The flag should never touch anything beneath it, such as the 
ground, the floor, water, or merchandise.
    ``(c) The flag should never be carried flat or horizontally, but 
always aloft and free.
    ``(d) The flag should never be used as wearing apparel, bedding, or 
drapery. It should never be festooned, drawn back, nor up, in folds, but 
always allowed to fall free. Bunting of blue, white, and red, always 
arranged with the blue above, the white in the middle, and the red 
below, should be used for covering a speaker's desk, draping the front 
of the platform, and for decoration in general.
    ``(e) The flag should never be fastened, displayed, used, or stored 
in such a manner as to permit it to be easily torn, soiled, or damaged 
in any way.
    ``(f ) The flag should never be used as a covering for a ceiling.
    ``(g) The flag should never have placed upon it, nor on any part of 
it, nor attached to it any mark, insignia, letter, word, figure, design, 
picture, or drawing of any nature.
    ``(h) The flag should never be used as a receptacle for receiving, 
holding, carrying, or delivering anything.
    ``(i) The flag should never be used for advertising purposes in any 
manner whatsoever. It should not be embroidered on such articles as 
cushions or handkerchiefs and the like, printed or otherwise impressed 
on paper napkins or boxes or anything that is designed for temporary use 
and discard. Advertising signs should not be fastened to a staff or 
halyard from which the flag is flown.
    ``( j) No part of the flag should ever be used as a costume or 
athletic uniform. However, a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of 
military personnel, firemen, policemen, and members

[[Page 112 STAT. 1498]]

of patriotic organizations. The flag represents a living country and is 
itself considered a living thing. Therefore, the lapel flag pin being a 
replica, should be worn on the left lapel near the heart.
    ``(k) The flag, when it is in such condition that it is no longer a 
fitting emblem for display, should be destroyed in a dignified way, 
preferably by burning.

``Sec. 9. Conduct during hoisting, lowering or passing of flag

    ``During the ceremony of hoisting or lowering the flag or when the 
flag is passing in a parade or in review, all persons present except 
those in uniform should face the flag and stand at attention with the 
right hand over the heart. Those present in uniform should render the 
military salute. When not in uniform, men should remove their headdress 
with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being 
over the heart. Aliens should stand at attention. The salute to the flag 
in a moving column should be rendered at the moment the flag passes.

``Sec. 10. Modification of rules and customs by President

    ``Any rule or custom pertaining to the display of the flag of the 
United States of America, set forth herein, may be altered, modified, or 
repealed, or additional rules with respect thereto may be prescribed, by 
the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, 
whenever he deems it to be appropriate or desirable; and any such 
alteration or additional rule shall be set forth in a proclamation.''.
    (b) The analysis of chapter 1 of title 4, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new items:

 ``4.  Pledge of allegiance to the flag; manner of delivery.
 ``5.  Display and use of flag by civilians; codification of rules and 
           customs; definition.
 ``6.  Time and occasions for display.
 ``7.  Position and manner of display.
 ``8.  Respect for flag.
 ``9.  Conduct during hoisting, lowering or passing of flag.
``10.  Modification of rules and customs by President.''.

SEC. 3. CONFORMING PROVISIONS.

    Section 1332 of title 44, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``the United Spanish War Veterans,''.

SEC. 4. CONFORMING CROSS-REFERENCES.

    (a) Title 10.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 2249b, strike ``the provisions of section 3 
        of the Joint Resolution of June 22, 1942 (56 Stat. 378, chapter 
        435; 36 U.S.C. 175), and any modification of such provisions 
        under section 8 of that Joint Resolution (36 U.S.C. 178)'' and 
        substitute ``section 7 of title 4 and any modification of 
        section 7 under section 10 of title 4''.
            (2) Section 2543 is amended as follows:
                    (A) In subsection (e)(1), strike ``subsection (b)(2) 
                of the first section of the Presidential Inaugural 
                Ceremonies Act (36 U.S.C. 721)'' and substitute 
                ``section 501 of title 36''.
                    (B) In subsection (e)(2), strike ``the proviso in 
                section 9 of the Presidential Inaugural Ceremonies Act 
                (36 U.S.C. 729)'' and substitute ``section 507 of title 
                36''.

[[Page 112 STAT. 1499]]

            (3) In section 9441(b), strike ``section 2 of the Act of 
        July 1, 1946 (36 U.S.C. 202)'' and substitute ``section 40302 of 
        title 36''.

    (b) Title 18.--Section 2320(d) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In clause (1)(B), strike ``section 110 of the Olympic 
        Charter Act'' and substitute ``section 220706 of title 36''.
            (2) In clause (2), insert ``and'' after the semicolon.
            (3) In clause (3), strike ``; and'' and substitute a period.
            (4) Strike clause (4).

SEC. 5. LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION. <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 
            101.>> 

    (a) No Substantive Change.--Sections 1 and 2 of this Act restate, 
without substantive change, laws enacted before August 16, 1997, that 
were replaced by those sections. Those sections may not be construed as 
making a substantive change in the laws replaced. Laws enacted after 
August 15, 1997, that are inconsistent with this Act supersede this Act 
to the extent of the inconsistency.
    (b) References.--A reference to a law replaced by section 1 or 2 of 
this Act, including a reference in a regulation, order, or other law, is 
deemed to refer to the corresponding provision enacted by this Act.
    (c) Continuing Effect.--An order, rule, or regulation in effect 
under a law replaced by section 1 or 2 of this Act continues in effect 
under the corresponding provision enacted by this Act until repealed, 
amended, or superseded.
    (d) Actions and Offenses Under Prior Law.--An action taken or an 
offense committed under a law replaced by section 1 or 2 of this Act is 
deemed to have been taken or committed under the corresponding provision 
enacted by this Act.
    (e) Inferences.--An inference of a legislative construction is not 
to be drawn by reason of the location in the United States Code of a 
provision enacted by this Act or by reason of a caption or catch line of 
the provision.
    (f ) Severability.--If a provision enacted by this Act is held 
invalid, all valid provisions that are severable from the invalid 
provision remain in effect. If a provision enacted by this Act is held 
invalid in any of its applications, the provision remains valid for all 
valid applications that are severable from any of the invalid 
applications.

SEC. 6. REPEALS.

    (a) Inferences <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 101.>> of Repeal.--The 
repeal of a law by this Act may not be construed as a legislative 
inference that the provision was or was not in effect before its repeal.

    (b) Repealer <<NOTE: 36 USC note prec. 101.>> Schedule.--The laws 
specified in the following schedule are repealed, except for rights and 
duties that matured, penalties that were incurred, and proceedings that 
were begun before the date of enactment of this Act:

[[Page 112 STAT. 1500]]



                                                                Schedule of Laws Repealed
                                                                    Statutes at Large
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                         Statutes at Large               U.S. Code
                 Date                     Chapter or Public Law              Section            --------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 Volume            Page            Title      Section
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 1863
Mar. 3                                  111.....................  .............................      12  806.....................    36          251-253
                 1870
July 14                                 264.....................  .............................      16  277.....................    36              252
                 1884
June 20                                 107.....................  .............................      23  50......................    36              254
                 1889
Jan. 4                                  20......................  .............................      25  640.....................    36               20
                 1896
Feb. 20                                 23......................  .............................      29  8.......................    36           18-18c
                 1900
June 6                                  806.....................  .............................      31  662.....................    36        4401-4408
                 1901
Mar. 3                                  860.....................  .............................      31  1438....................    36        3501-3504
                                        876.....................  .............................      31  1453....................    36       5401, 5402
                 1904
Apr. 28                                 1790....................  .............................      33  542.....................    36             3504
                 1905
Jan. 5                                  23......................  1-3, 4a-8....................      33  599, 601................    36   1, 2, 3, 4a-6,
                                                                                                                                                    8, 9
                 1906
June 9                                  3065....................  .............................      34  227.....................    36          20a-20g
June 30                                 3929....................  .............................      34  804.....................    36        5301-5311
                 1910
June 23                                 372.....................  2............................      36  604.....................    36                9
                 1912
Dec. 10                                 1.......................  .............................      37  647.....................    36                5
                 1913
Jan. 30                                 21......................  .............................      37  654.....................    36       4901, 4901
                                                                                                                                             note, 4902-
                                                                                                                                                    4910
                 1914
May 8                                   Pub. R. 25..............  .............................      38  770.....................    36         141, 142
May 27                                  101.....................  .............................      38  383.....................    36    254, 254 note
                 1915
Mar. 3                                  89......................  .............................      38  955.....................    36              18a
                 1916
Apr. 17                                 77......................  .............................      39  51......................    36        4201-4206
June 15                                 148.....................  .............................      39  227.....................    36            21-29
                 1917
Feb. 27                                 137.....................  .............................      39  946.....................    36                6
                 1919
Sept. 16                                59......................  .............................      41  284.....................    36            41-51
                 1920
May 29                                  214.....................  (1st complete par. on p. 659)      41  659.....................    36                7
May 31                                  216.....................  .............................      41  691.....................    36        4701-4707
                 1921
Mar. 3                                  131.....................  .............................      41  1354....................    36                5
                 1922
Apr. 6                                  121.....................  .............................      42  490.....................    36             3502
                 1923
Mar. 3                                  228.....................  .............................      42  1441....................    36            61-66
Mar. 4                                  283.....................  .............................      42  1509....................    36   121, 122b, 123-
                                                                                                                                          125, 127, 128,
                                                                                                                                          131, 132, 138-
                                                                                                                                                    138c
                 1924
Apr. 2                                  81......................  1 (2d, last provisos in par.       43  35......................    36         122, 133
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 7                                  292.....................  1 (provisos in par. under          43  522.....................    36         122, 133
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                                        296.....................  .............................      43  535.....................    36            81-88
                                        369.....................  .............................      43  665.....................    36               15

[[Page 112 STAT. 1501]]

 
                 1925
Feb. 6                                  142.....................  .............................      43  808.....................    36              20d
Feb. 24                                 303.....................  .............................      43  966.....................    36           91-105
                 1926
Feb. 5                                  11......................  .............................      44  4.......................    36              18a
Apr. 22                                 171.....................  1 (2d-last provisos in par.        44  307.....................    36     122, 133-135
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
May 5                                   246.....................  .............................      44  403.....................    36               14
                 1927
Feb. 11                                 104.....................  1 (provisos in par. under          44  1071....................    36     122, 133-137
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1928
May 16                                  580.....................  1 (provisos in par. under          45  575.....................    36    122, 134, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
May 18                                  643.....................  .............................      45  617.....................    36              143
                 1929
Feb. 20                                 270.....................  1 (1st, 2d, last provisos in       45  1231, 1232..............    36    122, 134, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 14                                 23......................  .............................      46  11......................    36             4902
                 1930
Feb. 7                                  42......................  .............................      46  66......................    36               13
Apr. 19                                 201.....................  1 (1st, 2d, last provisos in       46  230, 231................    36    122, 134, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                 1931
Feb. 23                                 281.....................  1 (1st, 2d, last provisos in       46  1356....................    36    122, 134, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Mar. 3                                  436.....................  .............................      46  1508....................    36              170
                 1932
June 17                                 268.....................  .............................      47  320.....................    36          90a-90k
June 30                                 330.....................  1 (1st, 2d, last provisos in       47  454.....................    36    122, 134, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                 1933
Mar. 3                                  214.....................  .............................      47  1544....................    36               16
May 20                                  36......................  .............................      48  73......................    36              145
June 16                                 101.....................  1 (1st, last provisos in par.      48  285.....................    36         122, 135
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                 1934
Apr. 30                                 184.....................  .............................      48  657.....................    36              146
June 7                                  425.....................  .............................      48  925.....................    36       3502, 3504
                 1935
Feb. 2                                  3.......................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       49  7.......................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 28                                 323.....................  1, 2.........................      49  426.....................    36    491, 491 note
July 5                                  373.....................  .............................      49  457.....................    36        3301-3310
Aug. 12                                 508.....................  1 (par. under heading              49  594.....................    36         491 note
                                                                   ``Memorial to Personnel of
                                                                   American Expeditionary
                                                                   Forces'').
                 1936
Mar. 19                                 156.....................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       49  1169....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
May 28                                  471.....................  .............................      49  1390....................    36          111-120

[[Page 112 STAT. 1502]]

 
June 15                                 546.....................  .............................      49  1501....................    36         139-139b
June 23                                 736.....................  .............................      49  1895....................    36         147, 148
                 1937
June 14                                 336.....................  .............................      50  257.....................    36        5305-5308
June 28                                 396.....................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       50  331.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Aug. 4                                  564.....................  .............................      50  558.....................    36            57-59
Aug. 16                                 666.....................  .............................      50  668.....................    36              149
Aug. 25                                 762.....................  .............................      50  798.....................    36       3201, 3201
                                                                                                                                             note, 3202-
                                                                                                                                                    3209
                 1938
Mar. 28                                 56......................  .............................      52  148.....................    36              150
May 23                                  259.....................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       52  412.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 29                                 796.....................  .............................      52  1226....................    36       5401, 5402
                 1939
Mar. 16                                 11......................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       53  525.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
May 11                                  123.....................  .............................      53  739.....................    36              151
                 1940
Apr. 18                                 107.....................  1 (1st, 3d, last provisos in       54  113.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   par. under heading
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 6                                  239.....................  .............................      54  232.....................    36   140, 140 note,
                                                                                                                                               140a-140c
Sept. 24                                730.....................  .............................      54  960.....................    36         149 note
Oct. 10                                 840.....................  .............................      54  1093....................    36             151a
                 1941
Apr. 5                                  40......................  1 (provisos in par. under          55  95......................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1942
June 22                                 435.....................  .............................      56  377.....................    36          171-178
June 27                                 450.....................  1 (provisos in par. under          56  395.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 15                                 505.....................  .............................      56  659.....................    36   90a, 90c, 90e-
                                                                                                                                                     90j
July 30                                 537.....................  .............................      56  728.....................    36         149 note
Sept. 26                                563.....................  .............................      56  758.....................    36               97
Oct. 17                                 615.....................  .............................      56  796.....................    36          179-182
Oct. 29                                 633.....................  .............................      56  1012....................    36           43, 45
Dec. 22                                 806.....................  .............................      56  1074....................    36          171-178
                 1943
June 26                                 145.....................  101 (provisos in par. under        57  171.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1944
June 27                                 286.....................  101 (provisos in par. under        58  363.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1945
May 3                                   106.....................  101 (provisos in par. under        59  107.....................    36   121a, 122, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').

[[Page 112 STAT. 1503]]

 
Aug. 11                                 363.....................  .............................      59  530.....................    36              155
Dec. 28                                 607.....................  .............................      59  668.....................    36              172
                 1946
Mar. 28                                 113.....................  101 (provisos in par. under        60  62......................    36        121a, 135
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
June 26                                 502.....................  .............................      60  317, 318................    36    121, 123-125,
                                                                                                                                          127, 128, 131,
                                                                                                                                           132, 138-138b
July 1                                  527.....................  .............................      60  346.....................    36          201-208
July 9                                  546.....................  .............................      60  524.....................    36               45
                 1947
May 8                                   50......................  .............................      61  80......................    36   1 note, 1a, 2,
                                                                                                                                             3, 4a, 5, 9
July 23                                 298.....................  .............................      61  403.....................    36           67-67s
                 1948
Apr. 20                                 219.....................  101 (last proviso in par.          62  179.....................    36              122
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
June 30                                 755.....................  .............................      62  1150....................    36              156
                 1949
July 11                                 302.....................  .............................      63  409.....................    36       155a, 155b
Aug. 3                                  385.....................  .............................      63  492.....................    36              157
Aug. 24                                 506.....................  101 (last proviso in par.          63  633.....................    36              122
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                 1950
Mar. 16                                 62......................  .............................      64  22......................    36           31-38a
May 11                                  182.....................  .............................      64  158.....................    36             169g
June 30                                 431.....................  1-14, 16-19..................      64  312, 315................    36    221-234, 236-
                                                                                                                                                     239
Aug. 30                                 823.....................  1-13, 15-21..................      64  563, 566................    36    271-283, 285-
                                                                                                                                                     291
Sept. 6                                 896.....................  101 (last proviso in par.          64  699.....................    36              122
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Sept. 20                                956.....................  .............................      64  868.....................    36          311-317
                                        958.....................  1-8, 10-12...................      64  869, 872................    36    341-348, 350-
                                                                                                                                                     352
Sept. 21                                975.....................  .............................      64  899.....................    36   371-382b, 391-
                                                                                                                                                     396
Dec. 28                                 1177....................  .............................      64  1122....................    36               45
                                        1178....................  .............................      64  1122....................    36              67e
                 1951
Apr. 16                                 29......................  .............................      65  31......................    36               39
July 30                                 255.....................  .............................      65  130.....................    36              18a
Aug. 17                                 328.....................  .............................      65  192.....................    36               36
Aug. 31                                 376.....................  101 (provisos in 1st par.          65  269.....................    36              122
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Oct. 27                                 593.....................  .............................      65  659.....................    36              158
                 1952
Feb. 29                                 49......................  1............................      66  9.......................    36              153
Apr. 3                                  131.....................  1-15, 17-21..................      66  37, 41..................    36    401-415, 417-
                                                                                                                                                     421
Apr. 17                                 216.....................  .............................      66  64......................    36             169h
July 5                                  578.....................  101 (provisos in 1st par.          66  395.....................    36        121b, 122
                                                                   under heading ``American
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                 1953
May 21                                  63......................  1............................      67  27......................    36             4702
May 27                                  70......................  .............................      67  35......................    36          179-182
May 29                                  85......................  .............................      67  40......................    36         111, 115
June 26                                 152.....................  .............................      67  81......................    36           97, 98
                                        153.....................  .............................      67  82......................    36           44, 48
July 9                                  183.....................  .............................      67  142.....................    36              175

[[Page 112 STAT. 1504]]

 
July 17                                 222.....................  4-6..........................      67  179.....................    36     3, 6, 7, 10,
                                                                                                                                                      11
July 31                                 302.....................  101 (provisos in par. under        67  299.....................    36        121b, 122
                                                                   heading ``American Battle
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Aug. 5                                  326.....................  (1st, 2d pars., 3d par. (a)-       67  366.....................    36              426
                                                                   (f ), (h), (i), 4th, last
                                                                   pars.).
Aug. 13                                 427.....................  1-13, 15-17..................      67  562, 565................    36    431-443, 445-
                                                                                                                                                     447
                                        429.....................  1-14, 16-19..................      67  569, 573................    36    461-474, 476-
                                                                                                                                                     479
Aug. 14                                 486.....................  .............................      67  582.....................    36       34, 35, 37
                 1954
June 14                                 297.....................  .............................      68  249.....................    36              172
June 24                                 359.....................  101 (provisos in pars. under       68  275.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                  122a, 125a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 19                                 536.....................  1-13, 15-18..................      68  489, 492................    36    501-513, 515-
                                                                                                                                                     518
Aug. 3                                  655.....................  5............................      68  665.....................    36             155a
Aug. 20                                 774.....................  1-14, 16-20..................      68  748, 752................    36    531-544, 546-
                                                                                                                                                     550
Aug. 24                                 911.....................  1-13, 15-19..................      68  795, 800................    36    571-583, 585-
                                                                                                                                                     589
Aug. 28                                 1036....................  1-13, 15-17..................      68  891, 895................    36    601-613, 615-
                                                                                                                                                     617
                 1955
June 29                                 226.....................  (provisos in pars. under           69  194.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 26                                 383.....................  .............................      69  375.....................    36              67e
                                        386.....................  .............................      69  379.....................    36           43, 45
Aug. 4                                  546.....................  1-13, 15-17..................      69  486, 490................    36    631-643, 645-
                                                                                                                                                     647
Aug. 9                                  658.....................  .............................      69  589.....................    36              426
                 1956
Mar. 29                                 102.....................  .............................      70  60......................    36             4707
June 13                                 385.....................  (provisos in par. under            70  278.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 25                                 721.....................  .............................      70  640.....................    36   121, 122b, 123-
                                                                                                                                          125, 131, 132,
                                                                                                                                              138, 138a,
                                                                                                                                                    138b
July 30                                 795.....................  .............................      70  732.....................    36              186
Aug. 1                                  824.....................  1-13, 15-20..................      70  794, 797................    36    661-673, 675-
                                                                                                                                                     680
Aug. 2                                  875.....................  .............................      70  932.....................    36              159
Aug. 6                                  974.....................  1-5, 7-10....................      70  1049, 1050..............    36    721-725, 727-
                                                                                                                                                     730
                                        976.....................  1-13, 15-17..................      70  1052, 1056..............    36    691-703, 705-
                                                                                                                                                     707
                 1957
May 16                                  85-32...................  .............................      71  30......................    36              160
June 5                                  85-48...................  101 (provisos in par. under        71  52......................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 3                                  85-83...................  1............................      71  276.....................    36               20
Aug. 13                                 85-125..................  .............................      71  344.....................    36         123 note
Aug. 28                                 85-179..................  .............................      71  457.....................    36              426
Sept. 7                                 85-305..................  1-7, 9.......................      71  626, 628................    36     741-747, 749
                 1958
June 4                                  85-445..................  .............................      72  179.....................    36              161
June 25                                 85-468..................  (provisos in par. under            72  223.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 18                                 85-529..................  .............................      72  369.....................    36              162
                                        85-530..................  1-14, 16-20..................      72  370, 374................    36    761-774, 776-
                                                                                                                                                     780

[[Page 112 STAT. 1505]]

 
July 25                                 85-556..................  .............................      72  416.....................    36              426
Aug. 14                                 85-642..................  1-13, 15-17..................      72  597, 600................    36    791-803, 805-
                                                                                                                                                     807
Aug. 26                                 85-761..................  1-13, 15-17..................      72  854, 859................    36    821-833, 835-
                                                                                                                                                     837
Aug. 27                                 85-769..................  1-13, 15-18..................      72  922, 927................    36    851-863, 865-
                                                                                                                                                     868
Sept. 2                                 85-870..................  1-13, 15-18..................      72  1691, 1694..............    36    881-893, 895-
                                                                                                                                                     898
                                        85-903..................  1-12, 14-16..................      72  1738, 1741..............    36    911-922, 924-
                                                                                                                                                     926
                                        85-918..................  .............................      72  1769....................    36              749
                 1959
June 17                                 86-47...................  1-13, 15-18..................      73  76, 79..................    36     78-78l, 78n-
                                                                                                                                                     78q
July 8                                  86-79...................  (provisos in par. under            73  164.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Sept. 22                                86-352..................  .............................      73  627.....................    36    143, 143 note
                 1960
June 29                                 86-533..................  (23).........................      74  249.....................    36             139b
July 12                                 86-642..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        74  475.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 14                                 86-653..................  1-13, 15-18..................      74  515, 518................    36    941-953, 955-
                                                                                                                                                     958
Aug. 31                                 86-680..................  1-13, 15-18..................      74  572, 577................    36    971-983, 985-
                                                                                                                                                     988
Sept. 13                                86-753..................  .............................      74  898.....................    36              163
                                        86-772..................  .............................      74  913.....................    36             155a
                 1961
Apr. 7                                  87-20...................  .............................      75  43......................    36              164
June 21                                 87-56...................  .............................      75  95......................    36    633, 636, 648
Aug. 3                                  87-125..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        75  279.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Sept. 8                                 87-214..................  .............................      75  489.....................    36              20c
Sept. 26                                87-319..................  .............................      75  681.....................    36              165
                 1962
May 14                                  87-449..................  .............................      76  69......................    36              166
July 25                                 87-547..................  6............................      76  217.....................    36             4703
Sept. 7                                 87-650..................  1-14, 16-20..................      76  502, 505................    36       1001-1014,
                                                                                                                                               1016-1020
Sept. 10                                87-655..................  1-13, 15-19..................      76  530, 533................    36       1041-1053,
                                                                                                                                               1055-1059
Sept. 19                                87-673..................  .............................      76  557.....................    36             4909
Oct. 1                                  87-726..................  .............................      76  676.....................    36              167
Oct. 9                                  87-780..................  .............................      76  779.....................    36              168
Oct. 15                                 87-817..................  1-13, 15-18..................      76  929, 933................    36       3401-3413,
                                                                                                                                               3415-3418
Oct. 18                                 87-843..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        76  1100....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1963
Aug. 27                                 88-105..................  2............................      77  130.....................    36              776
Dec. 17                                 88-209..................  .............................      77  402.....................    36              169
Dec. 23                                 88-240..................  .............................      77  477.....................    36    426, 426 note
Dec. 30                                 88-242..................  .............................      77  629.....................    36             169a
                                        88-245..................  (provisos in par. under            77  796.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                                        88-254..................  .............................      77  843.....................    36             169b
                 1964
June 24                                 88-321..................  .............................      78  221.....................    36             155a
July 14                                 88-372..................  .............................      78  314.....................    36        4301-4318

[[Page 112 STAT. 1506]]

 
                                        88-376..................  .............................      78  320.....................    36        4501-4517
July 16                                 88-378..................  .............................      78  325.....................    36        1071-1088
Aug. 10                                 88-407..................  .............................      78  383.....................    36              383
Aug. 19                                 88-449..................  .............................      78  496.....................    36        4601-4617
Aug. 30                                 88-504..................  1-4(15), (17)-(38)...........      78  635, 637................    36      28, 37, 49,
                                                                                                                                            58, 65, 78m,
                                                                                                                                          90i, 101, 118,
                                                                                                                                              140c, 235,
                                                                                                                                          284, 317, 349,
                                                                                                                                          444, 475, 514,
                                                                                                                                          545, 584, 614,
                                                                                                                                          644, 674, 704,
                                                                                                                                          775, 804, 834,
                                                                                                                                          864, 894, 923,
                                                                                                                                               954, 984,
                                                                                                                                             1015, 1054,
                                                                                                                                              1101-1103,
                                                                                                                                             3208, 3308,
                                                                                                                                                    3414
Aug. 31                                 88-527..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        78  731.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Sept. 2                                 88-566..................  .............................      78  849.....................    36             169c
Oct. 6                                  88-628..................  .............................      78  1003....................    36             169d
                 1965
Sept. 2                                 89-164..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        79  639.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Oct. 1                                  89-231..................  .............................      79  901.....................    36       4902, 4909
Nov. 8                                  89-333..................  14...........................      79  1294....................    36             155a
                 1966
June 9                                  89-443..................  .............................      80  194.....................    36             157a
Sept. 1                                 89-550..................  .............................      80  371.....................    36           43, 45
Sept. 14                                89-576..................  .............................      80  772.....................    36              67e
Nov. 2                                  89-703..................  .............................      80  1099....................    36             169e
Nov. 8                                  89-797..................  (provisos in par. under            80  1501....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1967
Nov. 8                                  90-133..................  (provisos in par. under            81  429.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Dec. 18                                 90-208..................  .............................      81  655.....................    36    90i, 91i note
                 1968
Jan. 30                                 90-251..................  .............................      82  4.......................    36   722, 723, 728,
                                                                                                                                                     730
July 5                                  90-382..................  .............................      82  292.....................    36         401, 418
July 7                                  90-391..................  14...........................      82  306.....................    36             155a
Aug. 9                                  90-470..................  (provisos in par. under            82  686.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Sept. 17                                90-498..................  .............................      82  848.....................    36             169f
                 1969
June 30                                 91-37...................  .............................      83  42......................    36      5303, 5306,
                                                                                                                                              5307, 5307
                                                                                                                                                    note
Dec. 24                                 91-153..................  (provisos in par. under            83  421.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1970
Oct. 8                                  91-442..................  .............................      84  914.....................    36              155
Oct. 21                                 91-472..................  (provisos in par. under            84  1058....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                                        91-480..................  .............................      84  1081....................    36              121
                 1971
Aug. 10                                 92-77...................  (provisos in par. under            85  264.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').

[[Page 112 STAT. 1507]]

 
Aug. 11                                 92-93...................  .............................      85  317.....................    36        1151-1167
                 1972
Apr. 24                                 92-278..................  .............................      86  124.....................    36             142a
Sept. 29                                92-447..................  .............................      86  746.....................    36             4605
Oct. 25                                 92-544..................  (provisos in par. under            86  1128....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1973
Nov. 27                                 93-162..................  (provisos in par. under            87  653.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1974
Jan. 2                                  93-244..................  .............................      87  1070....................    36              125
Apr. 12                                 93-266..................  .............................      88  85......................    36       4904, 4906
                                        93-267..................  .............................      88  85......................    36               97
Sept. 6                                 93-414..................  (provisos in par. under            88  1099....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Nov. 29                                 93-504..................  .............................      88  1575....................    36             1042
Dec. 26                                 93-551..................  .............................      88  1744....................    36             1073
Dec. 27                                 93-557..................  .............................      88  1792....................    36               45
                 1975
June 13                                 94-33...................  .............................      89  211.....................    36             157b
Oct. 17                                 94-116..................  (provisos in 1st par. under        89  587.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Dec. 15                                 94-151..................  .............................      89  809.....................    36       1101, 3502
                 1976
Apr. 1                                  94-256..................  .............................      90  301.....................    36              121
Apr. 21                                 94-273..................  3(19)........................      90  377.....................    36              131
July 7                                  94-344..................  .............................      90  810.....................    36          171-178
Aug. 9                                  94-378..................  (provisos in par. under            90  1098....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Oct. 1                                  94-443..................  .............................      90  1475....................    36         18a, 18c
                 1977
Aug. 15                                 95-98...................  .............................      91  830.....................    36     67, 67 note,
                                                                                                                                          67a, 67b, 67e,
                                                                                                                                            67h, 67p-67r
Oct. 4                                  95-119..................  (provisos in par. under            91  1077....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Nov. 11                                 95-167..................  .............................      91  1347....................    36   881, 883, 885,
                                                                                                                                          887, 895, 896,
                                                                                                                                                    1101
                 1978
Aug. 17                                 95-346..................  .............................      92  485.....................    36               45
Sept. 30                                95-392..................  (provisos in par. under            92  795.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Oct. 18                                 95-479..................  306..........................      92  1566....................    36              121
                                        95-482..................  113..........................      92  1605....................    36              384
Oct. 20                                 95-493..................  .............................      92  1643....................    36        1201-1219
Nov. 8                                  95-606..................  .............................      92  3045....................    36   371, 371 note,
                                                                                                                                          372-382b, 391-
                                                                                                                                                     396
                 1979
Sept. 6                                 96-62...................  .............................      93  410.....................    36             142b
Nov. 5                                  96-103..................  (provisos in par. under            93  775.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Dec. 21                                 96-155..................  .............................      93  1165....................    36               45
Dec. 29                                 96-165..................  .............................      93  1267....................    36      1101, 1301-
                                                                                                                                                    1309
                 1980
July 8                                  96-304..................  (last sentence in par. under       94  898.....................    36         393 note
                                                                   heading ``Salaries and
                                                                   Expenses'').

[[Page 112 STAT. 1508]]

 
Oct. 3                                  96-376..................  9............................      94  1510....................    36              161
Oct. 7                                  96-385..................  506..........................      94  1537....................    36              121
                                        96-388..................  .............................      94  1547....................    36        1401-1411
Dec. 2                                  96-489..................  .............................      94  2553....................    36      1101, 1501-
                                                                                                                                                    1514
Dec. 4                                  96-497..................  .............................      94  2595....................    36      1101, 1601-
                                                                                                                                                    1614
Dec. 15                                 96-526..................  (provisos in par. under            94  3050....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1981
Nov. 20                                 97-82...................  .............................      95  1091....................    36      1101, 1701-
                                                                                                                                                    1715
                                        97-83...................  .............................      95  1094....................    36      1101, 1801-
                                                                                                                                                    1815
                                        97-84...................  .............................      95  1097....................    36       1402, 1405
Dec. 23                                 97-101..................  (provisos in par. under            95  1422....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1982
June 1                                  97-192..................  .............................      96  109.....................    36      1101, 1901-
                                                                                                                                                    1914
Aug. 9                                  97-231..................  .............................      96  256.....................    36      1101, 2001-
                                                                                                                                                    2015
Aug. 10                                 97-234..................  .............................      96  261.....................    36      1101, 2101-
                                                                                                                                                    2116
Sept. 30                                97-272..................  (provisos in par. under            96  1165....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1983
Jan. 8                                  97-427..................  .............................      96  2265....................    36      1101, 2201-
                                                                                                                                                    2215
Jan. 12                                 97-447..................  .............................      96  2364....................    36             1219
July 12                                 98-45...................  (provisos in par. under            97  224.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
                 1984
Apr. 10                                 98-257..................  .............................      98  127.....................    36      1101, 2301-
                                                                                                                                                    2316
May 21                                  98-291..................  .............................      98  203.....................    36              90i
May 31                                  98-304..................  .............................      98  220.....................    36              67e
June 12                                 98-314..................  .............................      98  237.....................    36      1101, 2401-
                                                                                                                                                    2415
July 18                                 98-371..................  (provisos in par. under            98  1221....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
July 23                                 98-372..................  .............................      98  1239....................    36      1101, 2501-
                                                                                                                                                    2515
Aug. 7                                  98-375..................  .............................      98  1257....................    36         146 note
Aug. 17                                 98-382..................  .............................      98  1343....................    36      1101, 2601-
                                                                                                                                                    2615
Aug. 21                                 98-391..................  .............................      98  1358....................    36      1101, 2701-
                                                                                                                                                    2715
Aug. 27                                 98-399..................  .............................      98  1473....................    36     169j-169j-10
Oct. 19                                 98-520..................  .............................      98  2428....................    36      1101, 2801-
                                                                                                                                                    2815
Oct. 30                                 98-561..................  .............................      98  2910....................    36      1101, 2901-
                                                                                                                                                    2916
                                        98-565..................  .............................      98  2920....................    36      1101, 3001-
                                                                                                                                                    3016
                                        98-584..................  .............................      98  3097....................    36      1101, 3101-
                                                                                                                                                    3115
                 1985
Oct. 7                                  99-119..................  .............................      99  498.....................    36      1101, 3601-
                                                                                                                                                    3616
Nov. 25                                 99-160..................  (1st-3d provisos in par.           99  914.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Dec. 9                                  99-172..................  .............................      99  1020....................    36      1101, 3701-
                                                                                                                                                    3715

[[Page 112 STAT. 1509]]

 
Dec. 19                                 99-190..................  101(d) [provisos in par.           99  1262, 1267..............    36       1401, 1404
                                                                   under heading ``United                                                    note, 1407,
                                                                   States Holocaust Memorial                                                  1409, 1410
                                                                   Council''), Sec.  324].
                 1986
May 1                                   99-284..................  .............................     100  406.....................    36    169j-2, 169j-
                                                                                                                                              3, 169j-7,
                                                                                                                                                  169j-8
May 23                                  99-318..................  .............................     100  474.....................    36      1101, 3801-
                                                                                                                                                    3817
Aug. 7                                  99-376..................  .............................     100  804.....................    36             3501
Aug. 27                                 99-402..................  .............................     100  910.....................    36       169i, 169i
                                                                                                                                           notes, 169i-1
Oct. 7                                  99-449..................  .............................     100  1128....................    36              187
Oct. 18                                 99-500..................  101(g) [(1st-3d provisos in       100  1783-242, 1783-283......    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   par. under heading                                                         122a, 1404
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments                                                      note
                                                                   Commission'' in title II of
                                                                   H.R. 5313)], (h) [(1st, 2d,
                                                                   4th, last provisos in par.
                                                                   under heading ``United
                                                                   States Holocaust Memorial
                                                                   Council'')].
Oct. 21                                 99-506..................  902..........................     100  1841....................    36             155a
Oct. 30                                 99-591..................  101(g) [(1st-3d provisos in       100  3341-242, 3341-283......    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   par. under heading                                                         122a, 1404
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments                                                      note
                                                                   Commission'' in title II of
                                                                   H.R. 5313)], (h) [(1st, 2d,
                                                                   4th, last provisos in par.
                                                                   under heading ``United
                                                                   States Holocaust Memorial
                                                                   Council'')].
Nov. 6                                  99-604..................  .............................     100  3446....................    36      1101, 3901-
                                                                                                                                                    3915
                 1987
July 11                                 100-71..................  (par. related to Holocaust        101  418.....................    36             1405
                                                                   Memorial Council under
                                                                   heading ``United States
                                                                   Holocaust Memorial
                                                                   Council'').
Aug. 18                                 100-94..................  .............................     101  700.....................    36         146 note
Dec. 11                                 100-186.................  .............................     101  1286....................    36              188
Dec. 22                                 100-202.................  101(f ) [(1st-3d provisos in      101  1329-194, 1329-251......    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   1st par. under heading                                                     122a, 1404
                                                                   ``American Battle Monuments                                                      note
                                                                   Commission'')], (g) [(1st,
                                                                   2d, 4th, 5th provisos in
                                                                   par. under heading ``United
                                                                   States Holocaust Memorial
                                                                   Council'')].
                 1988
Apr. 6                                  100-281.................  .............................     102  73......................    36      1101, 4001-
                                                                                                                                                    4017
May 5                                   100-307.................  .............................     102  456.....................    36             169h
May 20                                  100-322.................  345..........................     102  540.....................    36       138c, 138c
                                                                                                                                                   notes
Aug. 17                                 100-402.................  .............................     102  1012....................    36       169f, 169f
                                                                                                                                                    note
Aug. 19                                 100-404.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          102  1021....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Oct. 28                                 100-539.................  .............................     102  2718....................    36       4601, 4601
                                                                                                                                             note, 4607,
                                                                                                                                                    4616
Nov. 7                                  100-630.................  301..........................     102  3315....................    36         155-155b
Nov. 9                                  100-642.................  .............................     102  3337....................    36       4404, 4404
                                                                                                                                                    note
Nov. 14                                 100-655.................  .............................     102  3849....................    36      1101, 4101-
                                                                                                                                                    4115
Nov. 18                                 100-687.................  1602.........................     102  4137....................    36             125b

[[Page 112 STAT. 1510]]

 
                 1989
May 17                                  101-30..................  1-7..........................     103  60......................    36       169j, 169j
                                                                                                                                           note, 169j-2,
                                                                                                                                          169j-3, 169j-3
                                                                                                                                           note, 169j-4-
                                                                                                                                          169j-8, 169j-8
                                                                                                                                                    note
Nov. 9                                  101-144.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          103  854.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                        122a,
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Dec. 18                                 101-237.................  503..........................     103  2094....................    36              121
                 1990
Aug. 10                                 101-355.................  .............................     104  416.....................    36              189
Oct. 30                                 101-478.................  .............................     104  1157....................    36               45
Nov. 5                                  101-507.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          104  1370....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
                                        101-510.................  1601-1616....................     104  1736....................    36      1101, 4801-
                                                                                                                                                    4815
                 1991
June 6                                  102-52..................  9(b).........................     105  263.....................    36             155a
June 13                                 102-54..................  13(n)........................     105  278.....................    36   67b, 67h, 90c,
                                                                                                                                               823, 865,
                                                                                                                                             1159, 2403,
                                                                                                                                              3103, 3703
Oct. 28                                 102-139.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          105  760.....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Dec. 2                                  102-179.................  .............................     105  1229....................    36               45
Dec. 5                                  102-190.................  1084.........................     105  1482....................    36         189 note
Dec. 10                                 102-199.................  .............................     105  1628....................    36   691, 693, 1101
                 1992
Oct. 5                                  102-381.................  (par. under heading ``United      106  1415....................    36        1405 note
                                                                   States Holocaust Memorial
                                                                   Council'').
Oct. 6                                  102-389.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          106  1595....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Oct. 23                                 102-450.................  .............................     106  2251....................    36       169k, 169k
                                                                                                                                                    note
                                        102-484.................  1801-1817, 1821-1838.........     106  2581....................    36      1101, 5001-
                                                                                                                                             5016, 5101-
                                                                                                                                                    5117
Oct. 26                                 102-522.................  201-208......................     106  3417....................    36       5201, 5201
                                                                                                                                             note, 5203-
                                                                                                                                                    5207
Oct. 27                                 102-529.................  .............................     106  3463....................    36      1401, 1406,
                                                                                                                                              1408, 1411
Oct. 29                                 102-569.................  914..........................     106  4488....................    36             155a
                 1993
May 31                                  103-35..................  202(a)(13)...................     107  101.....................    36       5013, 5113
Oct. 28                                 103-124.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          107  1291....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Nov. 11                                 103-138.................  309..........................     107  1416....................    36             1405
Nov. 30                                 103-160.................  1182(c)(6)...................     107  1772....................    36             5108
Dec. 20                                 103-206.................  318..........................     107  2427....................    36    161, 161 note
                 1994
Aug. 23                                 103-304.................  2............................     108  1565....................    36    169j-2, 169j-
                                                                                                                                              3, 169j-5,
                                                                                                                                            169j-5 note,
                                                                                                                                          169j-6-169j-10
                                        103-308.................  .............................     108  1669....................    36       169l, 169l
                                                                                                                                                    note
Sept. 13                                103-322.................  320922.......................     108  2131....................    36         167, 175

[[Page 112 STAT. 1511]]

 
Sept. 28                                103-327.................  (1st-3d provisos in par.          108  2317....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   under heading ``American                                                         122a
                                                                   Battle Monuments
                                                                   Commission'').
Oct. 14                                 103-362.................  .............................     108  3465....................    36     142c, 142c-1
                 1995
Mar. 7                                  104-3...................  .............................     109  47......................    36              115
July 27                                 104-19..................  2005.........................     109  247.....................    36             169m
                 1996
Feb. 10                                 104-106.................  1601-1611(c)(4), 1611(d)-         110  515, 516, 522...........    36   5501(a)-(c)(4)
                                                                   1621, 1623.                                                               , (d), 5501
                                                                                                                                             note, 5502-
                                                                                                                                              5521, 5523
Apr. 4                                  104-127.................  358(a)(2)....................     110  1014....................    36             1101
Apr. 26                                 104-134.................  (provisos in par. under           110  1321-293................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Sept. 23                                104-201.................  1073(c), 1801-1816...........     110  2657, 2760..............    36      1101, 5505,
                                                                                                                                             5506, 5509,
                                                                                                                                               5601-5615
Sept. 26                                104-204.................  (provisos in par. under           110  2907....................    36       121b, 122,
                                                                   heading ``American Battle                                                        122a
                                                                   Monuments Commission'').
Oct. 9                                  104-275.................  602..........................     110  3344....................    36        125, 138d
Oct. 11                                 104-285.................  201-209......................     110  3382....................    36       5701, 5701
                                                                                                                                             note, 5702-
                                                                                                                                                    5708
Nov. 12                                 104-333.................  806..........................     110  4188....................    36     169i, 169i-1
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



                  Schedule of Laws Repealed--Continued
                           United States Code
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Title                               Section
------------------------------------------------------------------------
10........................................  4312, 4313
10........................................  items 4312, 4313 in analysis
                                             of ch. 401
------------------------------------------------------------------------

SEC. 7. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Section 9503(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 
U.S.C. 9503(e)(3)) is amended by adding a period at the end of the 
paragraph.
    (b) Title 49, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 5108(f ), strike ``section 552(f )'' and 
        substitute ``section 552(b)''.
            (2) In section 15904(c)(1), insert ``section'' before 
        ``15901(b)''.

    (c)(1) Chapter 491 of title 49, United States Code, as enacted by 
the Act of November 20, 1997 (Public Law 105-102, 111 Stat. 2205), is 
amended as follows:
            (A) In section 49106(b)(1)(F), strike ``1996'' and 
        substitute ``1986''.
            (B) In section 49106(c)(3), strike ``by the board'' and 
        substitute ``to the board''.
            (C) In section 49107(b), strike ``subchapter II'' and 
        substitute ``subchapter III''.
            (D) In section 49111(b), strike ``retention of'' and 
        substitute ``retention by''.

    (2) The <<NOTE: 49 USC note prec. 101.>> Schedule of Laws Repealed 
in the Act of November 20, 1997 (Public Law 105-102, 111 Stat. 2217), is 
amended by

[[Page 112 STAT. 1512]]

striking ``1996'' in the items related to Public Laws 99-500 and 99-591 
and substituting ``1986''.

    (3) <<NOTE: Effective date. 49 USC 49106 note.>> The amendments made 
by this subsection are effective as of November 20, 1997.

    (d) <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective October 11, 1996, section 
5(45)(A) of the Act of October 11, 1996 (Public Law 104-287, 110 Stat. 
3393), is amended by striking ``ENFORCEMENT;'' and substituting 
``ENFORCEMENT:''.

    Approved August 12, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1085:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-326 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Feb. 3, considered and passed House.
            July 30, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>