[105th Congress Public Law 313]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ313.105]


[[Page 2963]]

                      MICCOSUKEE RESERVED AREA ACT

[[Page 112 STAT. 2964]]

Public Law 105-313
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To deem the activities of the Miccosukee Tribe on the Miccosukee 
   Reserved Area to be consistent with the purposes of the Everglades 
 National Park, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 30, 1998 -  [H.R. 
                                3055]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United <<NOTE: Miccosukee Reserved Area Act. Native 
Americans. Florida. 16 USC 410 note.>>  States of America in Congress 
assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Miccosukee Reserved Area Act''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Since 1964, the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida 
        have lived and governed their own affairs on a strip of land on 
        the northern edge of the Everglades National Park pursuant to 
        permits from the National Park Service and other legal 
        authority. The current permit expires in 2014.
            (2) Since the commencement of the Tribe's permitted use and 
        occupancy of the Special Use Permit Area, the Tribe's membership 
        has grown, as have the needs and desires of the Tribe and its 
        members for modern housing, governmental and administrative 
        facilities, schools and cultural amenities, and related 
        structures.
            (3) The United States, the State of Florida, the Miccosukee 
        Tribe, and the Seminole Tribe of Florida are participating in a 
        major intergovernmental effort to restore the South Florida 
        ecosystem, including the restoration of the environment of the 
        Park.
            (4) The Special Use Permit Area is located within the 
        northern boundary of the Park, which is critical to the 
        protection and restoration of the Everglades, as well as to the 
        cultural values of the Miccosukee Tribe.
            (5) The interests of both the Miccosukee Tribe and the 
        United States would be enhanced by a further delineation of the 
        rights and obligations of each with respect to the Special Use 
        Permit Area and to the Park as a whole.
            (6) The amount and location of land allocated to the Tribe 
        fulfills the purposes of the Park.
            (7) The use of the Miccosukee Reserved Area by the 
        Miccosukee Tribe does not constitute an abandonment of the Park.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are as follows:

[[Page 112 STAT. 2965]]

            (1) To replace the special use permit with a legal framework 
        under which the Tribe can live permanently and govern the 
        Tribe's own affairs in a modern community within the Park.
            (2) To protect the Park outside the boundaries of the 
        Miccosukee Reserved Area from adverse effects of structures or 
        activities within that area, and to support restoration of the 
        South Florida ecosystem, including restoring the environment of 
        the Park.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Everglades.--The term ``Everglades'' means the areas 
        within the Florida Water Conservation Areas, Everglades National 
        Park, and Big Cypress National Preserve.
            (3) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' means an 
        agency, as that term is defined in section 551(1) of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (4) Miccosukee reserved area; mra.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Miccosukee Reserved 
                Area'' or ``MRA'' means, notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law and subject to the limitations 
                specified in section 6(d) of this Act, the portion of 
                the Everglades National Park described in subparagraph 
                (B) that is depicted on the map entitled ``Miccosukee 
                Reserved Area'' numbered NPS-160/41,038, and dated 
                September 30, 1998, copies of which shall be kept 
                available for public inspection in the offices of the 
                National Park Service, Department of the Interior, and 
                shall be filed with appropriate officers of Miami-Dade 
                County and the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida.
                    (B) Description.--The description of the lands 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) is as follows: 
                ``Beginning at the western boundary of Everglades 
                National Park at the west line of sec. 20, T. 54 S., R. 
                35 E., thence E. following the Northern boundary of said 
                Park in T. 54 S., Rs. 35 and 36 E., to a point in sec. 
                19, T. 54 S., R. 36 E., 500 feet west of the existing 
                road known as Seven Mile Road, thence 500 feet south 
                from said point, thence west paralleling the Park 
                boundary for 3,200 feet, thence south for 600 feet, 
                thence west, paralleling the Park boundary to the west 
                line of sec. 20, T. 54 S., R. 35 E., thence N. 1,100 
                feet to the point of beginning.''.
            (5) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Everglades National 
        Park, including any additions to that Park.
            (6) Permit.--The term ``permit'', unless otherwise 
        specified, means any federally issued permit, license, 
        certificate of public convenience and necessity, or other 
        permission of any kind.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior or the designee of the Secretary.
            (8) South florida ecosystem.--The term ``South Florida 
        ecosystem'' has the meaning given that term in section 528(a)(4) 
        of the Water Resources Development Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
        303).

[[Page 112 STAT. 2966]]

            (9) Special use permit area.--The term ``special use permit 
        area'' means the area of 333.3 acres on the northern boundary of 
        the Park reserved for the use, occupancy, and governance of the 
        Tribe under a special use permit before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (10) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'', unless otherwise specified, 
        means the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida, a tribe of 
        American Indians recognized by the United States and organized 
        under section 16 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 
        U.S.C. 476), and recognized by the State of Florida pursuant to 
        chapter 285, Florida Statutes.
            (11) Tribal.--The term ``tribal'' means of or pertaining to 
        the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of Florida.
            (12) Tribal chairman.--The term ``tribal chairman'' means 
        the duly elected chairman of the Miccosukee Tribe of Indians of 
        Florida, or the designee of that chairman.

SEC. 5. TRIBAL <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  RIGHTS AND AUTHORITY ON THE 
            MICCOSUKEE RESERVED AREA.

    (a) Special Use Permit Terminated.--
            (1) Termination.--The special use permit dated February 1, 
        1973, issued by the Secretary to the Tribe, and any amendments 
        to that permit, are terminated.
            (2) Expansion of special use permit area.--The geographical 
        area contained in the former special use permit area referred to 
        in paragraph (1) shall be expanded pursuant to this Act and 
        known as the Miccosukee Reserved Area.
            (3) Governance of affairs in miccosukee reserved area.--
        Subject to the provisions of this Act and other applicable 
        Federal law, the Tribe shall govern its own affairs and 
        otherwise make laws and apply those laws in the MRA as though 
        the MRA were a Federal Indian reservation.

    (b) Perpetual Use and Occupancy.--The Tribe shall have the exclusive 
right to use and develop the MRA in perpetuity in a manner consistent 
with this Act for purposes of the administration, education, housing, 
and cultural activities of the Tribe, including commercial services 
necessary to support those purposes.
    (c) Indian Country Status.--The MRA shall be--
            (1) considered to be Indian country (as that term is defined 
        in section 1151 of title 18, United States Code); and
            (2) treated as a federally recognized Indian reservation 
        solely for purposes of--
                    (A) determining the authority of the Tribe to govern 
                its own affairs and otherwise make laws and apply those 
                laws within the MRA; and
                    (B) the eligibility of the Tribe and its members for 
                any Federal health, education, employment, economic 
                assistance, revenue sharing, or social welfare programs, 
                or any other similar Federal program for which Indians 
                are eligible because of their--
                          (i) status as Indians; and
                          (ii) residence on or near an Indian 
                      reservation.

    (d) Exclusive Federal Jurisdiction Preserved.--The exclusive Federal 
legislative jurisdiction as applied to the MRA as in effect on the date 
of the enactment of this Act shall be preserved. The Act of August 15, 
1953, 67 Stat. 588, chapter 505 and the amendments made by that Act, 
including section 1162 of title

[[Page 112 STAT. 2967]]

18, United States Code, as added by that Act and section 1360 of title 
28, United States Code, as added by that Act, shall not apply with 
respect to the MRA.
    (e) Other Rights Preserved.--Nothing in this Act shall affect any 
rights of the Tribe under Federal law, including the right to use other 
lands or waters within the Park for other purposes, including, fishing, 
boating, hiking, camping, cultural activities, or religious observances.

SEC. 6. PROTECTION <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  OF EVERGLADES NATIONAL 
            PARK.

    (a) Environmental Protection and Access Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The MRA shall remain within the boundaries 
        of the Park and be a part of the Park in a manner consistent 
        with this Act.
            (2) Compliance with applicable laws.--The Tribe shall be 
        responsible for compliance with all applicable laws, except as 
        otherwise provided by this Act.
            (3) Prevention of degradation; abatement.--
                    (A) Prevention of degradation.--Pursuant to the 
                requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act 
                (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), the Tribe shall prevent and 
                abate degradation of the quality of surface or 
                groundwater that is released into other parts of the 
                Park, as follows:
                          (i) With respect to water entering the MRA 
                      which fails to meet applicable water quality 
                      standards approved by the Administrator under the 
                      Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
                      1251 et seq.), actions of the Tribe shall not 
                      further degrade water quality.
                          (ii) With respect to water entering the MRA 
                      which meets applicable water quality standards 
                      approved by the Administrator under the Federal 
                      Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et 
                      seq.), the Tribe shall not cause the water to fail 
                      to comply with applicable water quality standards.
                    (B) Prevention and abatement.--The Tribe shall 
                prevent and abate disruption of the restoration or 
                preservation of the quantity, timing, or distribution of 
                surface or groundwater that would enter the MRA and 
                flow, directly or indirectly, into other parts of the 
                Park, but only to the extent that such disruption is 
                caused by conditions, activities, or structures within 
                the MRA.
                    (C) Prevention of significant propagation of exotic 
                plants and animals.--The Tribe shall prevent significant 
                propagation of exotic plants or animals outside the MRA 
                that may otherwise be caused by conditions, activities, 
                or structures within the MRA.
                    (D) Public access to certain areas of the park.--The 
                Tribe shall not impede public access to those areas of 
                the Park outside the boundaries of the MRA, and to and 
                from the Big Cypress National Preserve, except that the 
                Tribe shall not be required to allow individuals who are 
                not members of the Tribe access to the MRA other than 
                Federal employees, agents, officers, and officials (as 
                provided in this Act).
                    (E) Prevention of significant cumulative adverse 
                environmental impacts.--

[[Page 112 STAT. 2968]]

                          (i) In general.--The Tribe shall prevent and 
                      abate any significant cumulative adverse 
                      environmental impact on the Park outside the MRA 
                      resulting from development or other activities 
                      within the MRA.
                          (ii) Procedures.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  
                      later than 12 months after the date of the 
                      enactment of this Act, the Tribe shall develop, 
                      publish, and implement procedures that shall 
                      ensure adequate public notice and opportunity to 
                      comment on major tribal actions within the MRA 
                      that may contribute to a significant cumulative 
                      adverse impact on the Everglades ecosystem.
                          (iii) Written notice.--The procedures in 
                      clause (ii) shall include timely written notice to 
                      the Secretary and consideration of the Secretary's 
                      comments.
                    (F) Water quality standards.--
                          (i) In general.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  
                      later than 12 months after the date of the 
                      enactment of this Act, the Tribe shall adopt and 
                      comply with water quality standards within the MRA 
                      that are at least as protective as the water 
                      quality standards for the area encompassed by 
                      Everglades National Park approved by the 
                      Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution 
                      Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
                          (ii) Tribal water quality standards.--The 
                      Tribe may not adopt water quality standards for 
                      the MRA under clause (i) that are more restrictive 
                      than the water quality standards adopted by the 
                      Tribe for contiguous reservation lands that are 
                      not within the Park.
                          (iii) Effect of failure to adopt or prescribe 
                      standards.--In the event the Tribe fails to adopt 
                      water quality standards referred to in clause (i), 
                      the water quality standards applicable to the 
                      Everglades National Park, approved by the 
                      Administrator under the Federal Water Pollution 
                      Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), shall be 
                      deemed to apply by operation of Federal law to the 
                      MRA until such time as the Tribe adopts water 
                      quality standards that meet the requirements of 
                      this subparagraph.
                          (iv) Modification of standards.--If, after the 
                      date of the enactment of this Act, the standards 
                      referred to in clause (iii) are revised, not later 
                      than 1 year after those standards are revised, the 
                      Tribe shall make such revisions to water quality 
                      standards of the Tribe as are necessary to ensure 
                      that those water quality standards are at least as 
                      protective as the revised water quality standards 
                      approved by the Administrator.
                          (v) Effect of failure to modify water quality 
                      standards.--If the Tribe fails to revise water 
                      quality standards in accordance with clause (iv), 
                      the revised water quality standards applicable to 
                      the Everglades Park, approved by the Administrator 
                      under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
                      U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) shall be deemed to apply by 
                      operation of Federal law to the MRA until such 
                      time as the Tribe adopts water quality standards 
                      that are at least as protective as

[[Page 112 STAT. 2969]]

                      the revised water quality standards approved by 
                      the Administrator.
                    (G) Natural easements.--The Tribe shall not engage 
                in any construction, development, or improvement in any 
                area that is designated as a natural easement.

    (b) Height Restrictions.--
            (1) Restrictions.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) 
        through (4), no structure constructed within the MRA shall 
        exceed the height of 45 feet or exceed 2 stories, except that a 
        structure within the Miccosukee Government Center, as shown on 
        the map referred to in section 4(4), shall not exceed the height 
        of 70 feet.
            (2) Exceptions.--The following types of structures are 
        exempt from the restrictions of this section to the extent 
        necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the tribal 
        members, and for the utility of the structures:
                    (A) Water towers or standpipes.
                    (B) Radio towers.
                    (C) Utility lines.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the restrictions of 
        this subsection if the Secretary finds that the needs of the 
        Tribe for the structure that is taller than structures allowed 
        under the restrictions would outweigh the adverse effects to the 
        Park or its visitors.
            (4) Grandfather clause.--Any structure approved by the 
        Secretary before the date of the enactment of this Act, and for 
        which construction commences not later than 12 months after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, shall not be subject to the 
        provisions of this subsection.
            (5) Measurement.--The heights specified in this subsection 
        shall be measured from mean sea level.

    (c) Other Conditions.--
            (1) Gaming.--No class II or class III gaming (as those terms 
        are defined in section 4 (7) and (8) of the Indian Gaming 
        Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703 (7) and (8)) shall be conducted 
        within the MRA.
            (2) Aviation.--
                    (A) In general.--No commercial aviation may be 
                conducted from or to the MRA.
                    (B) Emergency operators.--Takeoffs and landings of 
                aircraft shall be allowed for emergency operations and 
                administrative use by the Tribe or the United States, 
                including resource management and law enforcement.
                    (C) State agencies and officials.--The Tribe may 
                permit the State of Florida, as agencies or 
                municipalities of the State of Florida to provide for 
                takeoffs or landings of aircraft on the MRA for 
                emergency operations or administrative purposes.
            (3) Visual quality.--
                    (A) In general.--In the planning, use, and 
                development of the MRA by the Tribe, the Tribe shall 
                consider the quality of the visual experience from the 
                Shark River Valley visitor use area, including 
                limitations on the height and locations of billboards or 
                other commercial signs or other advertisements visible 
                from the Shark Valley visitor center, tram road, or 
                observation tower.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2970]]

                    (B) Exemption of markings.--The Tribe may exempt 
                markings on a water tower or standpipe that merely 
                identify the Tribe.

    (d) Easements and Ranger Station.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this Act, the following provisions shall apply:
            (1) Natural easements.--
                    (A) In general.--The use and occupancy of the MRA by 
                the Tribe shall be perpetually subject to natural 
                easements on parcels of land that are--
                          (i) bounded on the north and south by the 
                      boundaries of the MRA, specified in the legal 
                      description under section 4(4); and
                          (ii) bounded on the east and west by 
                      boundaries that run perpendicular to the northern 
                      and southern boundaries of the MRA, as provided in 
                      the description under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Description.--The description referred to in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) is as follows:
                          (i) Easement number 1, being 445 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 525 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 970 feet, east of the western boundary of 
                      the MRA.
                          (ii) Easement number 2, being 443 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 3,637 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 4,080 feet, east of the western boundary 
                      of the MRA.
                          (iii) Easement number 3, being 320 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 5,380 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 5,700 feet, east of the western boundary 
                      of the MRA.
                          (iv) Easement number 4, being 290 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 6,020 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 6,310 feet, east of the western boundary 
                      of the MRA.
                          (v) Easement number 5, being 290 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 8,170 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 8,460 feet, east of the western boundary 
                      of the MRA.
                          (vi) Easement number 6, being 312 feet wide 
                      with western boundary 8,920 feet, and eastern 
                      boundary 9,232 feet, east of the western boundary 
                      of the MRA.
            (2) Extent of easements.--The aggregate extent of the east-
        west parcels of lands subject to easements under paragraph (1) 
        shall not exceed 2,100 linear feet, as depicted on the map 
        referred to in section 4(4).
            (3) Use of easements.--At the discretion of the Secretary, 
        the Secretary may use the natural easements specified in 
        paragraph (1) to fulfill a hydrological or other environmental 
        objective of the Everglades National Park.
            (4) Additional requirements.--In addition to providing for 
        the easements specified in paragraph (1), the Tribe shall not 
        impair or impede the continued function of the water control 
        structures designated as ``S-12A'' and ``S-12B'', located north 
        of the MRA on the Tamiami Trail and any existing water flow ways 
        under the Old Tamiami Trail.
            (5) Use by department of the interior.--The Department of 
        the Interior shall have a right, in perpetuity, to use and 
        occupy, and to have vehicular and airboat access to, the Tamiami 
        Ranger Station identified on the map referred to in section 
        4(4), except that the pad on which such station is constructed 
        shall not be increased in size without the consent of the Tribe.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2971]]

SEC. 7. IMPLEMENTATION <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  PROCESS.

    (a) Government-to-Government Agreements.--The Secretary and the 
tribal chairman shall make reasonable, good faith efforts to implement 
the requirements of this Act. Those efforts may include government-to-
government consultations, and the development of standards of 
performance and monitoring protocols.
    (b) Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.--If the Secretary 
and the tribal chairman concur that they cannot reach agreement on any 
significant issue relating to the implementation of the requirements of 
this Act, the Secretary and the tribal chairman may jointly request that 
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service assist them in reaching a 
satisfactory agreement.
    (c) 60-Day Time Limit.--The Federal Mediation and Conciliation 
Service may conduct mediation or other nonbinding dispute resolution 
activities for a period not to exceed 60 days beginning on the date on 
which the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service receives the 
request for assistance, unless the Secretary and the tribal chairman 
agree to an extension of period of time.
    (d) Other Rights Preserved.--The facilitated dispute resolution 
specified in this section shall not prejudice any right of the parties 
to--
            (1) commence an action in a court of the United States at 
        any time; or
            (2) any other resolution process that is not prohibited by 
        law.

SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410 note.>>  MISCELLANEOUS.

    (a) No General Applicability.--Nothing in this Act creates any 
right, interest, privilege, or immunity affecting any other Tribe or any 
other park or Federal lands.
    (b) Noninterference With Federal Agents.--
            (1) In general.--Federal employees, agents, officers, and 
        officials shall have a right of access to the MRA--
                    (A) to monitor compliance with the provisions of 
                this Act; and
                    (B) for other purposes, as though it were a Federal 
                Indian reservation.
            (2) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this Act shall 
        authorize the Tribe or members or agents of the Tribe to 
        interfere with any Federal employee, agent, officer, or official 
        in the performance of official duties (whether within or outside 
        the boundaries of the MRA) except that nothing in this paragraph 
        may prejudice any right under the Constitution of the United 
        States.

    (c) Federal Permits.--
            (1) In general.--No Federal permit shall be issued to the 
        Tribe for any activity or structure that would be inconsistent 
        with this Act.
            (2) Consultations.--Any Federal agency considering an 
        application for a permit for construction or activities on the 
        MRA shall consult with, and consider the advice, evidence, and 
        recommendations of the Secretary before issuing a final 
        decision.
            (3) Rule of construction.--Except as otherwise specifically 
        provided in this Act, nothing in this Act supersedes any 
        requirement of any other applicable Federal law.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2972]]

    (d) Volunteer Programs and Tribal Involvement.--The Secretary may 
establish programs that foster greater involvement by the Tribe with 
respect to the Park. Those efforts may include internships and volunteer 
programs with tribal schoolchildren and with adult tribal members.
    (e) Saving Ecosystem Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
        amend or prejudice the authority of the United States to design, 
        construct, fund, operate, permit, remove, or degrade canals, 
        levees, pumps, impoundments, wetlands, flow ways, or other 
        facilities, structures, or systems, for the restoration or 
        protection of the South Florida ecosystem pursuant to Federal 
        laws.
            (2) Use of noneasement lands.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may use all or any 
                part of the MRA lands to the extent necessary to restore 
                or preserve the quality, quantity, timing, or 
                distribution of surface or groundwater, if other 
                reasonable alternative measures to achieve the same 
                purpose are impractical.
                    (B) Secretarial authority.--The Secretary may use 
                lands referred to in subparagraph (A) either under an 
                agreement with the tribal chairman or upon an order of 
                the United States district court for the district in 
                which the MRA is located, upon petition by the Secretary 
                and finding by the court that--
                          (i) the proposed actions of the Secretary are 
                      necessary; and
                          (ii) other reasonable alternative measures are 
                      impractical.
            (3) Costs.--
                    (A) In general.--In the event the Secretary 
                exercises the authority granted the Secretary under 
                paragraph (2), the United States shall be liable to the 
                Tribe or the members of the Tribe for--
                          (i) cost of modification, removal, relocation, 
                      or reconstruction of structures lawfully erected 
                      in good faith on the MRA; and
                          (ii) loss of use of the affected land within 
                      the MRA.
                    (B) Payment of compensation.--Any compensation paid 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be paid as cash payments 
                with respect to taking structures and other fixtures and 
                in the form of rights to occupy similar land adjacent to 
                the MRA with respect to taking land.
            (4) Rule of construction.--Paragraphs (2) and (3) shall not 
        apply to a natural easement described in section 6(d)(1).

    (f ) Parties Held Harmless.--
            (1) United states held harmless.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B) with 
                respect to any tribal member, tribal employee, tribal 
                contractor, tribal enterprise, or any person residing 
                within the MRA, notwithstanding any other provision of 
                law, the United States (including an officer, agent, or 
                employee of the United States), shall not be liable for 
                any action or failure to act by the Tribe (including an 
                officer, employee, or member of the Tribe), including 
                any failure to perform any of the obligations of the 
                Tribe under this Act.

[[Page 112 STAT. 2973]]

                    (B) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this paragraph 
                shall be construed to alter any liability or other 
                obligation that the United States may have under the 
                Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
                (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.).
            (2) Tribe held harmless.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Tribe and the members of the Tribe shall 
        not be liable for any injury, loss, damage, or harm that--
                    (A) occurs with respect to the MRA; and
                    (B) is caused by an action or failure to act by the 
                United States, or the officer, agent, or employee of the 
                United States (including the failure to perform any 
                obligation of the United States under this Act).

    (g) Cooperative Agreements.--Nothing in this Act shall alter the 
authority of the Secretary and the Tribe to enter into any cooperative 
agreement, including any agreement concerning law enforcement, emergency 
response, or resource management.
    (h) Water Rights.--Nothing in this Act shall enhance or diminish any 
water rights of the Tribe, or members of the Tribe, or the United States 
(with respect to the Park).
    (i) Enforcement.--
            (1) Actions brought by attorney general.--The Attorney 
        General may bring a civil action in the United States district 
        court for the district in which the MRA is located, to enjoin 
        the Tribe from violating any provision of this Act.
            (2) Action brought by tribe.--The Tribe may bring a civil 
        action in the United States district court for the district in 
        which the MRA is located to enjoin the United States from 
        violating any provision of this Act.

    Approved October 30, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3055 (S. 1419):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 105-708, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-361 accompanying S. 1419 (Comm. on Indian 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 12, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>