[105th Congress Public Law 45]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ45.105]


[[Page 1141]]

                          MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                        APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 1998

[[Page 111 STAT. 1142]]

Public Law 105-45
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  Making appropriations for military construction, family housing, and 
   base realignment and closure for the Department of Defense for the 
          fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, and for other 
           purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 1997 -  [H.R. 2016]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Military 
Construction Appropriations Act, 1998.>> That the following sums are 
appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1998, for 
military construction, family housing, and base realignment and closure 
functions administered by the Department of Defense, and for other 
purposes, namely:

                       Military Construction, Army

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services 
necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction 
and operation of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander 
in Chief, $714,377,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: 
Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed $65,577,000 shall be 
available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, 
and host nation support, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of 
Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such 
purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of 
Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.

                       Military Construction, Navy

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including 
personnel in the Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal 
services necessary for the purposes of this appropriation, $683,666,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, That of this 
amount, not to exceed $46,489,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1143]]

                    Military Construction, Air Force

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, 
and real property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, 
$701,855,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, 
That of this amount, not to exceed $44,880,000 shall be available for 
study, planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized 
by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional 
obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees 
on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and 
the reasons therefor.

                   Military Construction, Defense-wide

                      (including transfer of funds)

    For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of 
temporary or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real 
property for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other 
than the military departments), as currently authorized by law, 
$646,342,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002: Provided, 
That such amounts of this appropriation as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to such appropriations of the 
Department of Defense available for military construction or family 
housing as he may designate, to be merged with and to be available for 
the same purposes, and for the same time period, as the appropriation or 
fund to which transferred: Provided further, That of the amount 
appropriated, not to exceed $48,850,000 shall be available for study, 
planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, 
unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations 
are necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on 
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the 
reasons therefor.

               Military Construction, Army National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 
of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction Authorization 
Acts, $118,350,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                Military Construction, Air National Guard

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
National Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 
of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction Authorization 
Acts, $190,444,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                   Military Construction, Army Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Army 
Reserve as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United

[[Page 111 STAT. 1144]]

States Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $74,167,000, 
to remain available until September 30, 2002.

                  Military Construction, Naval Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the 
reserve components of the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 
133 of title 10, United States Code, and Military Construction 
Authorization Acts, $47,329,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002.

                Military Construction, Air Force Reserve

    For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and 
conversion of facilities for the training and administration of the Air 
Force Reserve as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States 
Code, and Military Construction Authorization Acts, $30,243,000, to 
remain available until September 30, 2002.

                   North Atlantic Treaty Organization

                       Security Investment Program

    For the United States share of the cost of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program for the acquisition and 
construction of military facilities and installations (including 
international military headquarters) and for related expenses for the 
collective defense of the North Atlantic Treaty Area as authorized in 
Military Construction Authorization Acts and section 2806 of title 10, 
United States Code, $152,600,000, to remain available until expended.

                          Family Housing, Army

    For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and 
alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, 
leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and 
insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, 
$197,300,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002; for 
Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $1,140,568,000; in all 
$1,337,868,000.

                  Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps

    For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, including 
debt payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and interest 
charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $393,832,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002; for Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $976,504,000; 
in all $1,370,336,000.

                        Family Housing, Air Force

    For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction, 
including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion,

[[Page 111 STAT. 1145]]

extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, including 
debt payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and interest 
charges, and insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $295,709,000, to remain available until September 30, 
2002; for Operation and Maintenance, and for debt payment, $830,234,000; 
in all $1,125,943,000.

                      Family Housing, Defense-wide

    For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for 
construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, 
extension and alteration, and for operation and maintenance, leasing, 
and minor construction, as authorized by law, as follows: for 
Construction, $4,950,000, to remain available until September 30, 2002; 
for Operation and Maintenance, $32,724,000; in all $37,674,000.

              Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part II

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 
established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $116,754,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $105,224,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

             Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part III

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 
established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $768,702,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $398,499,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

              Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV

    For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990 
established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense 
Authorization Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $1,175,398,000, to remain 
available until expended: Provided, That not more than $353,604,000 of 
the funds appropriated herein shall be available solely for 
environmental restoration, unless the Secretary of Defense determines 
that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies 
the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his 
determination and the reasons therefor.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1146]]

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

    Sec. 101. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-
fixed-fee contract for work, where cost estimates exceed $25,000, to be 
performed within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific 
approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth the 
reasons therefor: Provided, That the foregoing shall not apply in the 
case of contracts for environmental restoration at an installation that 
is being closed or realigned where payments are made from a Base 
Realignment and Closure Account.
    Sec. 102. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
    Sec. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction may be used for advances to the Federal Highway 
Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of 
access roads as authorized by section 210 of title 23, United States 
Code, when projects authorized therein are certified as important to the 
national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
    Sec. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to 
begin construction of new bases inside the continental United States for 
which specific appropriations have not been made.
    Sec. 105. No part of the funds provided in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used for purchase of land or land easements 
in excess of 100 per centum of the value as determined by the Army Corps 
of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except: (1) 
where there is a determination of value by a Federal court; or (2) 
purchases negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee; or (3) 
where the estimated value is less than $25,000; or (4) as otherwise 
determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
    Sec. 106. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts shall be used to: (1) acquire land; (2) provide for 
site preparation; or (3) install utilities for any family housing, 
except housing for which funds have been made available in annual 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts.
    Sec. 107. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for minor construction may be used to transfer or 
relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without 
prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used for the procurement of steel for any 
construction project or activity for which American steel producers, 
fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to 
compete for such steel procurement.
    Sec. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense 
for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal 
year may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
    Sec. 110. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be used to initiate a new installation overseas 
without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
    Sec. 111. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts may be obligated for architect and engineer

[[Page 111 STAT. 1147]]

contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects to 
be accomplished in Japan, in any NATO member country, or in countries 
bordering the Arabian Gulf, unless such contracts are awarded to United 
States firms or United States firms in joint venture with host nation 
firms.
    Sec. 112. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction 
Appropriations Acts for military construction in the United States 
territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll, or in 
countries bordering the Arabian Gulf, may be used to award any contract 
estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign 
contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be applicable to 
contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of a 
United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible 
bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 per centum: Provided 
further, That this section shall not apply to contract awards for 
military construction on Kwajalein Atoll for which the lowest responsive 
and responsible bid is submitted by a Marshallese contractor.
    Sec. 113. <<NOTE: Notification.>> The Secretary of Defense is to 
inform the appropriate committees of Congress, including the Committees 
on Appropriations, of the plans and scope of any proposed military 
exercise involving United States personnel thirty days prior to its 
occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either temporary or 
permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.

    Sec. 114. Not more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in 
Military Construction Appropriations Acts which are limited for 
obligation during the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the 
last two months of the fiscal year.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 115. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for 
construction in prior years shall be available for construction 
authorized for each such military department by the authorizations 
enacted into law during the current session of Congress.
    Sec. 116. For military construction or family housing projects that 
are being completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for 
obligation, expired or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of 
associated supervision, inspection, overhead, engineering and design on 
those projects and on subsequent claims, if any.
    Sec. 117. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, any funds appropriated to a military department or 
defense agency for the construction of military projects may be 
obligated for a military construction project or contract, or for any 
portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the end of the 
fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for such 
project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project: (1) 
are obligated from funds available for military construction projects 
and (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any 
amount by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 118. <<NOTE: 10 USC 2860 note.>> During the five-year period 
after appropriations available to the Department of Defense for military 
construction and family housing operation and maintenance and 
construction have

[[Page 111 STAT. 1148]]

expired for obligation, upon a determination that such appropriations 
will not be necessary for the liquidation of obligations or for making 
authorized adjustments to such appropriations for obligations incurred 
during the period of availability of such appropriations, unobligated 
balances of such appropriations may be transferred into the 
appropriation ``Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense'' 
to be merged with and to be available for the same time period and for 
the same purposes as the appropriation to which transferred.

    Sec. 119. <<NOTE: Reports.>> The Secretary of Defense is to provide 
the Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives with an annual report by February 15, containing details 
of the specific actions proposed to be taken by the Department of 
Defense during the current fiscal year to encourage other member nations 
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Japan, Korea, and United 
States allies bordering the Arabian Gulf to assume a greater share of 
the common defense burden of such nations and the United States.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 120. During the current fiscal year, in addition to any other 
transfer authority available to the Department of Defense, proceeds 
deposited to the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established 
by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base 
Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526) pursuant to section 
207(a)(2)(C) of such Act, may be transferred to the account established 
by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1991, to be merged with, and to be available for the same purposes and 
the same time period as that account.
    Sec. 121. No funds appropriated pursuant to this Act may be expended 
by an entity unless the entity agrees that in expending the assistance 
the entity will comply with sections 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 
1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10c, popularly known as the ``Buy American Act'').
    Sec. 122. (a) In the case of any equipment or products that may be 
authorized to be purchased with financial assistance provided under this 
Act, it is the sense of the Congress that entities receiving such 
assistance should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-
made equipment and products.
    (b) <<NOTE: Notice.>> In providing financial assistance under this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to each recipient of 
the assistance a notice describing the statement made in subsection (a) 
by the Congress.

                           (transfer of funds)

    Sec. 123. (a) Subject to thirty days prior notification to the 
Committees on Appropriations, such additional amounts as may be 
determined by the Secretary of Defense may be transferred to the 
Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement Fund from amounts 
appropriated for construction in ``Family Housing'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Fund shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct

[[Page 111 STAT. 1149]]

loans or loan guarantees issued by the Department of Defense pursuant to 
the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169, title 10, United States 
Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and improving 
military family housing and supporting facilities.
    (b) Subject to thirty days prior notification to the Committees on 
Appropriations, such additional amounts as may be determined by the 
Secretary of Defense may be transferred to the Department of Defense 
Military Unaccompanied Housing Improvement Fund from amounts 
appropriated for the acquisition or construction of military 
unaccompanied housing in ``Military Construction'' accounts, to be 
merged with and to be available for the same purposes and for the same 
period of time as amounts appropriated directly to the Fund: Provided, 
That appropriations made available to the Fund shall be available to 
cover the costs, as defined in section 502(5) of the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, of direct loans or loan guarantees issued by the 
Department of Defense pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of 
chapter 169, title 10, United States Code, pertaining to alternative 
means of acquiring and improving military unaccompanied housing and 
ancillary supporting facilities.
    Sec. 124. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, appropriations 
made available to the Department of Defense Family Housing Improvement 
Fund shall be the sole source of funds available for planning, 
administrative, and oversight costs incurred by the Housing 
Revitalization Support Office relating to military family housing 
initiatives and military unaccompanied housing initiatives undertaken 
pursuant to the provisions of subchapter IV of chapter 169, title 10, 
United States Code, pertaining to alternative means of acquiring and 
improving military family housing, military unaccompanied housing, and 
supporting facilities.
    Sec. 125. Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Act, the 
following accounts are hereby reduced by the specified amounts--
            ``Military Construction, Army'', $7,900,000;
            ``Military Construction, Navy'', $5,600,000;
            ``Military Construction, Air Force'', $7,600,000;
            ``Military Construction, Defense-wide'', $6,100,000;
            ``North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
        Program'', $1,000,000;
            ``Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part III'', 
        $8,000,000;
            ``Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part IV'', 
        $8,000,000;
            ``Family Housing, Army'', $36,700,000;
            ``Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps'', $13,100,000;
            ``Family Housing, Air Force'', $14,700,000; and
            ``Family Housing, Defense-wide'', $100,000.

    Sec. 126. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from the funds 
appropriated in this Act for Military Construction, Army, the Secretary 
of the Army is directed to complete, using an Unspecified Minor 
Construction project, the Special Forces (Diver) Training Facility at 
Key West Naval Air Station, Florida, as authorized in the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (Public 
Law 101-189).
    Sec. 127. <<NOTE: Hawaii.>> (a) Lease of Property Authorized.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Navy 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') may lease, without 
monetary

[[Page 111 STAT. 1150]]

consideration, to the city and county of Honolulu (hereinafter referred 
to as the ``city'') a parcel of land consisting of approximately 300 
acres on Waipio Peninsula, Honolulu, Hawaii (hereinafter referred to as 
the ``parcel'').

    (b) Related Easement.--The Secretary may also grant, without 
monetary consideration, an easement on, over, under and across that 
certain real property known as Waipio Point Access Road for access to 
and operation of the parcel.
    (c) Term.--The term of the lease and easement authorized under this 
section shall be fifty (50) years.
    (d) Condition of Use.--The lease and easement authorized under 
subsections (a) and (b) shall be subject to the following conditions:
            (1) The city shall use the parcel for development and 
        operation of a public soccer park and related recreational 
        facilities, and for other civic and public purposes as may be 
        approved by the Secretary.
            (2) Facilities developed on the parcel shall be for public 
        use and benefit; however, usage fees may be charged to defray 
        facility operating and maintenance costs.
            (3) The city shall comply with all explosive safety criteria 
        affecting the city's use of the lease and easement areas, as 
        established by the Secretary in connection with the explosive 
        safety areas supporting the ordinance handling wharves located 
        at West Loch Branch, Naval Magazine, Lualualei, Hawaii.
            (4) The city shall, at its own cost and to the satisfaction 
        of the Secretary, make any and all improvements to Waipio Point 
        Access Road which the city determines are necessary to provide 
        onstreet parking along said road, and adequate access to the 
        parcel, including, but not limited to, any necessary appurtenant 
        utility and drainage improvements. During the term of said 
        easement, the cost of maintenance, repair and replacement of 
        said road and improvements shall be borne by the city.
            (5) The city shall install a non-potable irrigation water 
        delivery system to service the parcel, and in doing so, the city 
        shall size transmission lines capable of delivering 
        approximately 2.5 million additional gallons of irrigation water 
        per day to agricultural lands on Waipio Peninsula under the 
        control of the Secretary.

    (e) Termination.--If the Secretary determines at any time that the 
parcel is not being used for a purpose specified in subsection (d)(1), 
the lease and easement authorized under subsections (a) and (b) may be 
terminated, and all right, title, and interest in and to such real 
property, including any improvements thereon, shall revert to the United 
States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry 
thereon.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1151]]

    (f) Effect of Expiration of Lease.--Unless otherwise specifically 
provided for in this section, at the end of the lease and easement term, 
the city shall either convey, without reimbursement, to the United 
States, all right, title, and interest of the city in and to the 
improvements subject to said lease and easement, or restore, to the 
extent practicable, the lease and easement areas to the satisfaction of 
the Secretary.
    (g) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property subject to this section shall be determined 
by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of such survey shall 
be borne by the city.
    (h) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the lease and 
easement to be granted under this section as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
    Sec. 128. <<NOTE: Notice.>> (a) Not later than 60 days before 
issuing any solicitation for a contract with the private sector for 
military family housing or military unaccompanied housing, the Secretary 
of the military department concerned shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the notice described in subsection (b).

    (b)(1) A notice referred to in subsection (a) is a notice of any 
guarantee (including the making of mortgage or rental payments) proposed 
to be made by the Secretary to the private party under the contract 
involved in the event of--
            (A) the closure or realignment of the installation for which 
        housing is provided under the contract;
            (B) a reduction in force of units stationed at such 
        installation; or
            (C) the extended deployment overseas of units stationed at 
        such installation.

    (2) Each notice under this subsection shall specify the nature of 
the guarantee involved and assess the extent and likelihood, if any, of 
the liability of the Federal Government with respect to the guarantee.
    (c) In this section, the term ``congressional defense committees'' 
means the following:
            (1) The Committee on Armed Services and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate.

[[Page 111 STAT. 1152]]

            (2) The Committee on National Security and the Military 
        Construction Subcommittee, Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Military Construction Appropriations 
Act, 1998''.

    Approved September 30, 1997.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2016:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: Nos. 105-150 (Comm. on Appropriations) and 105-247 (Comm. 
of Conference).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-52 (Comm. on Appropriations).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 143 (1997):
            July 8, considered and passed House.
            July 22, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 16, House agreed to conference report.
            Sept. 17, Senate agreed to conference report.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 33 (1997):
            Sept. 30, Presidential statement.
            Oct. 6, President's special message on line item veto.
FEDERAL REGISTER, Vol. 62 (1997):
            Oct. 7, Cancellation of items pursuant to the Line Item Veto 
                Act.

                                  <all>