[105th Congress Public Law 378]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ378.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3395]]

Public Law 105-378
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 1998 -  [S. 1408]>> Lower East Side 
        Tenement National Historic Site, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

 TITLE <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note [table].>>  I--LOWER EAST SIDE TENEMENT 
NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE, NEW YORK.

SEC. 101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1)(A) immigration, and the resulting diversity of cultural 
        influences, is a key factor in defining the identity of the 
        United States; and
            (B) many United States citizens trace their ancestry to 
        persons born in nations other than the United States;
            (2) the latter part of the 19th century and the early part 
        of the 20th century marked a period in which the volume of 
        immigrants coming to the United States far exceeded that of any 
        time prior to or since that period;
            (3) no single identifiable neighborhood in the United States 
        absorbed a comparable number of immigrants than the Lower East 
        Side neighborhood of Manhattan in New York City;
            (4) the Lower East Side Tenement at 97 Orchard Street in New 
        York City is an outstanding survivor of the vast number of 
        humble buildings that housed immigrants to New York City during 
        the greatest wave of immigration in American history;
            (5) the Lower East Side Tenement is owned and operated as a 
        museum by the Lower East Side Tenement Museum;
            (6) the Lower East Side Tenement Museum is dedicated to 
        interpreting immigrant life within a neighborhood long 
        associated with the immigrant experience in the United States, 
        New York City's Lower East Side, and its importance to United 
        States history; and
            (7)(A) the Director of the National Park Service found the 
        Lower East Side Tenement at 97 Orchard Street to be nationally 
        significant; and
            (B) the Secretary of the Interior declared the Lower East 
        Side Tenement a National Historic Landmark on April 19, 1994; 
        and
            (C) the Director of the National Park Service, through a 
        special resource study, found the Lower East Side Tenement 
        suitable and feasible for inclusion in the National Park System.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3396]]

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to ensure the preservation, maintenance, and 
        interpretation of this site and to interpret at the site the 
        themes of immigration, tenement life in the latter half of the 
        19th century and the first half of the 20th century, the housing 
        reform movement, and tenement architecture in the United States;
            (2) to ensure continued interpretation of the nationally 
        significant immigrant phenomenon associated with New York City's 
        Lower East Side and the Lower East Side's role in the history of 
        immigration to the United States; and
            (3) to enhance the interpretation of the Castle Clinton, 
        Ellis Island, and Statue of Liberty National Monuments.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``historic site'' means the 
        Lower East Side Tenement found at 97 Orchard Street on Manhattan 
        Island in the City of New York, State of New York, and 
        designated as a national historic site by section 103.
            (2) Museum.--The term ``Museum'' means the Lower East Side 
        Tenement Museum, a nonprofit organization established in the 
        City of New York, State of New York, which owns and operates the 
        tenement building at 97 Orchard Street and manages other 
        properties in the vicinity of 97 Orchard Street as 
        administrative and program support facilities for 97 Orchard 
        Street.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) In General.--To further the purposes of this title and the Act 
entitled ``An Act to provide for the preservation of historic American 
sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national significance, and 
for other purposes'', approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.), 
the Lower East Side Tenement at 97 Orchard Street, in the City of New 
York, State of New York, is designated a national historic site.
    (b) Coordination With National Park System.--
            (1) Affiliated site.--The historic site shall be an 
        affiliated site of the National Park System.
            (2) Coordination.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Museum, shall coordinate the operation and interpretation of the 
        historic site with the Statue of Liberty National Monument, 
        Ellis Island National Monument, and Castle Clinton National 
        Monument. The historic site's story and interpretation of the 
        immigrant experience in the United States is directly related to 
        the themes and purposes of these National Monuments.

    (c) Ownership.--The historic site shall continue to be owned, 
operated, and managed by the Museum.

SEC. 104. MANAGEMENT OF THE HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Cooperative Agreement.--The Secretary may enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the Museum to ensure the marking, 
interpretation, and preservation of the national historic site 
designated by section 103(a).

[[Page 112 STAT. 3397]]

    (b) Technical and Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
technical and financial assistance to the Museum to mark, interpret, and 
preserve the historic site, including making preservation-related 
capital improvements and repairs.
    (c) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Museum, shall develop a general management plan for the historic 
        site that defines the role and responsibility of the Secretary 
        with regard to the interpretation and the preservation of the 
        historic site.
            (2) Integration with national monuments.--The plan shall 
        outline how interpretation and programming for the historic site 
        shall be integrated and coordinated with the Statue of Liberty 
        National Monument, Ellis Island National Monument, and Castle 
        Clinton National Monument to enhance the story of the historic 
        site and these National Monuments.
            (3) Completion.--The plan shall be completed not later than 
        2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

    (d) Limited Role of Secretary.--Nothing in this title authorizes the 
Secretary to acquire the property at 97 Orchard Street or to assume 
overall financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or 
management of the historic site.

SEC. 105. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary 
to carry out this title.

                         TITLE II--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 201. CASA MALPAIS NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK, ARIZONA.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds and declares that--
            (1) the Casa Malpais National Historic Landmark was occupied 
        by one of the largest and most sophisticated Mogollon 
        communities in the United States;
            (2) the landmark includes a 58-room masonry pueblo, 
        including stairways, Great Kiva complex, and fortification 
        walls, a prehistoric trail, and catacomb chambers where the 
        deceased were placed;
            (3) the Casa Malpais was designated as a national historic 
        landmark by the Secretary of the Interior in 1964; and
            (4) the State of Arizona and the community of Springerville 
        are undertaking a program of interpretation and preservation of 
        the landmark.

    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to assist in the 
preservation and interpretation of the Casa Malpais National Historic 
Landmark for the benefit of the public.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--
            (1) In general.--In furtherance of the purpose of this 
        section, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter 
        into cooperative agreements with the State of Arizona and the 
        town of Springerville, Arizona, pursuant to which the Secretary 
        may provide technical assistance to interpret, operate, and 
        maintain the Casa Malpais National Historic Landmark and may 
        also provide financial assistance for planning, staff training, 
        and development of the Casa Malpais National Historic Landmark, 
        but not including other routine operations.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3398]]

            (2) Additional provisions.--Any such agreement may also 
        contain provisions that--
                    (A) the Secretary, acting through the Director of 
                the National Park Service, shall have right to access at 
                all reasonable times to all public portions of the 
                property covered by such agreement for the purpose of 
                interpreting the landmark; and
                    (B) no changes or alterations shall be made in the 
                landmark except by mutual agreement between the 
                Secretary and the other parties to all such agreements.

    (d) Appropriations.--There are authorized to be appropriated such 
sums as may be necessary to provide financial assistance in accordance 
with this section.
SEC. 202. PROVISION FOR ROADS IN PICTURED ROCKS NATIONAL 
                        LAKESHORE.

    Section 6 of the Act of October 15, 1966, entitled ``An Act to 
establish in the State of Michigan the Pictured Rocks National 
Lakeshore, and for other purposes'' (16 U.S.C. 460s-5), is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In subsection (b)(1) by striking ``including a scenic 
        shoreline drive'' and inserting ``including appropriate 
        improvements to Alger County Road H-58''.
            (2) By adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(c) Prohibition of Certain Construction.--A scenic shoreline drive 
may not be constructed in the Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore.''.

    Approved November 12, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1408:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-303 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 2, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House, amended.
            Oct. 14, Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>