[105th Congress Public Law 363]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ363.105]


[[Page 3295]]

 WEIR FARM NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE VISITOR AND ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES

[[Page 112 STAT. 3296]]

Public Law 105-363
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To amend the Weir Farm National Historic Site Establishment Act of 1990 
to authorize the acquisition of additional acreage for the historic site 
 to permit the development of visitor and administrative facilities and 
to authorize the appropriation of additional amounts for the acquisition 
of real and personal property, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 10, 
                          1998 -  [S. 1718]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. WEIR FARM NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE, CONNECTICUT.

    (a) Acquisition of Land for Visitor and Administrative Facilities.--
Section 4 of the Weir Farm National Historic Site Establishment Act of 
1990 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 101-485; 104 Stat. 1171) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Acquisition of Land for Visitor and Administrative Facilities; 
Limitations.--
            ``(1) Acquisition.--
                    ``(A) In general.--To preserve and maintain the 
                historic setting and character of the historic site, the 
                Secretary may acquire not more than 15 additional acres 
                for the development of visitor and administrative 
                facilities for the historic site.
                    ``(B) Proximity.--The property acquired under this 
                subsection shall be contiguous to or in close proximity 
                to the property described in subsection (b).
                    ``(C) Management.--The acquired property shall be 
                included within the boundary of the historic site and 
                shall be managed and maintained as part of the historic 
                site.
            ``(2) Development.--The Secretary shall keep development of 
        the property acquired under paragraph (1) to a minimum so that 
        the character of the acquired property will be similar to the 
        natural and undeveloped landscape of the property described in 
        subsection (b).
            ``(3) Agreements.--Prior to and as a prerequisite to any 
        development of visitor and administrative facilities on the 
        property acquired under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall enter 
        into one or more agreements with the appropriate zoning 
        authority of the town of Ridgefield, Connecticut, and the town 
        of Wilton, Connecticut, for the purposes of--
                    ``(A) developing the parking, visitor, and 
                administrative facilities for the historic site; and
                    ``(B) managing bus traffic to the historic site and 
                limiting parking for large tour buses to an offsite 
                location.''.

    (b) Increase in Maximum Acquisition Authority.--Section 7 of the 
Weir Farm National Historic Site Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3297]]

461 note; Public Law 101-485; 104 Stat. 1173) is amended by striking 
``$1,500,000'' and inserting ``$4,000,000''.
SEC. 2. ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT OF WILCOX RANCH, UTAH, FOR 
                    WILDLIFE HABITAT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The lands within the Wilcox Ranch in eastern Utah are 
        prime habitat for wild turkeys, eagles, hawks, bears, cougars, 
        elk, deer, bighorn sheep, and many other important species, and 
        Range Creek within the Wilcox Ranch could become a blue ribbon 
        trout stream.
            (2) These lands also contain a great deal of undisturbed 
        cultural and archeological resources, including ancient pottery, 
        arrowheads, and rock homes constructed centuries ago.
            (3) These lands, while comprising only approximately 3,800 
        acres, control access to over 75,000 acres of Federal lands 
        under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (4) Acquisition of the Wilcox Ranch would benefit the people 
        of the United States by preserving and enhancing important 
        wildlife habitat, ensuring access to lands of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, and protecting priceless archeological and cultural 
        resources.
            (5) These lands, if acquired by the United States, can be 
        managed by the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources at no 
        additional expense to the Federal Government.

    (b) Acquisition of Lands.--As soon as practicable, after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall acquire, 
through purchase, the Wilcox Ranch located in Emery County, in eastern 
Utah.
    (c) Funds for Purchase.--The Secretary of the Interior is authorized 
to use not more than $5,000,000 from the land and water conservation 
fund established under section 2 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund 
Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-5) for the purchase of the Wilcox Ranch 
under subsection (b).
    (d) Management of Lands.--Upon payment by the State of Utah of one-
half of the purchase price of the Wilcox Ranch to the United States, or 
transfer by the State of Utah of lands of the same such value to the 
United States, the Secretary of the Interior shall transfer to the State 
of Utah all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
those Wilcox Ranch lands acquired under subsection (b) for management by 
the State Division of Wildlife Resources for wildlife habitat and public 
access.

SEC. 3. LAND CONVEYANCE, YAVAPAI COUNTY, ARIZONA.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey, without consideration 
and for educational related purposes, to Embry-Riddle Aeronautical 
University, Florida, a nonprofit corporation authorized to do business 
in the State of Arizona, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States, if any, to a parcel of real property consisting of approximately 
16 acres in Yavapai County, Arizona, which is more fully described as 
the parcel lying east of the east right-of-way boundary of the Willow 
Creek Road in the southwest one-quarter of the southwest one-quarter 
(SW\1/4\SW\1/4\) of section 2, township 14 north, range 2 west, Gila and 
Salt River meridian.
    (b) Terms of Conveyance.--Subject to the limitation that the land to 
be conveyed is to be used only for educational related purposes, the 
conveyance under subsection (a) is to be made without

[[Page 112 STAT. 3298]]

any other conditions, limitations, reservations, restrictions, or terms 
by the United States. If the Secretary of the Interior determines that 
the conveyed lands are not being used for educational related purposes, 
at the option of the United States, the lands shall revert to the United 
States.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 16 USC 47-1 note.>>  LAND EXCHANGE, EL PORTAL 
                    ADMINISTRATIVE SITE, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Authorization of Exchange.--If the non-Federal lands described 
in subsection (b) are conveyed to the United States in accordance with 
this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the party 
conveying the non-Federal lands all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of land consisting of approximately 8 
acres administered by the Department of Interior as part of the El 
Portal Administrative Site in the State of California, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``El Portal Administrative Site Land 
Exchange'', dated June 1998.
    (b) Receipt of Non-Federal Lands.--The parcel of non-Federal lands 
referred to in subsection (a) consists of approximately 8 acres, known 
as the Yosemite View parcel, which is located adjacent to the El Portal 
Administrative Site, as generally depicted on the map referred to in 
subsection (a). Title to the non-Federal lands must be acceptable to the 
Secretary of the Interior, and the conveyance shall be subject to such 
valid existing rights of record as may be acceptable to the Secretary. 
The parcel shall conform with the title approval standards applicable to 
Federal land acquisitions.
    (c) Equalization of Values.--If the value of the Federal land and 
non-Federal lands to be exchanged under this section are not equal in 
value, the difference in value shall be equalized through a cash payment 
or the provision of goods or services as agreed upon by the Secretary 
and the party conveying the non-Federal lands.
    (d) Applicability of Other Laws.--Except as otherwise provided in 
this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall process the land 
exchange authorized by this section in the manner provided in part 2200 
of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of 
the enactment of this subtitle.
    (e) Boundary Adjustment.--Upon completion of the land exchange, the 
Secretary shall adjust the boundaries of the El Portal Administrative 
Site as necessary to reflect the exchange. Lands acquired by the 
Secretary under this section shall be administered as part of the El 
Portal Administrative Site.
    (f) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file and 
available for inspection in appropriate offices of the Department of the 
Interior.

[[Page 112 STAT. 3299]]

    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Interior 
may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
land exchange under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.

    Approved November 10, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1718:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-328 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 2, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House, amended.
            Oct. 14, Senate concurred in House amendment.

                                  <all>