[105th Congress Public Law 239]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ239.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 1564]]

Public Law 105-239
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey the Marion National 
   Fish Hatchery and the Claude Harris National Aquacultural Research 
 Center to the State of Alabama, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Sept. 
                        23, 1998 -  [S. 1883]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Marion National 
Fish Hatchery and Claude Harris National Aquacultural Research Center 
Conveyance Act.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Marion National Fish Hatchery and 
Claude Harris National Aquacultural Research Center Conveyance Act''.
SEC. 2. CONVEYANCE OF MARION NATIONAL FISH HATCHERY AND CLAUDE 
                      HARRIS NATIONAL AQUACULTURAL RESEARCH CENTER 
                      TO THE STATE OF ALABAMA.

    (a) Conveyance Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 180 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Interior shall convey to the State of Alabama without 
        reimbursement, and subject to the condition described in 
        paragraph (2), all right, title, and interest of the United 
        States in and to the properties described in subsection (b) for 
        use by the Game and Fish Division of the Department of 
        Conservation and Natural Resources of the State of Alabama 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Game and Fish Division'') 
        as part of the fish culture program of the State of Alabama.
            (2) Lease of claude harris national aquacultural research 
        center.--As a condition of the conveyance under paragraph (1), 
        the Game and Fish Division shall offer to lease the property 
        described in subsection (b)(1)(B) to the Alabama Agriculture 
        Experiment Station--
                    (A) at no cost to the Station or the Game and Fish 
                Division; and
                    (B) for the period requested by the Station and 
                provided by Alabama law.

    (b) Description of Properties.--The properties referred to in 
subsection (a)(1) consist of--
            (1)(A) the portion of the Marion National Fish Hatchery 
        leased to the Game and Fish Division, located 7 miles northeast 
        of Marion, Alabama, on State Highway 175, as described in 
        Amendment No. 2 to the Cooperative Agreement dated June 6, 1974, 
        between the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the Game 
        and Fish Division, consisting of approximately 300 acres; and

[[Page 112 STAT. 1565]]

            (B) the Claude Harris National Aquacultural Research Center, 
        located 7 miles northeast of Marion, Alabama, on State Highway 
        175, as described in a document of the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service entitled ``EXHIBIT A'' and dated March 19, 
        1996, consisting of approximately 298 acres;
            (2) all improvements and related personal property under the 
        control of the Secretary of the Interior that are located on the 
        properties described in paragraph (1), including buildings, 
        structures, and equipment; and
            (3) all easements, leases, and water and timber rights 
        relating to the properties described in paragraph (1).

    (c) Reversionary Interest.--
            (1) Requirement.--If any property conveyed to the State of 
        Alabama under this section is used for any purpose other than 
        the use authorized under subsection (a), all right, title, and 
        interest in and to all property conveyed under this section 
        shall revert to the United States.
            (2) Condition of property on reversion.--In the case of a 
        reversion of property under paragraph (1), the State of Alabama 
        shall ensure that all property reverting to the United States 
        under this subsection is in substantially the same condition as, 
        or in better condition than, at the time of conveyance under 
        subsection (a).

    Approved September 23, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 1883:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-263 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            July 31, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 9, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>