[105th Congress Public Law 356]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ356.105]


[[Page 3267]]

               CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE

[[Page 112 STAT. 3268]]

Public Law 105-356
105th Congress

                                 An Act


 
       To establish the Little Rock Central High School National 
   Historic <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 1998 -  [S. 2232]>> Site in the State of 
                    Arkansas, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 
note [table].>> 

SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the 1954 United States Supreme Court decision of Brown 
        v. Board of Education, which mandated an end to the segregation 
        of public schools, was one of the most significant Court 
        decisions in the history of the United States.
            (2) the admission of nine African-American students, known 
        as the ``Little Rock Nine'', to Little Rock's Central High 
        School as a result of the Brown decision, was the most prominent 
        national example of the implementation of the Brown decision, 
        and served as a catalyst for the integration of other, 
        previously segregated public schools in the United States;
            (3) 1997 marked the 70th anniversary of the construction of 
        Central High School, which has been named by the American 
        Institute of Architects as ``the most beautiful high school 
        building in America'';
            (4) Central High School was included on the National 
        Register of Historic Places in 1977 and designated by the 
        Secretary of the Interior as a National Historic Landmark in 
        1982 in recognition of its national significance in the 
        development of the Civil Rights movement in the United States; 
        and
            (5) the designation of Little Rock Central High School as a 
        unit of the National Park System will recognize the significant 
        role the school played in the desegregation of public schools in 
        the South and will interpret for future generations the events 
        associated with early desegregation of southern schools.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to preserve, protect, and 
interpret for the benefit, education, and inspiration of present and 
future generations, Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, and 
its role in the integration of public schools and the development of the 
Civil Rights movement in the United States.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF CENTRAL HIGH SCHOOL NATIONAL HISTORIC 
                    SITE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Little Rock Central High School National 
Historic Site in the State of Arkansas (hereinafter referred to as the 
``historic site'') is hereby established as a unit of the National Park 
System. The historic site shall consist of lands and interests therein 
comprising the Central High School campus and

[[Page 112 STAT. 3269]]

adjacent properties in Little Rock, Arkansas, as generally depicted on a 
map entitled ``Proposed Little Rock Central High School National 
Historic Site'', numbered LIRO-20,000 and dated July, 1998. Such map 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the National Park Service.
    (b) Administration of Historic Site.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall administer the 
historic site in accordance with this Act. Only those lands under the 
direct jurisdiction of the Secretary shall be administered in accordance 
with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National 
Park System including the Act of August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4) and 
the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461-467). Nothing in this Act 
shall affect the authority of the Little Rock School District to 
administer Little Rock Central High School nor shall this Act affect the 
authorities of the City of Little Rock in the neighborhood surrounding 
the school.
    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--(1) The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with appropriate public and private agencies, 
organizations, and institutions (including, but not limited to, the 
State of Arkansas, the City of Little Rock, the Little Rock School 
District, Central High Museum, Inc., Central High Neighborhood, Inc., or 
the University of Arkansas) in furtherance of the purposes of this Act.
    (2) The Secretary shall coordinate visitor interpretation of the 
historic site with the Little Rock School District and the Central High 
School Museum, Inc.
     <<NOTE: Deadline.>> (d) General Management Plan.--Within three 
years after the date funds are made available, the Secretary shall 
prepare a general management plan for the historic site. The plan shall 
be prepared in consultation and coordination with the Little Rock School 
District, the City of Little Rock, Central High Museum, Inc., and with 
other appropriate organizations and agencies. The plan shall identify 
specific roles and responsibilities for the National Park Service in 
administering the historic site, and shall identify lands or property, 
if any, that might be necessary for the National Park Service to acquire 
in order to carry out its responsibilities. The plan shall also identify 
the roles and responsibilities of other entities in administering the 
historic site and its programs. The plan shall include a management 
framework that ensures the administration of the historic site does not 
interfere with the continuing use of Central High School as an 
educational institution.

    (e) Acquisition of Property.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire 
by purchase with donated or appropriated funds by exchange, or donation 
the lands and interests therein located within the boundaries of the 
historic site: Provided, That the Secretary may only acquire lands or 
interests therein within the consent of the owner thereof: Provided 
further, That lands or interests therein owned by the State of Arkansas 
or a political subdivision thereof, may only be acquired by donation or 
exchange.

SEC. 3. DESEGREGATION IN PUBLIC EDUCATION THEME STUDY.

     <<NOTE: Deadline.>> (a) Theme Study.--Within two years after the 
date funds are made available, the Secretary shall prepare and transmit 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives a National 
Historic Landmark Theme Study (hereinafter referred to as the ``theme 
study'') on the history of desegregation in public

[[Page 112 STAT. 3270]]

education. The purpose of the theme study shall be to identify sites, 
districts, buildings, structures, and landscapes that best illustrate or 
commemorate key events or decisions in the historical movement to 
provide for racial desegregation in public education. On the basis of 
the theme study, the Secretary shall identify possible new national 
historic landmarks appropriate to this theme and prepare a list in order 
of importance or merit of the most appropriate sites for national 
historic landmark designation.
    (b) Opportunities for Education and Research.--The theme study shall 
identify appropriate means to establish linkages between sites 
identified in subsection (a) and between those sites and the Central 
High School National Historic Site established in section 2, and with 
other existing units of the National Park System to maximize 
opportunities for public education and scholarly research on 
desegregation in public education. The theme study also shall recommend 
opportunities for cooperative arrangements with State and local 
governments, educational institutions, local historical organizations, 
and other appropriate entities to preserve and interpret key sites in 
the history of desegregation in public education.

    (c) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
cooperative agreements with one or more educational institutions, public 
history organizations, or civil rights organizations knowledgeable about 
desegregation in public education to prepare the theme study and to 
ensure that the theme study meets scholarly standards.
    (d) Theme Study Coordination With General Management Plan.--The 
theme study shall be prepared as part of the preparation and development 
of the general management plan for the Little Rock Central High School 
National Historic Site established in section 2.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary 
to carry out this Act.

    Approved November 6, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 2232:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 105-307 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 2, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 8, considered and passed House.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 34 (1998):
            Nov. 6, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>