[105th Congress Public Law 349]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ349.105]


[[Page 112 STAT. 3216]]

Public Law 105-349
105th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
   Recognizing the accomplishments of Inspectors General since their 
 creation in 1978 in preventing and detecting waste, fraud, abuse, and 
 mismanagement, and in promoting economy, efficiency, and effectiveness 
  in the Federal Government. <<NOTE: Nov. 2, 1998 -  [S.J. Res. 58]>> 

Whereas the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) was signed 
    into law on October 12, 1978, with overwhelming bipartisan support;
Whereas Inspectors General now exist in the 27 largest executive 
    agencies and in 30 other designated Federal entities;
Whereas Inspectors General serve the American taxpayer by promoting 
    economy, efficiency, effectiveness and integrity in the 
    administration of the programs and operations of the Federal 
    Government;
Whereas Inspectors General conduct and supervise audits and 
    investigations to both prevent and detect waste, fraud and abuse in 
    the programs and operations of the Federal Government;
Whereas Inspectors General make Congress and agency heads aware, through 
    semiannual reports and other activities, of problems and 
    deficiencies relating to the administration of programs and 
    operations of the Federal Government;
Whereas Inspectors General work with Congress and agency heads to 
    recommend policies to promote economy and efficiency in the 
    administration of, or preventing and detecting waste, fraud and 
    abuse in, the programs and operations of the Federal Government;
Whereas Inspectors General receive and investigate information from 
    Federal employees and other dedicated citizens regarding the 
    possible existence of an activity constituting a violation of law, 
    rules, or regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse 
    of authority or a substantial and specific danger to public health 
    and safety;
Whereas Inspector General actions result in, on a yearly basis, 
    recommendations for several billions of dollars to be spent more 
    effectively; thousands of successful criminal prosecutions; hundreds 
    of millions of dollars returned to the United States Treasury 
    through investigative recoveries; and the suspension and disbarment 
    of thousands of individuals or entities from doing business with the 
    Government; and
Whereas for 20 years the Offices of Inspectors General have worked with 
    Congress to facilitate the exercise of effective legislative 
    oversight to improve the programs and operations of the Federal 
    Government: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Congress--

[[Page 112 STAT. 3217]]

            (1) recognizes the many accomplishments of the Offices of 
        Inspectors General in preventing and detecting waste, fraud, and 
        abuse in the Federal Government;
            (2) commends the Offices of Inspectors General and their 
        employees for the dedication and professionalism displayed in 
        the performance of their duties; and
            (3) reaffirms the role of Inspectors General in promoting 
        economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the administration of 
        the programs and operations of the Federal Government.

    Approved November 2, 1998.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 58:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 144 (1998):
            Oct. 1, considered and passed Senate.
            Oct. 10, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>