[108th Congress Public Law 122]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ122.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1344]]

Public Law 108-122
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Recognizing the Dr. Samuel D. Harris National Museum of Dentistry, an 
affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution in Baltimore, Maryland, as the 
official national museum of dentistry in the United States. <<NOTE: Nov. 
                      11, 2003 -  [H.J. Res. 52]>> 

Whereas the Dr. Samuel D. Harris National Museum of Dentistry, an 
    affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution, is an international 
    resource with the primary mission of educating people, especially 
    children, about the history of dentistry and the importance of good 
    oral care;

Whereas the museum is the most comprehensive museum of dentistry in the 
    Nation, showcasing the people, objects, and events that have created 
    and defined the dental profession;

Whereas the museum is located on the campus of the University of 
    Maryland in Baltimore, home of the world's first dental school, 
    founded in 1840;

Whereas the museum educates the public about the importance of oral 
    health in overall health through exciting, interactive exhibitions 
    and the careful preservation and creative presentation of 
    significant dental artifacts; and

Whereas the museum is a national center for both the public and the 
    profession to obtain information concerning historical aspects of 
    oral health and preventive care, for scholars to study the evolution 
    of dental treatment, and for dental practitioners to take pride in 
    the accomplishments of their profession: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the museum, known as the 
Dr. Samuel D. Harris National Museum of Dentistry, an affiliate of the 
Smithsonian Institution, located at 31 South Greene Street in Baltimore, 
Maryland, is recognized as the official national museum of dentistry in 
the United States.

    Approved November 11, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 52:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Oct. 7, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 23, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>