[108th Congress Public Law 432]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ432.108]


[[Page 118 STAT. 2611]]

Public Law 108-432
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
Recognizing the 60th anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge during World 
           War II. <<NOTE: Dec. 3, 2004 -  [H.J. Res. 110]>> 

Whereas the battle in the European theater of operations during World 
    War II known as the Battle of the Bulge was fought from December 16, 
    1944, to January 25, 1945;

Whereas the Battle of the Bulge was a major German offensive in the 
    Ardennes forest region of Belgium and Luxembourg which took Allied 
    forces by surprise and was intended to split the Allied forces in 
    Europe by breaking through the Allied lines, crippling the Allied 
    fuel supply lines, and exacerbating tensions within the alliance;

Whereas 600,000 American troops, joined by 55,000 British, Belgian, 
    Canadian, and other soldiers, participated in the Battle of the 
    Bulge, overcoming numerous disadvantages in the early days of the 
    battle that included fewer numbers, treacherous terrain, and bitter 
    weather conditions;

Whereas the Battle of the Bulge resulted in 81,000 American and 1,400 
    British casualties, of whom approximately 19,000 American and 200 
    British soldiers were killed, with the remainder wounded, captured, 
    or listed as missing in action;

Whereas the worst atrocity involving Americans in the European theater 
    during World War II, known as the Malmedy Massacre, occurred on 
    December 17, 1944, when 86 unarmed American prisoners of war were 
    gunned down by elements of the German 1st SS Panzer Division;

Whereas American, British, Belgian, Canadian, and other forces overcame 
    great odds throughout the battle, including most famously the action 
    of the 101st Airborne Division in holding back German forces at the 
    key Belgian crossroads town of Bastogne, thereby preventing German 
    forces from achieving their main objective of reaching Antwerp as 
    well as the Meuse River line;

Whereas the success of American, British, Belgian, Canadian, and other 
    forces in defeating the German attack made possible the defeat of 
    Nazi Germany four months later in April 1945;

Whereas thousands of United States veterans of the Battle of the Bulge 
    have traveled to Belgium and Luxembourg in the years since the 
    battle to honor their fallen comrades who died during the battle;

Whereas the peoples of Belgium and Luxembourg, symbolizing their 
    friendship and gratitude toward the American soldiers who fought

[[Page 118 STAT. 2612]]

    to secure their freedom, have graciously hosted countless veterans 
    groups over the years;

Whereas Luxembourg has erected over 90 monuments and plaques 
    commemorating the liberation of Luxembourg by United States Armed 
    Forces during World War II;

Whereas the 60th anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge in 2004 will be 
    marked by many commemorative events by citizens of the United 
    States, Belgium, Luxembourg, and many other nations;

Whereas the friendship between the United States and both Belgium and 
    Luxembourg is strong today in part because of the Battle of the 
    Bulge; and

Whereas section 204 of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2002 (38 U.S.C. 2409 
    note) authorized the Secretary of the Army to place in Arlington 
    National Cemetery a memorial marker honoring those who fought in the 
    Battle of the Bulge: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) recognizes the 60th anniversary of the battle in the 
        European theater of operations during World War II known as the 
        Battle of the Bulge, which began with a German surprise attack 
        in the Ardennes forest region of Belgium and Luxembourg and 
        ended with an Allied victory that made possible the defeat of 
        Nazi Germany four months later;
            (2) honors those who gave their lives during the Battle of 
        the Bulge;
            (3) authorizes the President to issue a proclamation calling 
        upon the people of the United States to honor the veterans of 
        the Battle of the Bulge with appropriate programs, ceremonies, 
        and activities; and
            (4) reaffirms the bonds of friendship between the United 
        States and both Belgium and Luxembourg.

    Approved December 3, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 110:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Nov. 16, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>