[108th Congress Public Law 9]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ009.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 556]]

Public Law 108-9
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
     Recognizing the 92d birthday of Ronald Reagan. <<NOTE: Mar. 6, 
                        2003 -  [H.J. Res. 19]>> 

Whereas February 6, 2003, is the 92d birthday of Ronald Wilson Reagan;
Whereas Ronald Reagan is the first former President ever to attain the 
    age of 92;
Whereas both Ronald Reagan and his wife Nancy Reagan have distinguished 
    records of public service to the United States, the American people, 
    and the international community;
Whereas Ronald Reagan was twice elected by overwhelming margins as 
    President of the United States;
Whereas Ronald Reagan fulfilled his pledge to help restore ``the great, 
    confident roar of American progress, growth, and optimism'' and 
    ensure renewed economic prosperity;
Whereas Ronald Reagan's leadership was instrumental in extending freedom 
    and democracy around the globe and uniting a world divided by the 
    Cold War;
Whereas Ronald Reagan is loved and admired by millions of Americans, and 
    by countless others around the world;
Whereas the recent tragic loss of the space shuttle Columbia and her 
    crew remind us of how, 17 years ago, Ronald Reagan's eloquence 
    helped heal the Nation after the Challenger disaster;
Whereas Nancy Reagan not only served as a gracious First Lady but also 
    led a national crusade against illegal drug use;
Whereas, together Ronald and Nancy Reagan dedicated their lives to 
    promoting national pride and to bettering the quality of life in the 
    United States and throughout the world; and
Whereas the thoughts and prayers of the Congress and the country are 
    with Ronald Reagan in his courageous battle with Alzheimer's 
    disease: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That the Congress, on behalf of 
the American people, extends its birthday greetings and best wishes to 
Ronald Reagan on his 92d birthday.

    Approved March 6, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 19:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Feb. 11, considered and passed House.
            Feb. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>