[108th Congress Public Law 427]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ427.108]

[[Page 118 STAT. 2430]]

Public Law 108-427
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To expand research information regarding multidisciplinary research 
  projects and epidemiological studies. <<NOTE: Nov. 30, 2004 -  [H.R. 
                                5213]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Research Reveiw 
Act of 2004.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Research Review Act of 2004''.

SEC. 2. MULTI-DISCIPLINARY RESEARCH TEAM AND CONSORTIA REPORT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Secretary''), in coordination with the 
Director of the National Institutes of Health, shall prepare a report 
outlining the methods by which the Roadmap for Medical Research, an 
initiative of such Institutes, has advanced the use of multidisciplinary 
research teams and consortia of research institutions to advance 
treatments, develop new therapies, and collaborate on clinical trials, 
including with respect to spinal cord injury and paralysis research.
    (b) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2005, the Secretary shall 
submit the report under subsection (a) to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.

SEC. 3. EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDY REPORT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall prepare a report 
outlining the epidemiological studies currently under way at such 
Centers, future planned studies, the criteria involved in determining 
what epidemiological studies to conduct, defer, or suspend, and the 
scope of those studies, including with respect to the inflammatory bowel 
disease epidemiological study. The report shall include a description of 
the activities the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention undertakes 
to establish partnerships with research and patient advocacy communities 
to expand epidemiological studies.
    (b) Report.--Not later than May 1, 2005, the Secretary shall submit 
the report under subsection (a) to the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.

[[Page 118 STAT. 2431]]

SEC. 4. STUDY BY GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE ON MEDICARE AND 
            MEDICAID COVERAGE STANDARDS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the coverage standards that, under the programs under 
titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act (commonly known as 
Medicare and Medicaid, respectively), apply to patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease for the following therapies:
            (1) Parenteral nutrition.
            (2) Enteral nutrition formula.
            (3) Medically necessary food products.
            (4) Ostomy supplies.
            (5) Therapies approved by the Food and Drug Administration 
        for Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis.

    (b) Content.--The study under subsection (a) shall take into account 
the appropriate outpatient or home health care delivery settings.
    (c) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Congress a report describing the findings of the study under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 5. STUDY BY GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE INVOLVING DISABILITY 
            INSURANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study of the problems patients encounter when applying for 
disability insurance benefits under title II of the Social Security Act. 
The study shall include recommendations for improving the application 
process for patients with inflammatory bowel disease.
    (b) Report.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Congress a report describing the findings of the study under subsection 
(a).

    Approved November 30, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5213:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Oct. 6, 7, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>