[108th Congress Private Law 6]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl006.108]


[[Page 1]]

Private Law 108-6
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Tanya Andrea Goudeau. <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 2004 -  [H.R. 
                                 530]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. IMMEDIATE RELATIVE STATUS FOR TANYA ANDREA GOUDEAU.

    (a) In General.--Tanya Andrea Goudeau shall be classified as a child 
under section 101(b)(1)(E) of the Immigration and Nationality Act for 
purposes of approval of a relative visa petition filed under section 204 
of such Act by her adoptive parent and the filing of an application for 
an immigrant visa or adjustment of status.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Tanya Andrea Goudeau enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she shall 
be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if 
otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status under section 
245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Deadline for Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) 
and (b) shall apply only if the petition and the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status are filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Tanya Andrea Goudeau, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, for 
the current or next following fiscal year, the worldwide level of 
family-sponsored immigrants under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Tanya Andrea 
Goudeau shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY FOR CITIZENSHIP.

    For purposes of section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
Tanya Andrea Goudeau shall be considered to have satisfied

[[Page 2]]

the requirements applicable to adopted children under section 101(b)(1) 
of such Act.

    Approved December 23, 2004.