[108th Congress Private Law 4]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:pvtl004.108]
Private Law 108-4
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Durreshahwar Durreshahwar, Nida Hasan, Asna Hasan, 
   Anum Hasan, and Iqra Hasan. <<NOTE: Oct. 30, 2004 -  [H.R. 867]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR DURRESHAHWAR DURRESHAHWAR, NIDA 
            HASAN, ASNA HASAN, ANUM HASAN, AND IQRA HASAN.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, Durreshahwar Durreshahwar, 
Nida Hasan, Asna Hasan, Anum Hasan, and Iqra Hasan shall each be 
eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status 
to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence upon 
filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa under section 
204 of such Act or for adjustment of status to lawful permanent 
resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Durreshahwar Durreshahwar, Nida Hasan, 
Asna Hasan, Anum Hasan, or Iqra Hasan enters the United States before 
the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), she shall be considered 
to have entered and remained lawfully and shall, if otherwise eligible, 
be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Deadline <<NOTE: Applicability.>> for Application and Payment of 
Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Durreshahwar Durreshahwar, Nida 
Hasan, Asna Hasan, Anum Hasan, and Iqra Hasan, the Secretary of State 
shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 5, during the current or 
next following fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas that are 
made available to natives of the country of the aliens' birth under 
section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act or, if applicable, 
the total number of immigrant visas that are made available to natives 
of the country of the aliens' birth under section 202(e) of such Act.
    (e) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Durreshahwar 
Durreshahwar, Nida Hasan, Asna Hasan, Anum Hasan, and Iqra Hasan shall 
not, by virtue of such relationship,
be accorded any right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and 
Nationality Act.

    Approved October 30, 2004.