[108th Congress Public Law 480]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ480.108]


[[Page 118 STAT. 3907]]

Public Law 108-480
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To authorize funds for an educational center for the Castillo de San 
   Marcos National Monument, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 23, 
                         2004 -  [H.R. 2457]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Florida. 16 USC 431 
note.>> assembled,

   TITLE I--CASTILLO <<NOTE: Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
   Preservation and Education Act.>> DE SAN MARCOS NATIONAL MONUMENT 
PRESERVATION ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Castillo de San Marcos National 
Monument Preservation and Education Act''.

SEC. 102. VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Authorization.--Subject to the availability of appropriations 
and the project being prioritized in the National Park Services 5-year, 
line-item construction program, the Secretary of the Interior (referred 
to in this section as the ``Secretary'') may design and construct a 
Visitor Center for the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
(referred to in this section as the ``Monument'').
    (b) Preferred Alternative.--The Visitor Center authorized in 
subsection (a) shall be located and constructed in accordance with the 
Preferred Alternative identified in the Record of Decision for the 
General Management Plan for the Monument, expected to be signed in 2005.

SEC. 103. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.

    The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the City of 
St. Augustine, Florida, the Colonial St. Augustine Preservation 
Foundation, other Federal, State, and local departments or agencies, 
academic institutions, and non-profit entities for the planning and 
design, construction, management, and operation of the Visitor Center.

SEC. 104. BOUNDARY EXPANSION.

    (a) Property Acquisition.--If the Preferred Alternative for the 
Visitor Center authorized by section 102 is located outside the boundary 
of the Monument, the Secretary is authorized to acquire the site for the 
Visitor Center, from willing sellers, by donation, purchase with donated 
or appropriated funds, or by exchange.

[[Page 118 STAT. 3908]]

    (b) Administration of Newly Acquired Land.--Land added to the 
Monument pursuant to subsection (a) shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
    (c) Boundary Modification.--The boundary of the Monument shall be 
modified to reflect the acquisition of land authorized in subsection (a) 
after completion of the acquisition.

SEC. 105. PROJECT APPROVAL.

    Prior to initiating any planning, design, or construction on the 
Visitor Center authorized by section 102, the project must be reviewed 
and approved by the National Park Service consistent with partnership 
construction guidelines established by that agency.

  TITLE II--CASTILLO <<NOTE: Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
   Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004.>> DE SAN MARCOS NATIONAL MONUMENT 
BOUNDARY MODIFICATION

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Castillo de San Marcos National 
Monument Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004''.

SEC. 202. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The early defense lines for Fort Marion, Florida, today 
        known as the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument, included 
        defenses extending in a line due west to the Sebastian River, a 
        distance of about one half mile.
            (2) In the 1830's, during the Seminole Wars in Florida, 
        these defensive lines were maintained, but as Florida became 
        more settled they fell into disrepair and/or became obsolete.
            (3) In 1908 the War Department deeded much of the property 
        running west to the Sebastian River to the St. Johns County 
        Board of Public Instruction. The portion of this property 
        remaining in federal ownership today is occupied by Orange 
        Street, a City of St. Augustine, Florida street.
            (4) For nearly a century, the City of St. Augustine has 
        maintained and managed Orange Street, a modern city street, and 
        associated utilities in the Orange Street corridor.
            (5) Any archeological remains that are still present on the 
        property overlaid by Orange Street are adequately protected by 
        the City's archeological ordinances, and by the City having an 
        archeologist on staff.
            (6) Although the city currently operates Orange Street under 
        a right-of-way from the National Park Service, from a management 
        perspective it is appropriate for the City of St. Augustine to 
        own Orange Street.

SEC. 203. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Conveyance of Land.--The Secretary of the Interior shall convey, 
without consideration, to the City of St. Augustine, Florida, all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to the lands known as 
Orange Street, a portion of the Castillo de San Marcos National Monument 
(Monument), consisting of approximately 3.1 acres, as shown on the map 
entitled Castillo de San Marcos National Monument Boundary Adjustment 
and Correction, numbered 343/80060, and dated April 2003. Upon 
completion of

[[Page 118 STAT. 3909]]

the conveyance, the Secretary shall revise the boundary of the Monument 
to exclude the land conveyed.
    (b) Boundary Revision.--Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the boundary of the Monument is 
revised to include an area of approximately 0.45 acres, as shown on the 
map identified in subsection (a). The Secretary shall administer the 
lands included in the boundary as part of the national monument in 
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

    Approved December 23, 2004.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2457:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 108-639 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 150 (2004):
            Sept. 13, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>