[108th Congress Private Law 1]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:pvtl001.108]
Private Law 108-1
108th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  For the relief of Lindita Idrizi Heath. <<NOTE: July 22, 2004 -  [S. 
                                 103]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR LINDITA IDRIZI HEATH.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 101(b)(1) and subsections 
(a) and (b) of section 201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
Lindita Idrizi Heath shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa 
or for adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for 
permanent residence upon filing an application for issuance of an 
immigrant visa under section 204 of that Act or for adjustment of status 
to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Lindita Idrizi Heath enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), Lindita 
Idrizi Heath shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully 
and shall, if otherwise eligible, be eligible for adjustment of status 
under section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act as of the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    (c) <<NOTE: Applicability.>> Deadline for Application and Payment of 
Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall apply only if the application for 
issuance of an immigrant visa or the application for adjustment of 
status is filed with appropriate fees within 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Lindita Idrizi Heath, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by one, 
during the current or next following fiscal year, the total number of 
immigrant visas that are made available to natives of the country of 
birth of Lindita Idrizi Heath under section 203(a) of the Immigration 
and Nationality Act or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant 
visas that are made available to natives of the country of birth of 
Lindita Idrizi Heath under section 202(e) of that Act.

SEC. 2. ELIGIBILITY FOR CITIZENSHIP.

    For purposes of section 320 of the Immigration and Nationality Act 
(8 U.S.C. 1431; relating to the automatic acquisition of citizenship by 
certain children born outside the United States), Lindita Idrizi Heath 
shall be considered to have satisfied the requirements applicable to 
adopted children under section 101(b)(1) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 
1101(b)(1)).

SEC. 3. LIMITATION.

    No natural parent, brother, or sister, if any, of Lindita Idrizi 
Heath shall, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any right, 
privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.

    Approved July 22, 2004.