[108th Congress Public Law 140]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ140.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1872]]

Public Law 108-140
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
   Recognizing the Agricultural Research Service of the Department of 
 Agriculture for 50 years of outstanding service to the Nation through 
    agricultural research. <<NOTE: Dec. 1, 2003 -  [S.J. Res. 22]>> 

Whereas the Agricultural Research Service is the primary research agency 
    of the Department of Agriculture and provides the Department of 
    Agriculture and other Federal offices with objective research that 
    is critical to the missions of those offices;
Whereas the agricultural research conducted by the Agricultural Research 
    Service has an enormous impact on the economic viability of 
    agriculture in the United States and around the world;
Whereas people around the world, especially rural Americans, enjoy a 
    higher quality of life due in part to the work of the Agricultural 
    Research Service to expand scientific knowledge;
Whereas the Agricultural Research Service has achieved major scientific 
    breakthroughs that have benefited farmers, ranchers, agribusiness, 
    and consumers;
Whereas the Agricultural Research Service has made scientific 
    discoveries and technological developments that address agricultural 
    problems of broad scope and high national priority, ensure safe and 
    high quality food and other agricultural products that meet 
    nutritional needs, and maintain a quality environment and natural 
    resource base; and
Whereas the Agricultural Research Service continues to play a vital role 
    in maintaining the global competitiveness and leadership of the 
    United States in the next millennium: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) recognizes the Agricultural Research Service of the 
        Department of Agriculture for 50 years of outstanding service to 
        the Nation through agricultural research; and

[[Page 117 STAT. 1873]]

            (2) acknowledges the promise of the Agricultural Research 
        Service to continue to perform outstanding agricultural research 
        in the next 50 years and beyond.

    Approved December 1, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 22:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Nov. 3, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 17, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>