[108th Congress Public Law 139]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ139.108]

[[Page 117 STAT. 1870]]

Public Law 108-139
108th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
      Commending the Inspectors General for their  efforts to prevent and detect waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement, and to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the Federal Government during the past 25 years. <<NOTE: Dec. 1, 2003 -  [S.J. Res. 18]>>


Whereas the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) was signed 
    into law on October 12, 1978, with overwhelming bipartisan support;
Whereas Inspectors General now exist in the 29 largest executive branch 
    agencies and in 28 other designated Federal entities;
Whereas Inspectors General work to serve the American taxpayer by 
    promoting economy, efficiency, effectiveness, and integrity in the 
    administration of the programs and operations of the Federal 
    Government;
Whereas Inspectors General conduct audits and investigations to both 
    prevent and detect waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in the 
    programs and operations of the Federal Government;
Whereas Inspectors General make Congress and agency heads aware, through 
    semiannual reports and other communications, of problems and 
    deficiencies in the administration of programs and operations of the 
    Federal Government;
Whereas Congress and agency heads utilize the recommendations of 
    Inspectors General in the development and implementation of policies 
    that promote economy and efficiency in the administration of, or 
    prevent and detect waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in, the 
    programs and operations of the Federal Government;
Whereas Federal employees and other dedicated citizens report 
    information to Inspectors General regarding the possible existence 
    of an activity constituting a violation of law, rules, or 
    regulations, or mismanagement, gross waste of funds, abuse of 
    authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health and 
    safety;
Whereas Inspector General audits and investigations result in annual 
    recommendations for more effective spending of billions of taxpayer 
    dollars, thousands of successful criminal prosecutions, hundreds of 
    millions of dollars returned to the United States Treasury through 
    investigative recoveries, and the suspension and debarment of 
    thousands of individuals or entities from doing business with the 
    Government; and
Whereas for 25 years the Inspectors General have worked with Congress to 
    facilitate effective oversight to improve the programs and 
    operations of the Federal Government: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--

[[Page 117 STAT. 1871]]

            (1) recognizes the many accomplishments of the Inspectors 
        General in preventing and detecting waste, fraud, abuse, and 
        mismanagement in the Federal Government;
            (2) commends the Inspectors General and their employees for 
        the dedication and professionalism displayed in the performance 
        of their duties; and
            (3) reaffirms the role of Inspectors General in promoting 
        economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of 
        the programs and operations of the Federal Government.

    Approved December 1, 2003.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 18 (H.J. Res. 70):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 149 (2003):
            Oct. 14, considered and passed Senate.
            Nov. 17, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>
 