[113th Congress Public Law 236]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 128 STAT. 2831]]

Public Law 113-236
113th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To improve the health of children and help better understand and enhance 
awareness about unexpected sudden death in early life. <<NOTE: Dec. 18, 
                          2014 -  [H.R. 669]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Sudden 
Unexpected Death Data Enhancement and Awareness Act. 42 USC 201 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sudden Unexpected Death Data 
Enhancement and Awareness Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 300c-13.>>  CONTINUING ACTIVITIES RELATED 
                    TO STILLBIRTH, SUDDEN UNEXPECTED INFANT DEATH 
                    AND SUDDEN UNEXPLAINED DEATH IN CHILDHOOD.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
continue activities related to still birth, sudden unexpected infant 
death, and sudden unexplained death in childhood, including, as 
appropriate--
            (1) collecting information, such as socio-demographic, death 
        scene investigation, clinical history, and autopsy information, 
        on stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden 
        unexplained death in childhood through the utilization of 
        existing surveillance systems and collaborating with States to 
        improve the quality, consistency, and collection of such data;
            (2) disseminating information to educate the public, health 
        care providers, and other stakeholders on stillbirth, sudden 
        unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in 
        childhood; and
            (3) collaborating with the Attorney General, State and local 
        departments of health, and other experts, as appropriate, to 
        provide consistent information for medical examiners and 
        coroners, law enforcement personnel, and health care providers 
        related to death scene investigations and autopsies for sudden 
        unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in 
        childhood, in order to improve the quality and consistency of 
        the data collected at such death scenes and to promote 
        consistent reporting on the cause of death after autopsy to 
        inform prevention, intervention, and other activities.

    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
submit to Congress a report that includes a description of any 
activities that are being carried out by agencies within the Department 
of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, related to 
stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death,

[[Page 128 STAT. 2832]]

and sudden unexplained death in childhood, including those activities 
identified under subsection (a).
SEC. 3. NO ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS.

    This Act shall not be construed to increase the amount of 
appropriations that are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal 
year.

    Approved December 18, 2014.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 669:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 113-557 (Comm. on Energy and Commerce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 160 (2014):
            Sept. 9, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 20, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Dec. 3, House concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>