[113th Congress Public Law 272]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 2951]]

                   UKRAINE FREEDOM SUPPORT ACT OF 2014

[[Page 128 STAT. 2952]]

Public Law 113-272
113th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To impose sanctions with respect to the Russian Federation, to provide 
 additional assistance to Ukraine, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 
                       18, 2014 -  [H.R. 5859]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Ukraine Freedom 
Support Act of 2014.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) <<NOTE: 22 USC 8921 note.>>  Short Title.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy regarding Ukraine.
Sec. 4. Sanctions relating to the defense and energy sectors of the 
           Russian Federation.
Sec. 5. Sanctions on Russian and other foreign financial institutions.
Sec. 6. Increased military assistance for the Government of Ukraine.
Sec. 7. Expanded nonmilitary assistance for Ukraine.
Sec. 8. Expanded broadcasting in countries of the former Soviet Union.
Sec. 9. Support for Russian democracy and civil society organizations.
Sec. 10. Report on non-compliance by the Russian Federation of its 
           obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 11. Rule of construction.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8921.>>  DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through 
        account.--The terms ``account'', ``correspondent account'', and 
        ``payable-through account'' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Defense article; defense service; training.--The terms 
        ``defense article'', ``defense service'', and ``training'' have 
        the meanings given those terms in section 47 of the Arms Export 
        Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2794).
            (4) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means a financial institution specified in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), 
        (M), or (Y) of section 5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States 
        Code.

[[Page 128 STAT. 2953]]

            (5) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign 
        financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 561.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
        corresponding similar regulation or ruling).
            (6) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means any 
        individual or entity that is not a United States citizen, a 
        permanent resident alien, or an entity organized under the laws 
        of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United 
        States.
            (7) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
        conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
        actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
        circumstance, or the result.
            (8) Russian person.--The term ``Russian person'' means--
                    (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of 
                the Russian Federation; or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                Russian Federation.
            (9) Special russian crude oil project.--The term ``special 
        Russian crude oil project'' means a project intended to extract 
        crude oil from--
                    (A) the exclusive economic zone of the Russian 
                Federation in waters more than 500 feet deep;
                    (B) Russian Arctic offshore locations; or
                    (C) shale formations located in the Russian 
                Federation.
SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8922.>>  STATEMENT OF POLICY REGARDING 
                    UKRAINE.

    It is the policy of the United States to further assist the 
Government of Ukraine in restoring its sovereignty and territorial 
integrity to deter the Government of the Russian Federation from further 
destabilizing and invading Ukraine and other independent countries in 
Central and Eastern Europe, the Caucasus, and Central Asia. That policy 
shall be carried into effect, among other things, through a 
comprehensive effort, in coordination with allies and partners of the 
United States where appropriate, that includes economic sanctions, 
diplomacy, assistance for the people of Ukraine, and the provision of 
military capabilities to the Government of Ukraine that will enhance the 
ability of that Government to defend itself and to restore its 
sovereignty and territorial integrity in the face of unlawful actions by 
the Government of the Russian Federation.
SEC. 4. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 8923.>>  SANCTIONS RELATING TO 
                    THE DEFENSE AND ENERGY SECTORS OF THE RUSSIAN 
                    FEDERATION.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  Sanctions Relating to the Defense 
Sector.--
            (1) Rosoboronexport.--Except as provided in subsection (d), 
        not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, the President shall impose 3 or more of the sanctions 
        described in subsection (c) with respect to Rosoboronexport.
            (2) Russian producers, transferors, or brokers of defense 
        articles. <<NOTE: Determination.>> --Except as provided in 
        subsection (d), on and after the date that is 45 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose 3 
        or more of the sanctions described in subsection (c) with 
        respect to a foreign person the President determines--
                    (A) is an entity--

[[Page 128 STAT. 2954]]

                          (i) owned or controlled by the Government of 
                      the Russian Federation or owned or controlled by 
                      nationals of the Russian Federation; and
                          (ii) that--
                                    (I) knowingly manufactures or sells 
                                defense articles transferred into Syria 
                                or into the territory of a specified 
                                country without the consent of the 
                                internationally recognized government of 
                                that country;
                                    (II) transfers defense articles into 
                                Syria or into the territory of a 
                                specified country without the consent of 
                                the internationally recognized 
                                government of that country; or
                                    (III) brokers or otherwise assists 
                                in the transfer of defense articles into 
                                Syria or into the territory of a 
                                specified country without the consent of 
                                the internationally recognized 
                                government of that country; or
                    (B) knowingly, on or after the date of the enactment 
                of this Act, assists, sponsors, or provides financial, 
                material, or technological support for, or goods or 
                services to or in support of, an entity described in 
                subparagraph (A) with respect to an activity described 
                in clause (ii) of that subparagraph.
            (3) Specified country defined.--
                    (A) In general.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``specified country'' means--
                          (i) Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova; and
                          (ii) any other country designated by the 
                      President as a country of significant concern for 
                      purposes of this subsection, such as Poland, 
                      Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, and the Central Asia 
                      republics.
                    (B) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Notice to congress.--The 
                President shall notify the appropriate congressional 
                committees in writing not later than 15 days before--
                          (i) designating a country as a country of 
                      significant concern under subparagraph (A)(ii); or
                          (ii) terminating a designation under that 
                      subparagraph, including the termination of any 
                      such designation pursuant to subsection (h).

    (b) <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  Sanctions Related to the Energy Sector.--
            (1) Development of special russian crude oil projects.--
        Except as provided in subsection (d), on and after the date that 
        is 45 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        President may impose 3 or more of the sanctions described in 
        subsection (c) with respect to a foreign person if the President 
        determines that the foreign person knowingly makes a significant 
        investment in a special Russian crude oil project.
            (2) Authorization for extension of licensing limitations on 
        certain equipment.--The President, through the Bureau of 
        Industry and Security of the Department of Commerce or the 
        Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the 
        Treasury, as appropriate, may impose additional licensing 
        requirements for or other restrictions on the export or reexport 
        of items for use in the energy sector of the Russian Federation, 
        including equipment used for tertiary oil recovery.

[[Page 128 STAT. 2955]]

            (3) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  Contingent sanction relating 
        to gazprom.--If the President determines that Gazprom is 
        withholding significant natural gas supplies from member 
        countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or further 
        withholds significant natural gas supplies from countries such 
        as Ukraine, Georgia, or Moldova, the President shall, not later 
        than 45 days after making that determination, impose the 
        sanction described in subsection (c)(7) and at least one 
        additional sanction described in subsection (c) with respect to 
        Gazprom.

    (c) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions the President may impose 
with respect to a foreign person under subsection (a) or (b) are the 
following:
            (1) Export-import bank assistance.--The President may direct 
        the Export-Import Bank of the United States not to approve the 
        issuance of any guarantee, insurance, extension of credit, or 
        participation in the extension of credit in connection with the 
        export of any goods or services to the foreign person.
            (2) Procurement sanction.--The President may prohibit the 
        head of any executive agency (as defined in section 133 of title 
        41, United States Code) from entering into any contract for the 
        procurement of any goods or services from the foreign person.
            (3) Arms export prohibition.--The President may prohibit the 
        exportation or provision by sale, lease or loan, grant, or other 
        means, directly or indirectly, of any defense article or defense 
        service to the foreign person and the issuance of any license or 
        other approval to the foreign person under section 38 of the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778).
            (4) Dual-use export prohibition.--The President may prohibit 
        the issuance of any license and suspend any license for the 
        transfer to the foreign person of any item the export of which 
        is controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
        U.S.C. App. 2401 et seq.) (as in effect pursuant to the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.)) or the Export Administration Regulations under subchapter 
        C of chapter VII of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (5) Property transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        person from--
                    (A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using, 
                transferring, withdrawing, transporting, or exporting 
                any property that is subject to the jurisdiction of the 
                United States and with respect to which the foreign 
                person has any interest;
                    (B) dealing in or exercising any right, power, or 
                privilege with respect to such property; or
                    (C) conducting any transaction involving such 
                property.
            (6) Banking transactions.--The President may, pursuant to 
        such regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any 
        transfers of credit or payments between financial institutions 
        or by, through, or to any financial institution, to the extent 
        that such transfers or payments are subject to the jurisdiction 
        of the United States and involve any interest of the foreign 
        person.
            (7) Prohibition on investment in equity or debt of 
        sanctioned person.--The President may, pursuant to such 
        regulations as the President may prescribe, prohibit any United

[[Page 128 STAT. 2956]]

        States person from transacting in, providing financing for, or 
        otherwise dealing in--
                    (A) debt--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Time periods.>>  of longer than 30 
                      days' maturity of a foreign person with respect to 
                      which sanctions are imposed under subsection (a) 
                      or of longer than 90 days' maturity of a foreign 
                      person with respect to which sanctions are imposed 
                      under subsection (b); and
                          (ii) issued on or after the date on which such 
                      sanctions are imposed with respect to the foreign 
                      person; or
                    (B) equity of the foreign person issued on or after 
                that date.
            (8) Exclusion from the united states and revocation of visa 
        or other documentation.--In the case of a foreign person who is 
        an individual, the President may direct the Secretary of State 
        to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security to 
        exclude from the United States, the foreign person, subject to 
        regulatory exceptions to permit the United States to comply with 
        the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, 
        signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force 
        November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
        States, or other applicable international obligations.
            (9) Sanctions on principal executive officers.--In the case 
        of a foreign person that is an entity, the President may impose 
        on the principal executive officer or officers of the foreign 
        person, or on individuals performing similar functions and with 
        similar authorities as such officer or officers, any of the 
        sanctions described in this subsection applicable to 
        individuals.

    (d) Exceptions.--
            (1) Importation of goods.--
                    (A) In general.--The authority to block and prohibit 
                all transactions in all property and interests in 
                property under subsection (c)(5) shall not include the 
                authority to impose sanctions on the importation of 
                goods.
                    (B) Good defined.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``good'' has the meaning given that term in section 16 
                of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 
                2415) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701 et seq.)).
            (2) Additional exceptions.--The President shall not be 
        required to apply or maintain the sanctions under subsection (a) 
        or (b)--
                    (A) in the case of procurement of defense articles 
                or defense services under existing contracts, 
                subcontracts, or other business agreements, including 
                ancillary or incidental contracts for goods, or for 
                services or funding (including necessary financial 
                services) associated with such goods, as necessary to 
                give effect to such contracts, subcontracts, or other 
                business agreements, and the exercise of options for 
                production quantities to satisfy requirements essential 
                to the national security of the United States--
                          (i) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  if the President 
                      determines in writing that--
                                    (I) the foreign person to which the 
                                sanctions would otherwise be applied is 
                                a sole source supplier of the defense 
                                articles or services;

[[Page 128 STAT. 2957]]

                                    (II) the defense articles or 
                                services are essential;
                                    (III) alternative sources are not 
                                readily or reasonably available; and
                                    (IV) the national interests of the 
                                United States would be adversely 
                                affected by the application or 
                                maintenance of such sanctions; or
                          (ii) if the President determines in writing 
                      that--
                                    (I) such articles or services are 
                                essential to the national security under 
                                defense coproduction agreements; and
                                    (II) the national interests of the 
                                United States would be adversely 
                                affected by the application or 
                                maintenance of such sanctions;
                    (B) in the case of procurement, to eligible 
                products, as defined in section 308(4) of the Trade 
                Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2518(4)), of any 
                foreign country or instrumentality designated under 
                section 301(b)(1) of that Act (19 U.S.C. 2511(b)(1));
                    (C) to products, technology, or services provided 
                under contracts, subcontracts, or other business 
                agreements (including ancillary or incidental contracts 
                for goods, or for services or funding (including 
                necessary financial services) associated with such 
                goods, as necessary to give effect to such contracts, 
                subcontracts, or other business agreements) entered into 
                before the date on which the President publishes in the 
                Federal Register the name of the foreign person with 
                respect to which the sanctions are to be imposed;
                    (D) to--
                          (i) spare parts that are essential to United 
                      States products or production;
                          (ii) component parts, but not finished 
                      products, essential to United States products or 
                      production; or
                          (iii) routine servicing and maintenance of 
                      United States products, to the extent that 
                      alternative sources are not readily or reasonably 
                      available;
                    (E) to information and technology essential to 
                United States products or production; or
                    (F) to food, medicine, medical devices, or 
                agricultural commodities (as those terms are defined in 
                section 101 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
                Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
                8511)).

    (e) National Security Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
        sanctions under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a foreign 
        person if the President--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determines that the 
                waiver is in the national security interest of the 
                United States; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  submits to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a report on the determination 
                and the reasons for the determination.
            (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1)(B) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

    (f) Transaction-specific National Security Waiver.--

[[Page 128 STAT. 2958]]

            (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
        sanctions under subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a specific 
        transaction if the President--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determines that the 
                transaction is in the national security interest of the 
                United States; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  submits to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a detailed report on the 
                determination and the specific reasons for the 
                determination that a waiver with respect to the 
                transaction is necessary and appropriate.
            (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1)(B) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

    (g) Implementation; Penalties.--
            (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out the purposes of this section.
            (2) <<NOTE: Applicability.>>  Penalties.--The penalties 
        provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) 
        shall apply to a person that violates, attempts to violate, or 
        conspires to violate, or causes a violation of, subsection (a) 
        or (b) of this section, or an order or regulation prescribed 
        under either such subsection, to the same extent that such 
        penalties apply to a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in section 206(a) of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act.

    (h) Termination.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  In general.--Except as 
        provided in paragraph (2), this section, and sanctions imposed 
        under this section, shall terminate on the date on which the 
        President submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        certification that the Government of the Russian Federation has 
        ceased ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, 
        supporting, or financing, significant acts intended to undermine 
        the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine, including through an agreement between the 
        appropriate parties.
            (2) Applicability with respect to syria.--The termination 
        date under paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to the 
        provisions of subsection (a) relating to the transfer of defense 
        articles into Syria or sanctions imposed pursuant to such 
        provisions.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: President. 22 USC 8924.>>  SANCTIONS ON RUSSIAN 
                    AND OTHER FOREIGN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Facilitation of Certain Defense- and Energy-Related 
Transactions.--The President may impose the sanction described in 
subsection (c) with respect to a foreign financial institution that the 
President determines knowingly engages, on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, in significant transactions involving activities 
described in subparagraph (A)(ii) or (B) of section 4(a)(2) or paragraph 
(1) or (3) of section 4(b) for persons with respect to which sanctions 
are imposed under section 4.
    (b) Facilitation of Financial Transactions on Behalf of Specially 
Designated Nationals. <<NOTE: Determination. Deadline.>> --The President 
may impose the sanction described in subsection (c) with respect to a 
foreign financial institution if the President determines that the 
foreign financial institution has, on or after the date that is 180 days

[[Page 128 STAT. 2959]]

after the date of the enactment of this Act, knowingly facilitated a 
significant financial transaction on behalf of any Russian person 
included on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked 
persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the 
Department of the Treasury, pursuant to--
            (1) this Act;
            (2) Executive Order No. 13660 (79 Fed. Reg. 13,493), 13661 
        (79 Fed. Reg. 15,535), or 13662 (79 Fed. Reg. 16,169); or
            (3) any other Executive order addressing the crisis in 
        Ukraine.

    (c) Sanction Described.--The sanction described in this subsection 
is, with respect to a foreign financial institution, a prohibition on 
the opening, and a prohibition or the imposition of strict conditions on 
the maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a 
payable-through account by the foreign financial institution.
    (d) National Security Waiver.--The President may waive the 
application of sanctions under this section with respect to a foreign 
financial institution if the President--
            (1) <<NOTE: Determination.>>  determines that the waiver is 
        in the national security interest of the United States; and
            (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the determination and the reasons for the 
        determination.

    (e) Implementation; Penalties.--
            (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out the purposes of this section.
            (2) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections 
        (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person 
        that violates, attempts to violate, or conspires to violate, or 
        causes a violation of, subsection (a) or (b) of this section, or 
        an order or regulation prescribed under either such subsection, 
        to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person that 
        commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act.

    (f) <<NOTE: Certification.>>  Termination.--This section, and 
sanctions imposed under this section, shall terminate on the date on 
which the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
the certification described in section 4(h).
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8925.>>  INCREASED MILITARY ASSISTANCE FOR 
                    THE GOVERNMENT OF UKRAINE.

    (a) <<NOTE: President.>>  In General.--The President is authorized 
to provide defense articles, defense services, and training to the 
Government of Ukraine for the purpose of countering offensive weapons 
and reestablishing the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, 
including anti-tank and anti-armor weapons, crew weapons and ammunition, 
counter-artillery radars to identify and target artillery batteries, 
fire control, range finder, and optical and guidance and control 
equipment, tactical troop-operated surveillance drones, and secure 
command and communications equipment, pursuant to the provisions of the 
Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), the Foreign Assistance 
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), and other relevant provisions of 
law.

[[Page 128 STAT. 2960]]

    (b) <<NOTE: President.>>  Report Required.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit 
a report detailing the anticipated defense articles, defense services, 
and training to be provided pursuant to this section and a timeline for 
the provision of such defense articles, defense services, and training, 
to--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
        of Representatives.

    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary of State $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2015, 
        $125,000,000 for fiscal year 2016, and $125,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2017 to carry out activities under this section.
            (2) Availability of amounts.--Amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain available 
        for obligation and expenditure through the end of fiscal year 
        2018.

    (d) Authority for the Use of Funds.--The funds made available 
pursuant to subsection (c) for provision of defense articles, defense 
services, and training may be used to procure such articles, services, 
and training from the United States Government or other appropriate 
sources.
    (e) Protection of Civilians.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Government of Ukraine should take all appropriate steps to protect 
civilians.
SEC. 7. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8926.>>  EXPANDED NONMILITARY ASSISTANCE 
                    FOR UKRAINE.

    (a) Assistance to Internally Displaced People in Ukraine.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Deadline. Plans.>>  In general.--Not later than 
        30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of State shall submit a plan, including actions by the 
        United States Government, other governments, and international 
        organizations, to meet the need for protection of and assistance 
        for internally displaced persons in Ukraine, to--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy 
                and Natural Resources of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and 
                Commerce of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) should 
        include, as appropriate, activities in support of--
                    (A) helping to establish a functional and adequately 
                resourced central registration system in Ukraine that 
                can ensure coordination of efforts to provide assistance 
                to internally displaced persons in different regions;
                    (B) encouraging adoption of legislation in Ukraine 
                that protects internally displaced persons from 
                discrimination based on their status and provides 
                simplified procedures for obtaining the new residency 
                registration or other official documentation that is a 
                prerequisite to receiving appropriate social payments 
                under the laws of Ukraine, such

[[Page 128 STAT. 2961]]

                as pensions and disability, child, and unemployment 
                benefits; and
                    (C) helping to ensure that information is available 
                to internally displaced persons about--
                          (i) government agencies and independent groups 
                      that can provide assistance to such persons in 
                      various regions; and
                          (ii) evacuation assistance available to 
                      persons seeking to flee armed conflict areas.
            (3) <<NOTE: President.>>  Assistance through international 
        organizations.--The President shall instruct the United States 
        permanent representative or executive director, as the case may 
        be, to the relevant United Nations voluntary agencies, including 
        the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the United 
        Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, and 
        other appropriate international organizations, to use the voice 
        and vote of the United States to support appropriate assistance 
        for internally displaced persons in Ukraine.

    (b) Assistance to the Defense Sector of Ukraine.--The Secretary of 
State and the Secretary of Defense should assist entities in the defense 
sector of Ukraine to reorient exports away from customers in the Russian 
Federation and to find appropriate alternative markets for those 
entities in the defense sector of Ukraine that have already 
significantly reduced exports to and cooperation with entities in the 
defense sector of the Russian Federation.
    (c) Assistance To Address the Energy Crisis in Ukraine.--
            (1) Emergency energy assistance.--
                    (A) Plan required.--The Secretary of State and the 
                Secretary of Energy, in collaboration with the 
                Administrator of the United States Agency for 
                International Development and the Administrator of the 
                Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall work with 
                officials of the Government of Ukraine to develop a 
                short-term emergency energy assistance plan designed to 
                help Ukraine address the potentially severe short-term 
                heating fuel and electricity shortages facing Ukraine in 
                2014 and 2015.
                    (B) Elements.--The plan required by subparagraph (A) 
                should include strategies to address heating fuel and 
                electricity shortages in Ukraine, including, as 
                appropriate--
                          (i) the acquisition of short-term, emergency 
                      fuel supplies;
                          (ii) the repair or replacement of 
                      infrastructure that could impede the transmission 
                      of electricity or transportation of fuel;
                          (iii) the prioritization of the transportation 
                      of fuel supplies to the areas where such supplies 
                      are needed most;
                          (iv) streamlining emergency communications 
                      throughout national, regional, and local 
                      governments to manage the potential energy crisis 
                      resulting from heating fuel and electricity 
                      shortages;
                          (v) forming a crisis management team within 
                      the Government of Ukraine to specifically address 
                      the potential crisis, including ensuring 
                      coordination of the team's efforts with the 
                      efforts of outside governmental

[[Page 128 STAT. 2962]]

                      and nongovernmental entities providing assistance 
                      to address the potential crisis; and
                          (vi) developing a public outreach strategy to 
                      facilitate preparation by the population and 
                      communication with the population in the event of 
                      a crisis.
                    (C) Assistance.--The Secretary of State, the 
                Secretary of Energy, and the Administrator of the United 
                States Agency for International Development are 
                authorized to provide assistance in support of, and to 
                invest in short-term solutions for, enabling Ukraine to 
                secure the energy safety of the people of Ukraine during 
                2014 and 2015, including through--
                          (i) procurement and transport of emergency 
                      fuel supplies, including reverse pipeline flows 
                      from Europe;
                          (ii) provision of technical assistance for 
                      crisis planning, crisis response, and public 
                      outreach;
                          (iii) repair of infrastructure to enable the 
                      transport of fuel supplies;
                          (iv) repair of power generating or power 
                      transmission equipment or facilities;
                          (v) procurement and installation of 
                      compressors or other appropriate equipment to 
                      enhance short-term natural gas production;
                          (vi) procurement of mobile electricity 
                      generation units;
                          (vii) conversion of natural gas heating 
                      facilities to run on other fuels, including 
                      alternative energy sources; and
                          (viii) provision of emergency weatherization 
                      and winterization materials and supplies.
            (2) Reduction of ukraine's reliance on energy imports.--
                    (A) Plans required.--The Secretary of State, in 
                collaboration with the Secretary of Energy and the 
                Administrator of the United States Agency for 
                International Development, shall work with officials of 
                the Government of Ukraine to develop medium- and long-
                term plans to increase energy production and efficiency 
                to increase energy security by helping Ukraine reduce 
                its dependence on natural gas imported from the Russian 
                Federation.
                    (B) Elements.--The medium- and long-term plans 
                required by subparagraph (A) should include strategies, 
                as appropriate, to--
                          (i) improve corporate governance and 
                      unbundling of state-owned oil and gas sector 
                      firms;
                          (ii) increase production from natural gas 
                      fields and from other sources, including renewable 
                      energy;
                          (iii) license new oil and gas blocks 
                      transparently and competitively;
                          (iv) modernize oil and gas upstream 
                      infrastructure; and
                          (v) improve energy efficiency.
                    (C) Prioritization. <<NOTE: Time period.>> --The 
                Secretary of State, the Administrator of the United 
                States Agency for International Development, and the 
                Secretary of Energy should, during fiscal years 2015 
                through 2018, work with other

[[Page 128 STAT. 2963]]

                donors, including multilateral agencies and 
                nongovernmental organizations, to prioritize, to the 
                extent practicable and as appropriate, the provision of 
                assistance from such donors to help Ukraine to improve 
                energy efficiency, increase energy supplies produced in 
                Ukraine, and reduce reliance on energy imports from the 
                Russian Federation, including natural gas.
                    (D) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
                authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 in the 
                aggregate for fiscal years 2016 through 2018 to carry 
                out activities under this paragraph.
            (3) Support from the overseas private investment 
        corporation.--The Overseas Private Investment Corporation 
        shall--
                    (A) prioritize, to the extent practicable, support 
                for investments to help increase energy efficiency, 
                develop domestic oil and natural gas reserves, improve 
                and repair electricity infrastructure, and develop 
                renewable and other sources of energy in Ukraine; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Procedures.>>  implement procedures for 
                expedited review and, as appropriate, approval, of 
                applications by eligible investors (as defined in 
                section 238 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
                U.S.C. 2198)) for loans, loan guarantees, and insurance 
                for such investments.
            (4) Support by the world bank group and the european bank 
        for reconstruction and development. <<NOTE: President.>> --The 
        President shall, to the extent practicable and as appropriate, 
        direct the United States Executive Directors of the World Bank 
        Group and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
        to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to 
        encourage the World Bank Group and the European Bank for 
        Reconstruction and Development and other international financial 
        institutions--
                    (A) to invest in, and increase their efforts to 
                promote investment in, projects to improve energy 
                efficiency, improve and repair electricity 
                infrastructure, develop domestic oil and natural gas 
                reserves, and develop renewable and other sources of 
                energy in Ukraine; and
                    (B) to stimulate private investment in such 
                projects.

    (d) Assistance to Civil Society in Ukraine.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State and the 
        Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
        Development shall, directly or through nongovernmental or 
        international organizations, such as the Organization for 
        Security and Co-operation in Europe, the National Endowment for 
        Democracy, and related organizations--
                    (A) strengthen the organizational and operational 
                capacity of democratic civil society in Ukraine;
                    (B) support the efforts of independent media outlets 
                to broadcast, distribute, and share information in all 
                regions of Ukraine;
                    (C) counter corruption and improve transparency and 
                accountability of institutions that are part of the 
                Government of Ukraine; and
                    (D) provide support for democratic organizing and 
                election monitoring in Ukraine.

[[Page 128 STAT. 2964]]

            (2) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>>  Strategy required.--Not 
        later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the President shall submit a strategy to carry out the 
        activities described in paragraph (1) to--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the 
                Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary of State $20,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2016 to carry out this subsection.
            (4) Transparency requirements.--Any assistance provided 
        pursuant to this subsection shall be conducted in as transparent 
        of a manner as possible, consistent with the nature and goals of 
        this subsection. <<NOTE: President. Briefing.>>  The President 
        shall provide a briefing on the activities funded by this 
        subsection at the request of the committees specified in 
        paragraph (2).
SEC. 8. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8927.>>  EXPANDED BROADCASTING IN COUNTRIES 
                    OF THE FORMER SOVIET UNION.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Plan. Cost estimate. Time period.>>  In 
General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Chairman of the Broadcasting Board of Governors shall submit to 
Congress a plan, including a cost estimate, for immediately and 
substantially increasing, and maintaining through fiscal year 2017, the 
quantity of Russian-language broadcasting into the countries of the 
former Soviet Union funded by the United States in order to counter 
Russian Federation propaganda.

    (b) Prioritization of Broadcasting Into Ukraine, Georgia, and 
Moldova.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall prioritize 
broadcasting into Ukraine, Georgia, and Moldova by the Voice of America 
and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty.
    (c) Additional Priorities.--In developing the plan required by 
subsection (a), the Chairman shall consider--
            (1) near-term increases in Russian-language broadcasting for 
        countries of the former Soviet Union (other than the countries 
        specified in subsection (b)), including Latvia, Lithuania, and 
        Estonia; and
            (2) increases in broadcasting in other critical languages, 
        including Ukrainian and Romanian languages.

    (d) Broadcasting Defined.--In this section, the term 
``broadcasting'' means the distribution of media content via radio 
broadcasting, television broadcasting, and Internet-based platforms, 
among other platforms.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Broadcasting Board of Governors $10,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2016 through 2018 to carry out activities under 
        this section.
            (2) Supplement not supplant.--Amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall supplement and not 
        supplant other amounts made available for activities described 
        in this section.
SEC. 9. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8928.>>  SUPPORT FOR RUSSIAN DEMOCRACY AND 
                    CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall, directly or through 
nongovernmental or international organizations, such as

[[Page 128 STAT. 2965]]

the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, the National 
Endowment for Democracy, and related organizations--
            (1) improve democratic governance, transparency, 
        accountability, rule of law, and anti-corruption efforts in the 
        Russian Federation;
            (2) strengthen democratic institutions and political and 
        civil society organizations in the Russian Federation;
            (3) expand uncensored Internet access in the Russian 
        Federation; and
            (4) expand free and unfettered access to independent media 
        of all kinds in the Russian Federation, including through 
        increasing United States Government-supported broadcasting 
        activities, and assist with the protection of journalists and 
        civil society activists who have been targeted for free speech 
        activities.

    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of State $20,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2018 to carry out the activities set forth in 
subsection (a).
    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline. President.>>  Strategy Requirement.--Not later 
than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President 
shall submit a strategy to carry out the activities set forth in 
subsection (a) to--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

    (d) Transparency Requirements.--Any assistance provided pursuant to 
this section shall be conducted in as transparent of a manner as 
possible, consistent with the nature and goals of this 
section. <<NOTE: President. Briefing.>>  The President shall provide a 
briefing on the activities funded by this section at the request of the 
committees specified in subsection (c).
SEC. 10. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8929.>>  REPORT ON NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE 
                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION OF ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER 
                      THE INF TREATY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Russian Federation is in violation of its 
        obligations under the Treaty between the United States of 
        America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the 
        Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
        Missiles, signed at Washington December 8, 1987, and entered 
        into force June 1, 1988 (commonly referred to as the 
        ``Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty'' or ``INF Treaty'').
            (2) This behavior poses a threat to the United States, its 
        deployed forces, and its allies.

    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the President should hold the Russian Federation 
        accountable for being in violation of its obligations under the 
        INF Treaty; and
            (2) the President should demand the Russian Federation 
        completely and verifiably eliminate the military systems that 
        constitute the violation of its obligations under the INF 
        Treaty.

    (c) Report.--
            (1) <<NOTE: President.>>  In general.--Not later than 90 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 90 
        days thereafter, the President shall submit to the committees 
        specified in subsection (d) a report that includes the following 
        elements:

[[Page 128 STAT. 2966]]

                    (A) A description of the status of the President's 
                efforts, in cooperation with United States allies, to 
                hold the Russian Federation accountable for being in 
                violation of its obligations under the INF Treaty and 
                obtain the complete and verifiable elimination of its 
                military systems that constitute the violation of its 
                obligations under the INF Treaty.
                    (B) <<NOTE: Assessment.>>  The President's 
                assessment as to whether it remains in the national 
                security interests of the United States to remain a 
                party to the INF Treaty, and other related treaties and 
                agreements, while the Russian Federation is in violation 
                of its obligations under the INF Treaty.
                    (C) Notification of any deployment by the Russian 
                Federation of a ground launched ballistic or cruise 
                missile system with a range of between 500 and 5,500 
                kilometers.
                    (D) <<NOTE: Plans. Consultation.>>  A plan developed 
                by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
                Director of National Intelligence and the Defense Threat 
                Reduction Agency (DTRA), to verify that the Russian 
                Federation has fully and completely dismantled any 
                ground launched cruise missiles or ballistic missiles 
                with a range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers, 
                including details on facilities that inspectors need 
                access to, people inspectors need to talk with, how 
                often inspectors need the accesses for, and how much the 
                verification regime would cost.
            (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.

    (d) Committees Specified.--The committees specified in this 
subsection are--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
        Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the House of Representatives.
SEC. 11. <<NOTE: 22 USC 8930.>>  RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.

    Nothing in this Act or an amendment made by this Act shall be 
construed as an authorization for the use of military force.

    Approved December 18, 2014.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5859:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 160 (2014):
            Dec. 11, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 13, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>