 
--H.J.Res.222--
H.J.Res.222
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
Joint Resolution
To provide for a settlement of the railroad labor-management disputes between
certain railroads represented by the National Carriers' Conference Committee
of the National Railway Labor Conference and certain of their employees.
Whereas the labor disputes between certain railroads represented by the
National Carriers' Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor
Conference and certain of their employees represented by certain labor
organizations threaten essential transportation services of the United States;
Whereas it is essential to the national interest, including the national
health and defense, that essential transportation services be maintained;
Whereas the President, pursuant to the provisions of section 10 of the
Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 160), by Executive Order No. 12714 of May 3,
1990, created Presidential Emergency Board No. 219 to investigate the disputes
and report findings;
Whereas the recommendations of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219 issued
on January 15, 1991, have formed the basis for tentative agreements between
some, but not all, of the parties to the disputes;
Whereas the recommendations of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219 issued
on January 15, 1991, have not resulted in a settlement of all the disputes;
Whereas all the procedures provided under the Railway Labor Act, and further
procedures agreed to by the parties, have been exhausted and have not resulted
in settlement of all the disputes;
Whereas it is desirable to resolve such disputes in a manner which encourages
solutions reached through collective bargaining;
Whereas Congress, under the Commerce Clause of the Constitution, has the
authority and responsibility to ensure the uninterrupted operation of
essential transportation services;
Whereas the Congress finds that emergency measures are essential to national
security and continuity of transportation services by such railroads; and
Whereas Congress has in the past enacted legislation for such purposes: Now,
therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONDITIONS DURING RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES.
 The following conditions shall apply to the disputes referred to in Executive
 Order No. 12714 of May 3, 1990, between certain railroads represented by
 the National Carriers' Conference Committee of the National Railway Labor
 Conference and the employees of such railroads represented by the labor
 organizations which are party to such disputes:
 (1) The parties to such disputes shall take all necessary steps to restore or
 preserve the conditions out of which such disputes arose as such conditions
 existed before 12:01 a.m. on April 17, 1991, except as otherwise provided
 in this joint resolution.
 (2) The final paragraph of section 10 of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 160)
 shall apply and be extended for an additional period with respect to the
 disputes referred to in Executive Order No. 12714 of May 3, 1990, so that
 no change shall be made before the expiration of the period described in
 section 3(e) of this joint resolution by such parties, in the conditions
 out of which such dispute arose as such conditions existed before 12:01
 a.m. on April 17, 1991.
 (3) Except as provided in sections 3 and 4 of this joint resolution, the
 report and recommendations of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219 shall
 be binding on the parties upon the expiration of the period described in
 section 3(e) of this joint resolution, and shall have the same effect as
 though arrived at by agreement of the parties under the Railway Labor Act
 (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
SEC. 2. APPOINTMENT OF SPECIAL BOARD.
 The President shall promptly appoint a 3-member Special Board. One member of
 the Special Board shall be an individual who was a member of Presidential
 Emergency Board No. 219. The remaining 2 members shall be appointed by the
 President from a list of arbitrators compiled by the National Mediation
 Board. No member appointed to such Special Board shall be pecuniarily or
 otherwise interested in any organization of employees or any railroad. The
 compensation of the members of the Special Board shall be fixed by the
 National Mediation Board. The second paragraph of section 10 of the Railway
 Labor Act shall apply to the expenses of the Special Board appointed under
 this subsection as if such Special Board were a board created under such
 section 10.
SEC. 3. RESOLUTION OF ISSUES IN DISAGREEMENT.
 (a) REQUESTS FOR CLARIFICATION OR INTERPRETATION OF AMBIGUITIES- Within
 5 days after the Special Board is appointed under section 2, any party
 to the disputes referred to in Executive Order No. 12714 of May 3, 1990,
 may request the Special Board to clarify or interpret any ambiguities in
 the recommendations of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219.
 (b) CLARIFICATION AND INTERPRETATION REPORT- Within 15 days after the Special
 Board is appointed under section 2, the Special Board shall issue a report
 addressing requests made under subsection (a).
 (c) REQUESTS FOR MODIFICATION- Within 10 days after the Special Board issues
 its report under subsection (b), any party to the disputes referred to in
 Executive Order No. 12714 of May 3, 1990, may request the Special Board to
 modify any specific recommendation of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219
 with respect to any issue on which the parties remain in disagreement. Issues
 on which Presidential Emergency Board No. 219 made no specific recommendation
 shall not be subject to consideration by the Special Board.
 (d) PROCEDURE AND DETERMINATION- The Special Board shall conduct such
 proceedings as it considers necessary to review requests made under subsection
 (c). In making a determination under this subsection, the Special Board
 shall accord a presumption of validity to the recommendations of Presidential
 Emergency Board No. 219. The party requesting a modification of a particular
 Presidential Emergency Board recommendation shall bear the burden of
 persuasion with respect to the modification of such recommendation. In
 order to overcome such presumption of validity, the party requesting a
 modification must show that the Presidential Emergency Board recommendation
 is demonstrably inequitable or was based on a material error or material
 misunderstanding. No later than 30 days after the 10-day period described
 in subsection (c), the Special Board shall complete its review and issue a
 final determination on all requests made under subsection (c), modifying in
 whole or in part the recommendation of Presidential Emergency Board No. 219
 as to which the request was made, or denying such request.
 (e) EFFECT OF DETERMINATION- Upon the expiration of 10 days after the
 issuance of the determination of the Special Board under subsection (d),
 such determination shall be binding on the parties and shall have the same
 effect as though arrived at by agreement of the parties under the Railway
 Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
 (f) CLARIFICATION OF DETERMINATION- In the event of disagreement as to
 the meaning of any part or all of the determination by the Special Board
 under subsection (d), or as to the terms of the detailed agreements or
 arrangements necessary to give effect thereto, any party may, by December 31,
 1991, apply to the Special Board for clarification of its determination,
 whereupon the Special Board shall reconvene and shall promptly issue a
 further determination with respect to the matters raised by any application
 for clarification. Such further determination may, in the discretion of
 the Special Board, be made with or without a further hearing.
 (g) PRECLUSION OF JUDICIAL REVIEW- There shall be no judicial review of
 any report or determination of the Special Board under this section.
SEC. 4. MUTUAL AGREEMENTS PRESERVED.
 Nothing in this joint resolution shall prevent a mutual written agreement
 to any terms and conditions different from those established by this joint
 resolution.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.