 
--H.J.Res.332--
H.J.Res.332
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
Joint Resolution
Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1992, and for other
purposes.
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are hereby
 appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
 and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for
 the several departments, agencies, corporations, and other organizational
 units of Government for the fiscal year 1992, and for other purposes, namely:
 SEC. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority and
 conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year
 1991 for continuing projects or activities including the costs of direct
 loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically provided for in this
 joint resolution) which were conducted in the fiscal year 1991 and for
 which appropriations, funds, or other authority would be available in the
 following appropriations Acts:
 The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and
 Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992;
 The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
 Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992, notwithstanding section 15 of the State
 Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, section 201 of Public Law 99-64
 and section 701 of the United States Information and Educational Exchange
 Act of 1948;
 The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1992, notwithstanding section
 504(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947;
 The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1992;
 The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1992, notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15(a)
 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956;
 The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992;
 The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and
 Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992;
 The Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1992;
 The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
 1992;
 The Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act,
 1992; and
 The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development,
 and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992:
Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the
authority which would be granted in these Acts is greater than that which
would be available or granted under current operations, the pertinent project
or activity shall be continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the
current rate.
 (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the authority
 which would be granted under an Act listed in this section as passed by
 the House as of October 1, 1991, is different from that which would be
 available or granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as of October
 1, 1991, the pertinent project or activity shall be continued at a rate
 for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted by
 the action of the House or the Senate, whichever is lower, and under the
 authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for
 the fiscal year 1991: Provided, That where an item is included in only
 one version of an Act as passed by both Houses as of October 1, 1991, the
 pertinent project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation,
 fund, or authority granted by the one House, but at a rate for operations not
 exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted by the action of the one
 House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and conditions provided
 in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1991.
 (c) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only the
 House as of October 1, 1991, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the House,
 at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted
 by the action of the House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and
 conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year
 1991: Provided, That where an item is funded in applicable appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year 1991 and not included in the version passed by
 the House as of October 1, 1991, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by applicable
 appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1991, at a rate for operations not
 exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions provided
 in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1991.
 SEC. 102. No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted
 pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used for new
 production of items not funded for production in fiscal year 1991 or prior
 years, for the increase in production rates above those sustained with
 fiscal year 1991 funds, or to initiate, resume, or continue any project,
 activity, operation, or organization which are defined as any project,
 subproject, activity, budget activity, program element, and subprogram
 within a program element and for investment items are further defined as a
 P-1 line item in a budget activity within an appropriation account and an R-1
 line item which includes a program element and subprogram element within an
 appropriation account, for which appropriations, funds, or other authority
 were not available during the fiscal year 1991, except projects, activities,
 operations, or organizations relating to `Operation Desert Shield/Desert
 Storm': Provided, That no appropriation or funds made available or authority
 granted pursuant to section 101 for the Department of Defense shall be used
 to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding for
 economic order quantity procurement unless specifically appropriated later.
 SEC. 103. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to the extent
 and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent appropriations Act.
 SEC. 104. No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted
 pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any project
 or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not
 available during the fiscal year 1991.
 SEC. 105. No provision which is included in an appropriations Act enumerated
 in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable appropriations Act
 for fiscal year 1991, and which by its terms is applicable to more than one
 appropriation, fund, or authority shall be applicable to any appropriation,
 fund, or authority provided in this joint resolution.
 SEC. 106. Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or in
 the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made available
 and authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall be available
 until (a) enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity
 provided for in this joint resolution, or (b) the enactment of the applicable
 appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project
 or activity, or (c) October 29, 1991, whichever first occurs.
 SEC. 107. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this joint
 resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any
 program, project, or activity during the period for which funds or authority
 for such project or activity are available under this joint resolution.
 SEC. 108. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall be
 charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever
 a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is
 contained is enacted into law.
 SEC. 109. No provision in any appropriations Act for the fiscal year
 1992 referred to in section 101 of this joint resolution that makes the
 availability of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the
 enactment of additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective
 before the date set forth in section 106(c) of this joint resolution.
 SEC. 110. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority granted
 pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to the time
 limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth in section
 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing herein shall be construed
 to waive any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
 SEC. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution or
 any other law, the amendments made by sections 8012 and 8013 of the Omnibus
 Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508) shall remain in
 effect through the period covered by this joint resolution.
 SEC. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution,
 except section 106, activities funded in the National Science Foundation's
 United States Antarctic Logistical Support Activities account shall be
 maintained at the current rate of operations.
 SEC. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution,
 except section 106, activities funded in the Federal Communications
 Commission's Salaries and Expenses account shall be maintained at the
 current rate of operations.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.