 
--H.J.Res.271--
H.J.Res.271
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
Joint Resolution
Authorizing the Go For Broke National Veterans Association Foundation to
establish a memorial in the District of Columbia or its environs to honor
Japanese American patriotism in World War II.
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Go For Broke National Veterans Association Foundation
  is authorized to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of
  Columbia or its environs to honor Japanese American patriotism in World
  War II.
  (b) COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS FOR COMMEMORATIVE WORKS- The establishment
  of the memorial shall be in accordance with the Act entitled `An Act to
  provide standards for placement of commemorative works on certain Federal
  lands in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for other purposes'
  approved November 14, 1986 (40 U.S.C. 1001, et seq.).
SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
  The Go For Broke National Veterans Association Foundation shall be
  solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of
  the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial. No Federal funds may
  be used to pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial.
SEC. 3. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.
  If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the memorial
  (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for in section
  8(b) of the Act referred to in section 1(b)), or upon expiration of the
  authority for the memorial under section 10(b) of that Act, there remains
  a balance of funds received for
the establishment of the memorial, the Go For Broke National Veterans
Association Foundation shall transmit the amount of the balance to the
Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the account provided for in section
8(b)(1) of that Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.