 
--H.J.Res.353--
H.J.Res.353
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
Joint Resolution
Designating the week beginning January 3, 1993, as `Braille Literacy Week'.
Whereas Braille, the system of dots used by the blind to read and write,
is a truly elegant and effective medium of literacy;
Whereas blind and visually impaired individuals must be afforded the
opportunity to achieve literacy so that they can compete in employment,
succeed in education, and live independent, fruitful lives;
Whereas recording devices, reading machines such as the optacon, and
computer-screen access programs have enabled blind individuals to gain access
to a wide variety of printed material but cannot replace a medium such as
Braille which allows a blind individual to read and write independently;
Whereas the teaching of Braille has been woefully neglected over the past
several decades; and
Whereas many States have acted or are acting to ensure that blind and visually
impaired school age students are taught Braille if it is judged the appropriate
medium to provide such students with the opportunity to achieve literacy:
Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION AND PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATION.
  That the week beginning January 3, 1993, is designated as `Braille Literacy
  Week'. The President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation
  calling upon the people of the United States to observe such week with
  appropriate ceremonies and activities, including educational activities
  to celebrate the contributions of the inventor of Braille, Louis Braille,
  who was born on January 4, 1809, and to heighten public awareness of both
  the importance of Braille literacy among children and adults who are blind
  and the great need for the production of the wide variety of commonly
  available print documents in Braille.
SEC. 2. STATE AND LOCAL PROCLAMATIONS.
  The Governor of each State, the chief executive of the District of Columbia
  and each territory of the United States, and the chief executive of
  each political subdivision of each State or territory is urged to issue
  a proclamation (or other appropriate official statement) calling upon
  the people of such State, the District of Columbia, or such territory
  or political subdivision to observe the week beginning January 3, 1993,
  in the manner described in section 1.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.