 
--H.J.Res 77--
H.J.Res. 77
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
Joint Resolution
To authorize the use of United States Armed Forces pursuant to  United Nations
Security Council Resolution 678.
Whereas the Government of Iraq without provocation invaded and occupied the
territory of Kuwait on August 2, 1990;
Whereas both the House of Representatives (in H.J. Res. 658 of the 101st
Congress) and the Senate (in S. Con. Res. 147 of the 101st Congress)
have condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and declared their support for
international action to reverse Iraq's aggression;
Whereas, Iraq's conventional, chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and
ballistic missile programs and its demonstrated willingness to use weapons
of mass destruction pose a grave threat to world peace;
Whereas the international community has demanded that Iraq withdraw
unconditionally and immediately from Kuwait and that Kuwait's independence
and legitimate government be restored;
Whereas the United Nations Security Council repeatedly affirmed the inherent
right of individual or collective self-defense in response to the armed
attack by Iraq against Kuwait in accordance with Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter;
Whereas, in the absence of full compliance by Iraq with its resolutions,
the United Nations Security Council in Resolution 678 has authorized member
states of the United Nations to use all necessary means, after January 15,
1991, to uphold and implement all relevant Security Council resolutions and
to restore international peace and security in the area; and
Whereas Iraq has persisted in its illegal occupation of, and brutal aggression
against Kuwait: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This joint resolution may be cited as the `Authorization for Use of Military
 Force Against Iraq Resolution'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- The President is authorized, subject to subsection (b),
 to use United States Armed Forces pursuant to United Nations Security Council
 Resolution 678 (1990) in order to achieve implementation of Security Council
 Resolutions 660, 661, 662, 664, 665, 666, 667, 669, 670, 674, and 677.
 (b) REQUIREMENT FOR DETERMINATION THAT USE OF MILITARY FORCE IS NECESSARY-
 Before exercising the authority granted in subsection (a), the President
 shall make available to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
 the President pro tempore of the Senate his determination that--
 (1) the United States has used all appropriate diplomatic and other peaceful
 means to obtain compliance by Iraq with the United Nations Security Council
 resolutions cited in subsection (a); and
 (2) that those efforts have not been and would not be successful in obtaining
 such compliance.
 (c) War Powers Resolution Requirements-
 (1) SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION- Consistent with section 8(a)(1)
 of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress declares that this section is
 intended to constitute specific statutory authorization within the meaning
 of section 5(b) of the War Powers Resolution.
 (2) APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REQUIREMENTS- Nothing in this resolution supersedes
 any requirement of the War Powers Resolution.
SEC. 3. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
 At least once every 60 days, the President shall submit to the Congress
 a summary on the status of efforts to obtain compliance by Iraq with the
 resolutions adopted by the United Nations Security Council in response to
 Iraq's aggression.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.