 
--H.R.3673--
H.R.3673
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize a research program through the National Science Foundation on
the treatment of contaminated water through membrane processes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Membrane Processes Research Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) there is an increasing threat of impairment to the quantity and quality
  of the Nation's water resources due to, among other things, growing national
  needs, recurring drought in the Western States, point and nonpoint source
  pollution, and saltwater intrusion into existing groundwater supplies;
  (2) many communities in the United States have water supplies containing
  high salinity levels or contaminants which pose health risks;
  (3) the Nation needs to develop economical processes to treat existing
  water supplies that are contaminated;
  (4) it is necessary to provide for research into new techniques to reclaim
  waste water and to convert saline and other contaminated waters to a
  quality suitable for municipal, industrial, agricultural, recreational,
  and other beneficial uses;
  (5) there is very little Federal funding being applied to basic research in
  the field of treatment of contaminated water through membrane processes; and
  (6) the treatment of contaminated water through membrane processes will
  solve a wide variety of water treatment problems, including compliance
  with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the Safe Drinking Water Act.
SEC. 3. RESEARCH PROGRAM.
  The Director of the National Science Foundation shall establish a basic
  research program on membranes and membrane processes.  Such program may be
  carried out through awarding grants, entering into contracts or cooperative
  agreements, or direct research.
SEC. 4. GOALS OF RESEARCH PROGRAM.
  The goals of the research program established under section 3 shall be--
  (1) the development of membranes resistant to degradation, bacterial or
  otherwise, thereby extending the life of such membranes;
  (2) the development of membranes useful for the efficient and cost effective
  treatment of contaminated water; and
  (3) the development of innovative technologies for membrane processes.
SEC. 5. COORDINATION WITH OTHER RESEARCH.
  The research program established under section 3 shall be carried out in
  coordination with any other related Federal research efforts.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director of the National
  Science Foundation, from sums otherwise authorized to be appropriated,
  $2,500,000 for fiscal year 1993, for carrying out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.