 
--H.R.3635--
 H.R.3635
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend the program of
block grants for preventive health and health services, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Preventive Health Amendments
  of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--PREVENTIVE HEALTH AND HEALTH SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Use of allotments.
Sec. 103. Application for payments.
Sec. 104. Reports, data, and audits.
TITLE II--NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION
Sec. 201. Establishment of Foundation.
TITLE III--CERTAIN PROGRAMS
Sec. 301. Injury control.
Sec. 302. Establishment of Office of Adolescent Health.
Sec. 303. Lead poisoning prevention.
Sec. 304. Preventable cases of infertility arising as result of sexually
transmitted diseases.
Sec. 305. Bulk purchases of vaccines for certain programs.
Sec. 306. State programs regarding data on birth defects.
Sec. 307. Screenings for breast and cervical cancer.
Sec. 308. Screenings for prostate cancer.
Sec. 309. Certain programs.
Sec. 310. International cooperation.
Sec. 311. Miscellaneous provisions.
Sec. 312. Change in name of Centers for Disease Control.
Sec. 313. Technical corrections.
Sec. 314. Authorization of appropriations regarding vaccine compensation.
TITLE I--PREVENTIVE HEALTH AND HEALTH SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1901(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 300w(a)) is amended by striking `For the purpose' and all that
  follows and inserting the following: `For the purpose of allotments under
  section 1902, there are authorized to be appropriated $205,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
  years 1994 through 1997.'.
  (b) ALLOCATION FOR SERVICES FOR RAPE VICTIMS AND FOR RAPE PREVENTION-
  Section 1901(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300w(b))
  is amended by striking `$3,500,000' and inserting `$7,000,000'.
SEC. 102. USE OF ALLOTMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1904(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 300w-3(a)(1)) is amended to read as follows: `(1) Except as provided
  in subsections (b) and (c), payments made to a State under section 1903
  may be used for the following:
  `(A) Activities consistent with making progress toward achieving the
  objectives established by the Secretary for the health status of the
  population of the United States for the year 2000 (in this part referred
  to as `year 2000 health objectives').
  `(B) Preventive health service programs for the control of rodents and
  for community and school-based fluoridation programs.
  `(C) Feasibility studies and planning for emergency medical services systems
  and the establishment, expansion, and improvement of such systems. Amounts
  for such systems may not be used for the costs of the operation of the
  systems or the purchase of equipment for the systems, except that such
  amounts may be used for the payment of not more than 50 percent of the
  costs of purchasing communications equipment for the systems. Amounts
  may be expended for feasibility studies or planning for the trauma-care
  components of such systems only if the studies or planning, respectively,
  is consistent with the requirements of section 1213(a).
  `(D) Providing services to victims of sex offenses and for prevention of
  sex offenses.
  `(E) With respect to activities described in any of subparagraphs (A)
  through (D), related planning, administration, and educational activities.
  `(F) Monitoring and evaluation of activities carried out under any of
  subparagraphs (A) through (E)'.
  (b) TRANSFERS FROM CERTAIN ALLOTMENT- Section 1904(c) of the Public Health
  Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300w-3(c)) is amended by striking `parts B and C'
  and inserting `part B'.
SEC. 103. APPLICATION FOR PAYMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1905 of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 300w-4) is amended to read as follows:
`APPLICATION FOR PAYMENTS; STATE PLAN
  `SEC. 1905. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make payments under section
  1903 to a State for a fiscal year only if--
  `(1) the State submits to the Secretary an application for the payments;
  `(2) the application contains a State plan in accordance with subsection (b);
  `(3) the application contains the certification described in subsection (c);
  `(4) the application contains such assurances as the Secretary may require
  regarding the compliance of the State with the requirements of this part
  (including assurances regarding compliance with the agreements described
  in subsection (c)); and
  `(5) the application is in such form and is submitted by such date as the
  Secretary may require.
  `(b) STATE PLAN- A State plan required in subsection (a)(2) for a fiscal
  year is in accordance with this subsection if the plan meets the following
  conditions:
  `(1) The plan is developed by the State agency with principal responsibility
  for public health programs, in consultation with the advisory committee
  established pursuant to subsection (c)(2).
  `(2) The plan specifies the activities authorized in section 1904 that
  are to be carried out with payments made to the State under section 1903,
  including a specification of the year 2000 health objectives for which
  the State will expend the payments.
  `(3) The plan specifies the populations in the State for which such
  activities are to be carried out.
  `(4) The plan specifies any populations in the State that have a disparate
  need for such activities.
  `(5) With respect to each population specified under paragraph (3), the
  plan contains a strategy for expending such payments to carry out such
  activities to make progress toward improving the health status of the
  population, which strategy includes--
  `(A) a description of the programs and projects to be carried out;
  `(B) an estimate of the number of individuals to be served by the programs
  and projects; and
  `(C) an estimate of the number of public health personnel needed to carry
  out the strategy.
  `(6) The plan specifies the amount of such payments to be expended for
  each of such activities and, with respect to the activity involved--
  `(A) the amount to be expended for each population specified under paragraph
  (3); and
  `(B) the amount to be expended for each population specified under paragraph
  (4).
  `(c) STATE CERTIFICATION- The certification referred to in subsection
  (a)(3) for a fiscal year is a certification to the Secretary by the chief
  executive officer of the State involved as follows:
  `(1)(A) In the development of the State plan required in subsection (a)(2)--
  `(i) the chief health officer of the State held public hearings on the
  plan; and
  `(ii) proposals for the plan were made public in a manner that facilitated
  comments from public and private entities (including Federal and other
  public agencies).
  `(B) The State agrees that, if any revisions are made in such plan
  during the fiscal year, the State will, with respect to the revisions,
  hold hearings and make proposals public in accordance with subparagraph
  (A), and will submit to the Secretary a description of the revisions.
  `(2) The State has established an advisory committee in accordance with
  subsection (d).
  `(3) The State agrees to expend payments under section 1903 only for the
  activities authorized in section 1904.
  `(4) The State agrees to expend such payments in accordance with the State
  plan submitted under subsection (a)(2) (with any revisions submitted to
  the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B)), including making expenditures to
  carry out the strategy contained in the plan pursuant to subsection (b)(5).
  `(5)(A) The State agrees that, in the case of each population for which
  such strategy is carried out, the State will measure the extent of progress
  being made toward improving the health status of the population.
  `(B) The State agrees that--
  `(i) the State will collect and report data in accordance with section
  1906(a); and
  `(ii) for purposes of subparagraph (A), progress will be measured through
  use of each of the applicable uniform data items developed by the Secretary
  under paragraph (2) of such section, or if no such items are applicable,
  through use of the uniform criteria developed by the Secretary under
  paragraph (3) of such section.
  `(6) With respect to the activities authorized in section 1904, the State
  agrees to maintain State expenditures for such activities at a level that
  is not less than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the
  State for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the State
  is applying to receive payments under section 1903.
  `(7) The State agrees to establish reasonable criteria to evaluate the
  effective performance of entities that receive funds from such payments
  and procedures for procedural and substantive independent State review of
  the failure by the State to provide funds for any such entity.
  `(8) The State agrees to permit and cooperate with Federal investigations
  undertaken in accordance with section 1907.
  `(9) The State has in effect a system to protect from inappropriate
  disclosure patient and sex offense victim records maintained by the State
  in connection with an activity funded under this part or by any entity
  which is receiving payments from the allotment of the State under this part.
  `(10) The State agrees to provide the officer of the State government
  responsible for the administration of the State highway safety program
  with an opportunity to--
  `(A) participate in the development of any plan by the State relating to
  emergency medical services, as such plan relates to highway safety; and
  `(B) review and comment on any proposal by any State agency to use any
  Federal grant or Federal payment received by the State for the provision
  of emergency medical services as such proposal relates to highway safety.
  `(d) STATE ADVISORY COMMITTEE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of subsection (c)(2), an advisory committee
  is in accordance with this subsection if such committee is known as the
  State Preventive Health Advisory Committee (in this subsection referred
  to as the `Committee') and the Committee meets the conditions described
  in the subsequent paragraphs of this subsection.
  `(2) DUTIES- A condition under paragraph (1) for a State is that the duties
  of the Committee are--
  `(A) to hold public hearings on the State plan required in subsection
  (a)(2); and
  `(B) to make recommendations pursuant to subsection (b)(1) regarding the
  development and implementation of such plan, including recommendations on--
  `(i) the conduct of assessments of the public health;
  `(ii) which of the activities authorized in section 1904 should be carried
  out in the State;
  `(iii) the allocation of payments made to the State under section 1903;
  `(iv) the coordination of activities carried out under such plan with
  relevant programs of other entities; and
  `(v) the collection and reporting of data in accordance with section 1906(a).
  `(3) COMPOSITION-
  `(A) A condition under paragraph (1) for a State is that the Committee
  is composed of such members of the general public, and such officials of
  the health departments of political subdivisions of the State, as may be
  necessary to provide adequate representation of the general public and of
  such health departments.
  `(B) With respect to compliance with subparagraph (A), the membership of
  advisory committees established pursuant to subsection (c)(2) may include
  representatives of community-based organizations (including minority
  community-based organizations), schools of public health, and entities to
  which the State involved awards grants or contracts to carry out activities
  authorized in section 1904.
  `(4) CHAIR; MEETINGS- A condition under paragraph (1) for a State is that
  the State public health officer serves as the chair of the Committee,
  and that the Committee meets not less than twice each fiscal year.'.
  (b) DELAYED APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENT REGARDING ADVISORY COMMITTEES-
  With respect to compliance with the requirement established in subsection
  (c)(2) of section 1905 of the Public Health Service Act (as amended by
  subsection (a) of this section), a State is deemed, notwithstanding such
  section, to be in compliance with such requirement if the State establishes
  an advisory committee in accordance with subsection (d) of such section
  not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 104. REPORTS, DATA, AND AUDITS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1906(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 300w-5(a)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(a)(1) For purposes of section 1905(c)(5)(B)(i), a State is collecting
  and reporting data for a fiscal year in accordance with this subsection
  if the State submits to the Secretary, not later than February 1 of the
  succeeding fiscal year, a report that--
  `(A) describes the purposes for which the State expended payments made to
  the State under section 1903;
  `(B) pursuant to section 1905(c)(5)(A), describes the extent of progress
  made by the State for purposes of such section;
  `(C) meets the conditions described in the subsequent paragraphs of this
  subsection; and
  `(D) contains such additional information regarding activities authorized
  in section 1904, and is submitted in such form, as the Secretary may require.
  `(2)(A) The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall develop
  sets of data for uniformly defining health status for purposes of the
  year 2000 health objectives (which sets are in this subsection referred
  to as `uniform data sets'). Each of such sets shall consist of one or more
  categories of information (in this subsection individually referred to as a
  `uniform data item'). The Secretary shall develop formats for the uniform
  collecting and reporting of information on such items.
  `(B) A condition under paragraph (1)(C) for a fiscal year is that the State
  involved will, in accordance with the applicable format under subparagraph
  (A), collect during such year, and include in the report under paragraph
  (1), the necessary information for one uniform data item from each of the
  uniform data sets, which items are selected for the State by the Secretary.
  `(C) In the case of fiscal year 1995 and each subsequent fiscal year,
  a condition under paragraph (1) for a State is that the State will, in
  accordance with the applicable format under subparagraph (A), collect
  during such year, and include in the report under paragraph (1), the
  necessary information for each of the uniform data sets appropriate to
  the year 2000 health objectives that the State has, in the State plan
  submitted under section 1905 for the fiscal year, specified as a purpose
  for which payments under section 1903 are to be expended.
  `(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the States, shall establish
  criteria for the uniform collection and reporting of data on activities
  authorized in section 1904 with respect to which no uniform data items exist.
  `(4) A condition under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year is that the State
  involved will make copies of the report submitted under such paragraph
  for the fiscal year available for public inspection, and will upon request
  provide a copy of the report to any individual for a charge not exceeding
  the cost of providing the copy.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 1906 of the Public Health Service Act
  (42 U.S.C. 300w-5) is amended--
  (1) in the heading for the section, by inserting `, DATA,' after `REPORTS';
  and
  (2)  by striking subsection (d).
SEC. 105. REPEAL OF YEAR 2000 HEALTH OBJECTIVES PLANNING ACT.
  The Year 2000 Health Objectives Planning Act (Public Law 101-582; 42
  U.S.C. 246 note) is repealed.
TITLE II--NATIONAL FOUNDATION FOR THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION
SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF FOUNDATION.
  Title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.), as
  amended by section 401 of Public Law 102-321 (106 Stat. 419), is amended
  by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part N--National Foundation for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
`SEC. 399F. ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF FOUNDATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- There shall be established in accordance with this section a
  nonprofit private corporation to be known as the National Foundation for the
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (in this part referred to as the
  `Foundation'). The Foundation shall not be an agency or instrumentality of
  the Federal Government, and officers, employees, and members of the board of
  the Foundation shall not be officers or employees of the Federal Government.
  `(b) PURPOSE OF FOUNDATION- The purpose of the Foundation shall be to
  support and carry out activities for the prevention and control of diseases,
  disorders, injuries, and disabilities, and for promotion of public health.
  `(c) Endowment Fund-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out subsection (b), the Foundation shall
  establish a fund for providing endowments for positions that are associated
  with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and dedicated to the
  purpose described in such subsection. Subject to subsection (f)(1)(B),
  the fund shall consist of such donations as may be provided by non-Federal
  entities and such non-Federal assets of the Foundation (including earnings
  of the Foundation and the fund) as the Foundation may elect to transfer
  to the fund.
  `(2) AUTHORIZED EXPENDITURES OF FUND- The provision of endowments under
  paragraph (1) shall be the exclusive function of the fund established under
  such paragraph. Such endowments may be expended only for the compensation of
  individuals holding the positions, for staff, equipment, quarters, travel,
  and other expenditures that are appropriate in supporting the positions,
  and for recruiting individuals to hold the positions endowed by the fund.
  `(d) CERTAIN ACTIVITIES OF FOUNDATION- In carrying out subsection (b),
  the Foundation may provide for the following with respect to the purpose
  described in such subsection:
  `(1) Programs of fellowships for State and local public health officials
  to work and study in association with the Centers for Disease Control
  and Prevention.
  `(2) Programs of international arrangements to provide opportunities
  for public health officials of other countries to serve in public health
  capacities in the United States in association with the Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention or elsewhere, or opportunities for employees of
  such Centers (or other public health officials in the United States)
  to serve in such capacities in other countries, or both.
  `(3) Studies, projects, and research (which may include applied research
  on the effectiveness of prevention activities, demonstration projects,
  and programs and projects involving international, Federal, State, and
  local governments).
  `(4) Forums for government officials and appropriate private entities to
  exchange information. Participants in such forums may include institutions
  of higher education and appropriate international organizations.
  `(5) Meetings, conferences, courses, and training workshops.
  `(6) Programs to improve the collection and analysis of data on the health
  status of various populations.
  `(7) Programs for writing, editing, printing, and publishing of books and
  other materials.
  `(8) Other activities to carry out the purpose described in subsection (b).
  `(e) General Structure of Foundation; Nonprofit Status-
  `(1) BOARD OF DIRECTORS- The Foundation shall have a board of directors
  (in this part referred to as the `Board'), which shall be established and
  conducted in accordance with subsection (f). The Board shall establish
  the general policies of the Foundation for carrying out subsection (b),
  including the establishment of the bylaws of the Foundation.
  `(2) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- The Foundation shall have an executive director
  (in this part referred to as the `Director'), who shall be appointed by
  the Board, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board, and for whom the
  Board shall establish the rate of compensation. Subject to compliance with
  the policies and bylaws established by the Board pursuant to paragraph
  (1), the Director shall be responsible for the daily operations of the
  Foundation in carrying out subsection (b).
  `(3) NONPROFIT STATUS- In carrying out subsection (b), the Board shall
  establish such policies and bylaws under paragraph (1), and the Director
  shall carry out such activities under paragraph (2), as may be necessary
  to ensure that the Foundation maintains status as an organization that--
  `(A) is described in subsection (c)(3) of section 501 of the Internal
  Revenue Code of 1986; and
  `(B) is, under subsection (a) of such section, exempt from taxation.
  `(f) Board of Directors-
  `(1) Certain bylaws-
  `(A) In establishing bylaws under subsection (e)(1), the Board shall ensure
  that the bylaws of the Foundation include bylaws for the following:
  `(i) Policies for the selection of the officers, employees, agents, and
  contractors of the Foundation.
  `(ii) Policies, including ethical standards, for the acceptance and
  disposition of donations to the Foundation and for the disposition of the
  assets of the Foundation.
  `(iii) Policies for the conduct of the general operations of the Foundation.
  `(iv) Policies for writing, editing, printing, and publishing of books and
  other materials, and the acquisition of patents and licenses for devices
  and procedures developed by the Foundation.
  `(B) In establishing bylaws under subsection (e)(1), the Board shall ensure
  that the bylaws of the Foundation (and activities carried out under the
  bylaws) do not--
  `(i) reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the Foundation, or the Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, to carry out its responsibilities or
  official duties in a fair and objective manner; or
  `(ii) compromise, or appear to compromise, the integrity of any governmental
  program or any officer or employee involved in such program.
  `(2) Composition-
  `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Board shall be composed of 7
  individuals, appointed in accordance with paragraph (4), who collectively
  possess education or experience appropriate for representing the general
  field of public health, the general field of international health, and the
  general public. Each such individual shall be a voting member of the Board.
  `(B) The Board may, through amendments to the bylaws of the Foundation,
  provide that the number of members of the Board shall be a greater number
  than the number specified in subparagraph (A).
  `(3) CHAIR- The Board shall, from among the members of the Board, designate
  an individual to serve as the chair of the Board (in this subsection
  referred to as the `Chair').
  `(4) APPOINTMENTS, VACANCIES, AND TERMS- Subject to subsection (j) (regarding
  the initial membership of the Board), the following shall apply to the Board:
  `(A) Any vacancy in the membership of the Board shall be filled by
  appointment by the Board, after consideration of suggestions made by the
  Chair and the Director regarding the appointments. Any such vacancy shall
  be filled not later than the expiration of the 180-day period beginning
  on the date on which the vacancy occurs.
  `(B) The term of office of each member of the Board appointed under
  subparagraph (A) shall be 5 years. A member of the Board may continue to
  serve after the expiration of the term of the member until the expiration
  of the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the term of the
  member expires.
  `(C) A vacancy in the membership of the Board shall not affect the power
  of the Board to carry out the duties of the Board. If a member of the
  Board does not serve the full term applicable under subparagraph (B),
  the individual appointed to fill the resulting vacancy shall be appointed
  for the remainder of the term of the predecessor of the individual.
  `(5) COMPENSATION- Members of the Board may not receive compensation
  for service on the Board. The members may be reimbursed for travel,
  subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in carrying out the
  duties of the Board.
  `(g) CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- In carrying out
  subsection (e)(2), the Director shall carry out the following functions:
  `(1) Hire, promote, compensate, and discharge officers and employees of
  the Foundation, and define the duties of the officers and employees.
  `(2) Accept and administer donations to the Foundation, and administer
  the assets of the Foundation.
  `(3) Establish a process for the selection of candidates for holding
  endowed positions under subsection (c).
  `(4) Enter into such financial agreements as are appropriate in carrying
  out the activities of the Foundation.
  `(5) Take such action as may be necessary to acquire patents and licenses
  for devices and procedures developed by the Foundation and the employees
  of the Foundation.
  `(6) Adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which shall be judicially
  noticed.
  `(7) Commence and respond to judicial proceedings in the name of the
  Foundation.
  `(8) Other functions that are appropriate in the determination of the
  Director.
  `(h) General Provisions-
  `(1) AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTING FUNDS- The Director of the Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention may accept and utilize, on behalf of the Federal
  Government, any gift, donation, bequest, or devise of real or personal
  property from the Foundation for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the
  work of such Centers. Funds may be accepted and utilized by such Director
  under the preceding sentence without regard to whether the funds are
  designated as general-purpose funds or special-purpose funds.
  `(2) Authority for acceptance of voluntary services-
  `(A) The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  may accept, on behalf of the Federal Government, any voluntary services
  provided to such Centers by the Foundation for the purpose of aiding or
  facilitating the work of such Centers. In the case of an individual, such
  Director may accept the services provided under the preceding sentence by
  the individual for not more than 2 years.
  `(B) The limitation established in subparagraph (A) regarding the period
  of time in which services may be accepted applies to each individual who
  is not an employee of the Federal Government and who serves in association
  with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention pursuant to financial
  support from the Foundation.
  `(3) ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL- No officer, employee, or member of the Board
  of the Foundation may exercise any administrative or managerial control
  over any Federal employee.
  `(4) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN STANDARDS TO NON-FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- In the
  case of any individual who is not an employee of the Federal Government
  and who serves in association with the Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention pursuant to financial support from the Foundation, the Foundation
  shall negotiate a memorandum of understanding with the individual and the
  Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention specifying that
  the individual--
  `(A) shall be subject to the ethical and procedural standards regulating
  Federal employment, scientific investigation, and research findings
  (including publications and patents) that are required of individuals
  employed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, including
  standards under this Act, the Ethics in Government Act, and the Technology
  Transfer Act; and
  `(B) shall be subject to such ethical and procedural standards under chapter
  11 of title 18, United States Code (relating to conflicts of interest),
  as the Director of such Centers determines is appropriate, except such
  memorandum may not provide that the individual shall be subject to the
  standards of section 209 of such chapter.
  `(5) FINANCIAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST- Any individual who is an officer,
  employee, or member of the Board of the Foundation may not directly
  or indirectly participate in the consideration or determination by the
  Foundation of any question affecting--
  `(A) any direct or indirect financial interest of the individual; or
  `(B) any direct or indirect financial interest of any business organization
  or other entity of which the individual is an officer or employee or in
  which the individual has a direct or indirect financial interest.
  `(6) AUDITS; AVAILABILITY OF RECORDS- The Foundation shall--
  `(A) provide for biennial audits of the financial condition of the
  Foundation; and
  `(B) make such audits, and all other records, documents, and other papers
  of the Foundation, available to the Secretary and the Comptroller General
  of the United States for examination or audit.
  `(7) REPORTS-
  `(A) Not later than February 1 of each fiscal year, the Foundation shall
  publish a report describing the activities of the Foundation during the
  preceding fiscal year. Each such report shall include for the fiscal
  year involved a comprehensive statement of the operations, activities,
  financial condition, and accomplishments of the Foundation.
  `(B) With respect to the financial condition of the Foundation, each report
  under subparagraph (A) shall include the source, and a description of, all
  gifts to the Foundation of real or personal property, and the source and
  amount of all gifts to the Foundation of money. Each such report shall
  include a specification of any restrictions on the purposes for which
  gifts to the Foundation may be used.
  `(C) The Foundation shall make copies of each report submitted under
  subparagraph (A) available for public inspection, and shall upon request
  provide a copy of the report to any individual for a charge not exceeding
  the cost of providing the copy.
  `(8) LIAISON FROM CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION- The Director of
  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall serve as the liaison
  representative of such Centers to the Board and the Foundation.
  `(i) Federal Funding-
  `(1) Authority for annual grants-
  `(A) The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, shall--
  `(i) for fiscal year 1993, make a grant to an entity described in subsection
  (j)(9) (relating to the establishment of a committee to establish the
  Foundation);
  `(ii) for fiscal year 1994, make a grant to the committee established
  under such subsection, or if the Foundation has been established, to the
  Foundation; and
  `(iii) for fiscal year 1995 and each subsequent fiscal year, make a grant
  to the Foundation.
  `(B) A grant under subparagraph (A) may be expended--
  `(i) in the case of an entity receiving the grant under subparagraph (A)(i),
  only for the purpose of carrying out the duties established in subsection
  (j)(9) for the entity;
  `(ii) in the case of the committee established under such subsection,
  only for the purpose of carrying out the duties established in subsection
  (j) for the committee; and
  `(iii) in the case of the Foundation, only for the purpose of the
  administrative expenses of the Foundation.
  `(C) A grant under subparagraph (A) may not be expended to provide amounts
  for the fund established under subsection (c).
  `(D) For the purposes described in subparagraph (B)--
  `(i) any portion of the grant made under subparagraph (A)(i) for fiscal
  year 1993 that remains unobligated after the entity receiving the grant
  completes the duties established in subsection (j)(9) for the entity shall
  be available to the committee established under such subsection; and
  `(ii) any portion of a grant under subparagraph (A) made for fiscal year
  1993 or 1994 that remains unobligated after such committee completes the
  duties established in such subsection for the committee shall be available
  to the Foundation.
  `(2) Funding for grants-
  `(A) For the purpose of grants under paragraph (1), there is authorized
  to be appropriated $500,000 for each fiscal year.
  `(B) For the purpose of grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary may for
  each fiscal year make available not more than $500,000 from the amounts
  appropriated for the fiscal year for the programs of the Department of
  Health and Human Services. Such amounts may be made available without
  regard to whether amounts have been appropriated under subparagraph (A).
  `(3) CERTAIN RESTRICTION- If the Foundation receives Federal funds for the
  purpose of serving as a fiscal intermediary between Federal agencies, the
  Foundation may not receive such funds for the indirect costs of carrying
  out such purpose in an amount exceeding 10 percent of the direct costs
  of carrying out such purpose. The preceding sentence may not be construed
  as authorizing the expenditure of any grant under paragraph (1) for such
  purpose.
  `(j) Committee for Establishment of Foundation-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- There shall be established in accordance with this
  subsection a committee to carry out the functions described in paragraph
  (2) (which committee is referred to in this subsection as the `Committee').
  `(2) FUNCTIONS- The functions referred to in paragraph (1) for the Committee
  are as follows:
  `(A) To carry out such activities as may be necessary to incorporate the
  Foundation under the laws of the State involved, including serving as
  incorporators for the Foundation. Such activities shall include ensuring
  that the articles of incorporation for the Foundation require that the
  Foundation be established and operated in accordance with the applicable
  provisions of this part (or any successor to this part), including such
  provisions as may be in effect pursuant to amendments enacted after the
  date of the enactment of the Preventive Health Amendments of 1992.
  `(B) To ensure that the Foundation qualifies for and maintains the status
  described in subsection (e)(3) (regarding taxation).
  `(C) To establish the general policies and initial bylaws of the Foundation,
  which bylaws shall include the bylaws described in subsections (e)(3) and
  (f)(1).
  `(D) To provide for the initial operation of the Foundation, including
  providing for quarters, equipment, and staff.
  `(E) To appoint the initial members of the Board in accordance with the
  requirements established in subsection (f)(2)(A) for the composition of the
  Board, and in accordance with such other qualifications as the Committee
  may determine to be appropriate regarding such composition. Of the members
  so appointed--
  `(i) 2 shall be appointed to serve for a term of 3 years;
  `(ii) 2 shall be appointed to serve for a term of 4 years; and
  `(iii) 3 shall be appointed to serve for a term of 5 years.
  `(3) Completion of functions of committee; initial meeting of board-
  `(A) The Committee shall complete the functions required in paragraph (1)
  not later than September 30, 1994. The Committee shall terminate upon
  the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the
  Secretary determines that the functions have been completed.
  `(B) The initial meeting of the Board shall be held not later than November
  1, 1994.
  `(4) COMPOSITION- The Committee shall be composed of 5 members, each of
  whom shall be a voting member. Of the members of the Committee--
  `(A) no fewer than 2 shall have broad, general experience in public
  health; and
  `(B) no fewer than 2 shall have broad, general experience in nonprofit
  private organizations (without regard to whether the individuals have
  experience in public health).
  `(5) CHAIR- The Committee shall, from among the members of the Committee,
  designate an individual to serve as the chair of the Committee.
  `(6) TERMS; VACANCIES- The term of members of the Committee shall be for
  the duration of the Committee. A vacancy in the membership of the Committee
  shall not affect the power of the Committee to carry out the duties of
  the Committee. If a member of the Committee does not serve the full term,
  the individual appointed to fill the resulting vacancy shall be appointed
  for the remainder of the term of the predecessor of the individual.
  `(7) COMPENSATION- Members of the Committee may not receive compensation
  for service on the Committee. Members of the Committee may be reimbursed
  for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred in carrying
  out the duties of the Committee.
  `(8) COMMITTEE SUPPORT- The Director of the Centers for Disease Control
  and Prevention may, from amounts available to the Director for the general
  administration of such Centers, provide staff and financial support to
  assist the Committee with carrying out the functions described in paragraph
  (2). In providing such staff and support, the Director may both detail
  employees and contract for assistance.'.
  `(9) Grant for establishment of committee-
  `(A) With respect to a grant under paragraph (1)(A)(i) of subsection (i)
  for fiscal year 1993, an entity described in this paragraph is a private
  nonprofit entity with significant experience in domestic and international
  issues of public health. Not later than 180 days after the date of the
  enactment of the Preventive Health Amendments of 1992, the Secretary shall
  make the grant to such an entity (subject to the availability of funds
  under paragraph (2) of such subsection).
  `(B) The grant referred to in subparagraph (A) may be made to an entity
  only if the entity agrees that--
  `(i) the entity will establish a committee that is composed in accordance
  with paragraph (4); and
  `(ii) the entity will not select an individual for membership on the
  Committee unless the individual agrees that the Committee will operate in
  accordance with each of the provisions of this subsection that relate to
  the operation of the Committee.
  `(C) The Secretary may make a grant referred to in subparagraph (A) only
  if the applicant for the grant makes an agreement that the grant will not
  be expended for any purpose other than carrying out subparagraph (B). Such
  a grant may be made only if an application for the grant is submitted to
  the Secretary containing such agreement, and the application is in such
  form, is made in such manner, and contains such other agreements and such
  assurances and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to
  carry out this paragraph.'.
TITLE III--CERTAIN PROGRAMS
SEC. 301. INJURY CONTROL.
  Section 392(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280b-1(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by adding at the end the following sentence: `In carrying out the
  preceding sentence, the Secretary shall disseminate such information to
  the public, including through elementary and secondary schools.'; and
  (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
  `(3) make grants to States and, after consultation with State health
  agencies, to other public or nonprofit private entities for the purpose
  of carrying out demonstration projects for the prevention and control of
  injuries at sites that are not subject to the Occupational Safety and
  Health Act of 1970, including homes, elementary and secondary schools,
  and public buildings.'.
SEC. 302. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF ADOLESCENT HEALTH.
  Title XVII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300u et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end the following section:
`OFFICE OF ADOLESCENT HEALTH
  `SEC. 1708. (a) IN GENERAL- There is established an Office of Adolescent
  Health within the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, which office
  shall be headed by a director appointed by the Secretary. The Secretary
  shall carry out this section acting through the Director of such Office.
  `(b) DUTIES- With respect to adolescent health, the Secretary shall--
  `(1) coordinate all activities within the Department of Health and Human
  Services that relate to disease prevention, health promotion, preventive
  health services, and health information and education with respect to the
  appropriate use of health care, including coordinating--
  `(A) the design of programs, support for programs, and the evaluation
  of programs;
  `(B) the monitoring of trends;
  `(C) projects of research (including multidisciplinary projects) on
  adolescent health; and
  `(D) the training of health providers who work with adolescents, particularly
  nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and social workers;
  `(2) coordinate the activities described in paragraph (1) with similar
  activities in the private sector; and
  `(3) support projects, conduct research, and disseminate information
  relating to preventive medicine, health promotion, and physical fitness
  and sports medicine.
  `(c) CERTAIN DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out subsection (b)(3), the Secretary may make
  grants to carry out demonstration projects for the purpose of improving
  adolescent health, including projects to train health care providers in
  providing services to adolescents and projects to reduce the incidence of
  violence among adolescents, particularly among minority males.
  `(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out
  paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal
  year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
  1994 through 1997.
  `(d) INFORMATION CLEARINGHOUSE- In carrying out subsection (b), the
  Secretary shall establish and maintain a National Information Clearinghouse
  on Adolescent Health to collect and disseminate to health professionals
  and the general public information on adolescent health.
  `(e) NATIONAL PLAN- In carrying out subsection (b), the Secretary shall
  develop a national plan for improving adolescent health. The plan shall
  be consistent with the applicable objectives established by the Secretary
  for the health status of the people of the United States for the year 2000,
  and shall be periodically reviewed, and as appropriate, revised. The plan,
  and any revisions in the plan, shall be submitted to the Committee on
  Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
  Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
  `(f) ADOLESCENT HEALTH- For purposes of this section, the term `adolescent
  health', with respect to adolescents of all ethnic and racial groups,
  means all diseases, disorders, and conditions (including with respect to
  mental health)--
  `(1) unique to adolescents, or more serious or more prevalent in adolescents;
  `(2) for which the factors of medical risk or types of medical intervention
  are different for adolescents, or for which it is unknown whether such
  factors or types are different for adolescents; or
  `(3) with respect to which there has been insufficient clinical research
  involving adolescents as subjects or insufficient clinical data on
  adolescents.'.
SEC. 303. LEAD POISONING PREVENTION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 317A of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 247b-1) is amended to read as follows:
`SCREENINGS, REFERRALS, AND EDUCATION REGARDING LEAD POISONING
  `SEC. 317A. (a) AUTHORITY FOR GRANTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary, acting through
  the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make
  grants to States and political subdivisions of States for the initiation
  and expansion of community programs designed--
  `(A) to provide, for infants and children--
  `(i) screening for elevated blood lead levels;
  `(ii) referral for treatment of such levels; and
  `(iii) referral for environmental intervention associated with such
  levels; and
  `(B) to provide education about childhood lead poisoning.
  `(2) AUTHORITY REGARDING CERTAIN ENTITIES- With respect to a geographic
  area with a need for activities authorized in paragraph (1), in any case in
  which neither the State nor the political subdivision in which such area
  is located has applied for a grant under paragraph (1), the Secretary may
  make a grant under such paragraph to any grantee under section 329, 330,
  340, or 340A for carrying out such activities in the area.
  `(3) PROVISION OF ALL SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES THROUGH EACH GRANTEE- In
  making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall ensure that each
  of the activities described in such paragraph is provided through each
  grantee under such paragraph. The Secretary may authorize such a grantee
  to provide the services and activities directly, or through arrangements
  with other providers.
  `(b) STATUS AS MEDICAID PROVIDER-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may not make a
  grant under subsection (a) unless, in the case of any service described in
  such subsection that is made available pursuant to the State plan approved
  under title XIX of the Social Security Act for the State involved--
  `(A) the applicant for the grant will provide the service directly, and
  the applicant has entered into a participation agreement under the State
  plan and is qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
  `(B) the applicant will enter into an agreement with a provider under which
  the provider will provide the service, and the provider has entered into
  such a participation agreement and is qualified to receive such payments.
  `(2) WAIVER REGARDING CERTAIN SECONDARY AGREEMENTS-
  `(A) In the case of a provider making an agreement pursuant to paragraph
  (1)(B) regarding the provision of services, the requirement established in
  such paragraph regarding a participation agreement shall be waived by the
  Secretary if the provider does not, in providing health care services,
  impose a charge or accept reimbursement available from any third-party
  payor, including reimbursement under any insurance policy or under any
  Federal or State health benefits plan.
  `(B) A determination by the Secretary of whether a provider referred to in
  subparagraph (A) meets the criteria for a waiver under such subparagraph
  shall be made without regard to whether the provider accepts voluntary
  donations regarding the provision of services to the public.
  `(c) PRIORITY IN MAKING GRANTS- In making grants under subsection (a),
  the Secretary shall give priority to applications for programs that will
  serve areas with a high incidence of elevated blood lead levels in infants
  and children.
  `(d) GRANT APPLICATION- No grant may be made under subsection (a),
  unless an application therefor has been submitted to, and approved by, the
  Secretary. Such an application shall be in such form and shall be submitted
  in such manner as the Secretary shall prescribe and shall include each of
  the following:
  `(1) A complete description of the program which is to be provided by or
  through the applicant.
  `(2) Assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the program to be provided
  under the grant applied for will include educational programs designed to--
  `(A) communicate to parents, educators, and local health officials the
  significance and prevalence of lead poisoning in infants and children
  (including the sources of lead exposure, the importance of screening
  young children for lead, and the preventive steps that parents can take
  in reducing the risk of lead poisoning) which the program is designed to
  detect and prevent; and
  `(B) communicate to health professionals and paraprofessionals updated
  knowledge concerning lead poisoning and research (including the health
  consequences, if any, of low-level lead burden; the prevalence of lead
  poisoning among all socioeconomic groupings; the benefits of expanded
  lead screening; and the therapeutic and other interventions available to
  prevent and combat lead poisoning in affected children and families).
  `(3) Assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant will
  report on a quarterly basis the number of infants and children screened for
  elevated blood lead levels, the number of infants and children who were
  found to have elevated blood lead levels, the number and type of medical
  referrals made for such infants and children, the outcome of such referrals,
  and other information to measure program effectiveness.
  `(4) Assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant will make
  such reports respecting the program involved as the Secretary may require.
  `(5) Assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant will
  coordinate the activities carried out pursuant to subsection (a) with
  related activities and services carried out in the State by grantees under
  title V or XIX of the Social Security Act.
  `(6) Assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that Federal funds made
  available under such a grant for any period will be so used as to supplement
  and, to the extent practical, increase the level of State, local, and
  other non-Federal funds that would, in the absence of such Federal funds,
  be made available for the program for which the grant is to be made and
  will in no event supplant such State, local, and other non-Federal funds.
  `(7) Such other information as the Secretary may prescribe.
  `(e) RELATIONSHIP TO SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES UNDER OTHER PROGRAMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- A recipient of a grant under subsection (a) may not
  make payments from the grant for any service or activity to the extent
  that payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made,
  with respect to such service or activity--
  `(A) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy,
  or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or
  `(B) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
  `(2) APPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN SECONDARY AGREEMENTS FOR PROVISION OF SERVICES-
  Paragraph (1) shall not apply in the case of a provider through which a
  grantee under subsection (a) provides services under such subsection if
  the Secretary has provided a waiver under subsection (b)(2) regarding
  the provider.
  `(f) METHOD AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- The Secretary shall determine the amount
  of a grant made under subsection (a). Payments under such grants may be
  made in advance on the basis of estimates or by way of reimbursement,
  with necessary adjustments on account of underpayments or overpayments,
  and in such installments and on such terms and conditions as the Secretary
  finds necessary to carry out the purposes of such grants. Not more than
  10 percent of any grant may be obligated for administrative costs.
  `(g) SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT, AND EMPLOYEE DETAIL- The Secretary, at the
  request of a recipient of a grant under subsection (a), may reduce the
  amount of such grant by--
  `(1) the fair market value of any supplies or equipment furnished the
  grant recipient; and
  `(2) the amount of the pay, allowances, and travel expenses of any officer
  or employee of the Government when detailed to the grant recipient and
  the amount of any other costs incurred in connection with the detail of
  such officer or employee;
when the furnishing of such supplies or equipment or the detail of such an
officer or employee is for the convenience of and at the request of such
grant recipient and for the purpose of carrying out a program with respect to
which the grant under subsection (a) is made. The amount by which any such
grant is so reduced shall be available for payment by the Secretary of the
costs incurred in furnishing the supplies or equipment, or in detailing the
personnel, on which the reduction of such grant is based, and such amount
shall be deemed as part of the grant and shall be deemed to have been paid
to the grant recipient.
  `(h) RECORDS- Each recipient of a grant under subsection (a) shall keep such
  records as the Secretary shall prescribe, including records which fully
  disclose the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of
  such grant, the total cost of the undertaking in connection with which
  such grant was made, and the amount of that portion of the cost of the
  undertaking supplied by other sources, and such other records as will
  facilitate an effective audit.
  `(i) AUDIT AND EXAMINATION OF RECORDS- The Secretary and the
  Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized
  representatives, shall have access for the purpose of audit and examination
  to any books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient of a grant
  under subsection (a), that are pertinent to such grant.
  `(j) ANNUAL REPORT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than May 1 of each year, the Secretary shall
  submit to the Congress a report on the effectiveness during the preceding
  fiscal year of programs carried out with grants under subsection (a) and of
  any programs that are carried out by the Secretary pursuant to subsection
  (l)(2).
  `(2) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- Each report under paragraph (1) shall include,
  in addition to any other information that the Secretary may require,
  the following information:
  `(A) The number of infants and children screened.
  `(B) Demographic information on the population of infants and children
  screened, including the age and racial or ethnic status of such population.
  `(C) The number of screening sites.
  `(D) A description of the severity of the extent of the blood lead levels
  of the infants and children screened, expressed in categories of severity.
  `(E) The sources of payment for the screenings.
  `(F) A comparison of the data provided pursuant to subparagraphs (A) through
  (E) with the equivalent data, if any, provided in the report under paragraph
  (1) preceding the report involved.
  `(k) INDIAN TRIBES- For purposes of this section, the term `political
  subdivision' includes Indian tribes.
  `(l) FUNDING-
  `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
  section, there are authorized to be appropriated $40,000,000 for fiscal
  year 1993,  and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
  1994 through 1997.
  `(2) ALLOCATION FOR OTHER PROGRAMS- Of the amounts appropriated under
  paragraph (1) for any fiscal year, the Secretary may reserve not more than
  20 percent for carrying out programs regarding the activities described
  in subsection (a) in addition to the program of grants established in
  such subsection.'.
  (b) OTHER PROGRAMS- Part A of title III of the Public Health Service Act
  (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 317A the
  following section:
`EDUCATION, TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, AND EPIDEMIOLOGY REGARDING LEAD POISONING
  `SEC. 317B. (a) PREVENTION-
  `(1) PUBLIC EDUCATION- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall carry out a program to
  educate health professionals and paraprofessionals and the general public on
  the prevention of lead poisoning in infants and children. In carrying out
  the program, the Secretary shall make available information concerning the
  health effects of low-level lead toxicity, the causes of lead poisoning,
  and the primary and secondary preventive measures that may be taken to
  prevent such poisoning.
  `(2) INTERAGENCY TASK FORCE-
  `(A) Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of the
  Preventive Health Amendments of 1992, the Secretary shall establish a council
  to be known as the Interagency Task Force on the Prevention of Lead Poisoning
  (in this paragraph referred to as the `Task Force'). The Task Force shall
  coordinate the efforts of Federal agencies to prevent lead poisoning.
  `(B) The Task Force shall be composed of--
  `(i) the Secretary, who shall serve as the chair of the Task Force;
  `(ii) the Secretary of Housing and Urban  Development;
  `(iii) the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; and
  `(iv) senior staff of each of the officials specified in clauses (i)
  through (iii), as selected by the officials respectively.
  `(C) The Task Force shall--
  `(i) review, evaluate, and coordinate current strategies and plans formulated
  by the officials serving as members of the Task Force, including--
  `(I) the plan of the Secretary of Health and Human Services entitled
  `Strategic Plan for the Elimination of Lead Poisoning', dated February
  21, 1991;
  `(II) the plan of the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development entitled
  `Comprehensive and Workable Plan for the Abatement of Lead-Based Paint in
  Privately Owned Housing', dated December 7, 1990; and
  `(III) the strategy of the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
  Agency entitled `Strategy for Reducing Lead Exposures', dated February
  21, 1991;
  `(ii) develop a unified implementation plan for programs that receive
  Federal financial assistance for activities related to the prevention of
  lead poisoning;
  `(iii) establish a mechanism for sharing and disseminating information
  among the agencies represented on the Task Force;
  `(iv) identify the most promising areas of research and education concerning
  lead poisoning;
  `(v) identify the practical and technological constraints to expanding
  lead poisoning prevention;
  `(vi) annually carry out a comprehensive review of Federal programs
  providing assistance to prevent lead poisoning, and not later than May 1
  of each year, submit to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
  Senate and the Committee on the Environment and Public Works of the Senate,
  and to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
  a report that summarizes the findings made as a result of such review and
  that contains the recommendations of the Task Force on the programs and
  policies with respect to which the Task Force is established, including
  related budgetary recommendations; and
  `(vii) annually review and coordinate departmental and agency budgetary
  requests with respect to all lead poisoning prevention activities of the
  Federal   Government.
  `(b) TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT AND EPIDEMIOLOGY- The Secretary, acting through
  the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall,
  directly or through grants or contracts--
  `(1) provide for the development of improved, more cost-effective testing
  measures for detecting lead toxicity in children;
  `(2) provide for the development of improved methods of assessing the
  prevalence of lead poisoning, including such methods as may be necessary
  to conduct individual assessments for each State;
  `(3) provide for the collection of data on the incidence and prevalence of
  lead poisoning of infants and children, on the demographic characteristics
  of infants and children with such poisoning (including racial and ethnic
  status), and on the source of payment for treatment for such poisoning
  (including the extent to which insurance has paid for such treatment); and
  `(4) provide for any applied research necessary to improve the effectiveness
  of programs for the prevention of lead poisoning in infants and children.'.
SEC. 304.  PREVENTABLE CASES OF INFERTILITY ARISING AS RESULT OF SEXUALLY
TRANSMITTED DISEASES.
  Part A of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et
  seq.) is amended by inserting after section 318 the following section:
`INFERTILITY AND SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASES
  `SEC. 318A. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of
  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants to States,
  political subdivisions of States, and other public or nonprofit private
  entities for the purpose of carrying out the activities described in
  subsection (c) regarding any treatable sexually transmitted disease that
  can cause infertility in women if treatment is not received for the disease.
  `(b) AUTHORITY REGARDING INDIVIDUAL DISEASES- With respect to diseases
  described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall, in making a grant under
  such subsection, specify the particular disease or diseases with respect
  to which the grant is to be made. The Secretary may not make the grant
  unless the applicant involved agrees to carry out this section only with
  respect to the disease or diseases so specified.
  `(c) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- With respect to any sexually transmitted
  disease described in subsection (a), the activities referred to in such
  subsection are--
  `(1) screening women for the disease and for secondary conditions resulting
  from the disease, subject to compliance with criteria issued under subsection
  (f);
  `(2) providing treatment to women for the disease;
  `(3) providing counseling to women on the prevention and control of the
  disease (including, in the case of a woman with the disease, counseling on
  the benefits of locating and providing such counseling to any individual
  from whom the woman may have contracted the disease and any individual
  whom the woman may have exposed to the disease);
  `(4) providing follow-up services;
  `(5) referrals for necessary medical services for women screened pursuant
  to paragraph (1), including referrals for evaluation and treatment
  with respect to acquired immune deficiency syndrome and other sexually
  transmitted diseases;
  `(6) in the case of any woman receiving services pursuant to any of
  paragraphs (1) through (5), providing to the partner of the woman the
  services described in such paragraphs, as appropriate;
  `(7) providing outreach services to inform women of the availability of
  the services described in paragraphs (1) through (6);
  `(8) providing to the public information and education on the prevention
  and control of the disease, including disseminating such information; and
  `(9) providing training to health care providers in carrying out the
  screenings and counseling described in paragraphs (1) and (3).
  `(d) REQUIREMENT OF AVAILABILITY OF ALL SERVICES THROUGH EACH GRANTEE-
  The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only if the applicant
  involved agrees that each activity authorized in subsection (c) will be
  available through the applicant. With respect to compliance with such
  agreement, the applicant may expend the grant to carry out any of the
  activities directly, and may expend the grant to enter into agreements
  with other public or nonprofit private entities under which the entities
  carry out the activities.
  `(e) REQUIRED PROVIDERS REGARDING CERTAIN SERVICES- The Secretary may make
  a grant under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees that, in
  expending the grant to carry out activities authorized in subsection (c),
  the services described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of such subsection
  will be provided only through entities that are State or local health
  departments, grantees under section 329, 330, 340, 340A, or 1001, or are
  other public or nonprofit private entities that provide health services
  to a significant number of low-income women.
  `(f) QUALITY ASSURANCE REGARDING SCREENING FOR DISEASES- For purposes
  of this section, the Secretary shall establish criteria for ensuring the
  quality of screening procedures for diseases described in subsection (a).
  `(g) CONFIDENTIALITY- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection
  (a) only if the applicant involved agrees, subject to applicable law, to
  maintain the confidentiality of information on individuals with respect
  to activities carried out under subsection (c).
  `(h) LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF FEES FOR SERVICES- The Secretary may make
  a grant under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees that,
  if a charge is imposed for the provision of services or activities under
  the grant, such charge--
  `(1) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available
  to the public;
  `(2) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the individual involved; and
  `(3) will not be imposed on any individual with an income of less than 150
  percent of the official poverty line, as established by the Director of the
  Office of Management and Budget and revised by the Secretary in accordance
  with section 673(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981.
  `(i) LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN EXPENDITURES- The Secretary may make a grant
  under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees that not less
  than 80 percent of the grant will be expended for the purpose of carrying
  out paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (c).
  `(j) REPORTS TO SECRETARY-
  `(1) COLLECTION OF DATA- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection
  (a) only if the applicant involved agrees, with respect to any disease
  selected under subsection (b) for the applicant, to submit to the Secretary,
  for each fiscal year for which the applicant receives such a grant,
  a report providing--
  `(A) the incidence of the disease among the population of individuals
  served by the applicant;
  `(B) the number and demographic characteristics of individuals in such
  population;
  `(C) the types of interventions and treatments provided by the applicant,
  and the health conditions with respect to which referrals have been made
  pursuant to subsection (c)(5);
  `(D) an assessment of the extent to which the activities carried pursuant to
  subsection (a) have reduced the incidence of infertility in the geographic
  area involved; and
  `(E) such other information as the Secretary may require with respect to
  the project carried out with the grant.
  `(2) UTILITY AND COMPARABILITY OF DATA- The Secretary shall carry out
  activities for the purpose of ensuring the utility and comparability of
  data collected pursuant to paragraph (1).
  `(k) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- With respect to activities for which a grant
  under subsection (a) is authorized to be expended, the Secretary may make
  such a grant only if the applicant involved agrees to maintain expenditures
  of non-Federal amounts for such activities at a level that is not less
  than the average level of such expenditures maintained by the applicant
  for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the applicant
  is applying to receive such a grant.
  `(l) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only if
  an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the application
  contains the plan required in paragraph (2), and the application is in such
  form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances,
  and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out
  this section.
  `(2) SUBMISSION OF PLAN FOR PROGRAM OF GRANTEE-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only
  if the applicant involved submits to the Secretary a plan describing the
  manner in which the applicant will comply with the agreements required
  as a condition of receiving such a grant, including a specification of
  the entities through which activities authorized in subsection (c) will
  be provided.
  `(B) PARTICIPATION OF CERTAIN ENTITIES- The Secretary may make a grant
  under subsection (a) only if the applicant provides assurances satisfactory
  to the Secretary that the plan submitted under subparagraph (A) has been
  prepared in consultation with an appropriate number and variety of--
  `(i) representatives of entities in the geographic area involved that
  provide services for the prevention and control of sexually transmitted
  diseases, including programs to provide to the public information and
  education regarding such diseases; and
  `(ii) representatives of entities in such area that provide family planning
  services.
  `(m) DURATION OF GRANT- The period during which payments are made to an
  entity from a grant under subsection (a) may not exceed 3 years. The
  provision of such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the
  Secretary of the payments and subject to the availability of appropriations
  for the fiscal year involved to make the payments in such year. The
  preceding sentence may not be construed to establish a limitation on the
  number of grants under such subsection that may be made to an entity.
  `(n) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, AND SUPPLIES AND SERVICES IN LIEU OF GRANT FUNDS-
  `(1) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide training and technical
  assistance to grantees under subsection (a) with respect to the planning,
  development, and operation of any program or service carried out under such
  subsection. The Secretary may provide such technical assistance directly
  or through grants or contracts.
  `(2) SUPPLIES, EQUIPMENT, AND EMPLOYEE DETAIL- The Secretary, at the
  request of a recipient of a grant under subsection (a), may reduce the
  amount of such grant by--
  `(A) the fair market value of any supplies or equipment furnished the
  grant recipient; and
  `(B) the amount of the pay, allowances, and travel expenses of any officer
  or employee of the Government when detailed to the grant recipient and
  the amount of any other costs incurred in connection with the detail of
  such officer or employee;
when the furnishing of such supplies or equipment or the detail of such an
officer or employee is for the convenience of and at the request of such
grant recipient and for the purpose of carrying out a program with respect to
which the grant under subsection (a) is made. The amount by which any such
grant is so reduced shall be available for payment by the Secretary of the
costs incurred in furnishing the supplies or equipment, or in detailing the
personnel, on which the reduction of such grant is based, and such amount
shall be deemed as part of the grant and shall be deemed to have been paid
to the grant recipient.
  `(o) EVALUATIONS AND REPORTS BY SECRETARY-
  `(1) EVALUATIONS- The Secretary shall, directly or through contracts with
  public or private entities, provide for annual evaluations of programs
  carried out pursuant to subsection (a) in order to determine the quality
  and effectiveness of the programs.
  `(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date on which
  amounts are first appropriated pursuant to subsection (s), and biennially
  thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and
  Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor
  and Human Resources of the Senate, a report--
  `(A) summarizing the information provided to the Secretary in reports made
  pursuant to subsection (j)(1), including information on the incidence of
  sexually transmitted diseases described in subsection (a); and
  `(B) summarizing evaluations carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) during
  the preceding fiscal year.
  `(p) COORDINATION OF FEDERAL PROGRAMS- The Secretary shall coordinate
  the program carried out under this section with any similar programs
  administered by the Secretary (including coordination between the Director
  of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Director of the
  National Institutes of Health).
  `(q) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
  section, other than subsections (o) and (r), there are authorized to be
  appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
  necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 and 1995.
  `(r) SEPARATE GRANTS FOR RESEARCH ON DELIVERY OF SERVICES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make grants for the purpose of conducting
  research on the manner in which the delivery of services under subsection
  (a) may be improved. The Secretary may make such grants only to grantees
  under such subsection and to public and nonprofit private entities that
  are carrying out programs substantially similar to programs carried out
  under such subsection.
  `(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out
  paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
  be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1995.'.
SEC. 305. BULK PURCHASES OF VACCINES FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS.
  Part D of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b et
  seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following subpart:
`Subpart VIII--Bulk Purchases of Vaccines for Certain Programs
`BULK PURCHASES OF VACCINES FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 340B. (a) AGREEMENTS FOR PURCHASES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of
  the Preventive Health Amendments of 1992, the Secretary, acting through
  the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and in
  consultation with the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services
  Administration, shall enter into negotiations with manufacturers of
  vaccines for the purpose of establishing and maintaining agreements under
  which entities described in paragraph (2) may purchase vaccines from the
  manufacturers at the prices specified in the agreements.
  `(2) RELEVANT ENTITIES- The entities referred to in paragraph (1) are
  entities that provide immunizations against vaccine-preventable diseases
  under the programs established in sections 329, 330, 340, and 340A.
  `(b) NEGOTIATION OF PRICES- In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary
  shall, to the extent practicable, ensure that the prices provided for in
  agreements under such subsection are comparable to the prices provided
  for in agreements negotiated by the Secretary on behalf of grantees under
  section 317(j)(1).
  `(c) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY- In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary,
  in the discretion of the Secretary, may enter into the agreements described
  in such subsection (and may decline to enter into such agreements), may
  modify such agreements, may extend such agreements, and may terminate
  such agreements.
  `(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- This section may not be construed as requiring
  any State to reduce or terminate the supply of vaccines provided by the
  State to any of the entities described in subsection (a)(2).'.
SEC. 306. STATE PROGRAMS REGARDING DATA ON BIRTH DEFECTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Part A of title III of the Public Health Service Act,
  as amended by section 303(b) of this Act, is amended by inserting after
  section 317B the following section:
`COLLECTION OF DATA ON BIRTH DEFECTS
  `SEC. 317C. (a) STATE PROGRAMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, shall encourage States to establish
  or improve programs for the collection and analysis of epidemiological
  data on birth defects.
  `(2) PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may, directly or through grants,
  cooperative agreements, or contracts, provide assistance to States regarding
  the purpose specified in subsection (a).
  `(b) NATIONAL CLEARINGHOUSE- The Secretary, acting through the Director
  of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish and
  maintain a National Information Clearinghouse on Birth Defects to collect
  and disseminate to health professionals and the general public information
  on birth defects, including the prevention of such defects.
  `(c) REPORT- Not later than July 1, 1993, and biennially thereafter, the
  Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
  of Representatives, and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
  Senate, a report describing activities carried out under this section and
  containing any recommendations of the Secretary regarding this section.
  `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
  section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal
  year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years
  1994 and 1995.'.
SEC. 307. SCREENINGS FOR BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER.
  Title XV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300k et seq.) is
  amended by inserting after section 1502 the following section:
`SEC. 1502A. REQUIREMENT REGARDING MEDICAID.
  `The Secretary may not make a grant under section 1501 for a program in
  a State unless the State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act
  for the State includes the screening procedures specified in subparagraphs
  (A) and (B) of section 1503(a)(2) as medical assistance provided under
  the plan.'.
SEC. 308. SCREENINGS FOR PROSTATE CANCER.
  Part A of title III of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by
  section 306 of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 317C the
  following section:
`PREVENTIVE HEALTH MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO PROSTATE CANCER
  `SEC. 317D. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of
  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, may make grants to States
  and local health departments for the purpose of enabling such States and
  departments to carry out programs--
  `(1) to screen men for prostate cancer as a preventive health measure;
  `(2) to provide appropriate referrals for medical treatment of men screened
  pursuant to paragraph (1) and to ensure, to the extent practicable, the
  provision of appropriate follow-up services;
  `(3) to develop and disseminate public information and education programs
  for the detection and control of prostate cancer;
  `(4) to improve the education, training, and skills of health professionals
  (including appropriate allied health professionals) in the detection and
  control of prostate cancer;
  `(5) to establish mechanisms through which the States and such departments
  can monitor the quality of screening procedures for prostate cancer,
  including the interpretation of such procedures; and
  `(6) to evaluate activities conducted under paragraphs (1) through (5)
  through appropriate surveillance or program monitoring activities.
  `(b) Requirement of Matching Funds-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a)
  unless the applicant involved agrees, with respect to the costs to be
  incurred by the applicant in carrying out the purpose described in such
  section, to make available non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind
  under paragraph (2)) toward such costs in an amount equal to not less than
  $1 for each $3 of Federal funds provided in the grant. Such contributions
  may be made directly or through donations from public or private entities.
  `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION-
  `(A) Non-Federal contributions required in  paragraph (1) may be in
  cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including equipment or services (and
  excluding indirect or overhead costs). Amounts provided by the Federal
  Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent
  by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount
  of such non-Federal contributions.
  `(B) In making a determination of the amount of non-Federal contributions
  for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary may include only non-Federal
  contributions in excess of the average amount of non-Federal contributions
  made by the applicant involved toward the purpose described in subsection
  (a) for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which the applicant
  involved is applying to receive a grant under such subsection.
  `(C) In making a determination of the amount of non-Federal contributions
  for purposes of paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, subject to subparagraphs
  (A) and (B) of this paragraph, include any non-Federal amounts expended
  pursuant to title XIX of the Social Security Act by the applicant involved
  toward the purpose described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
  `(c) EDUCATION ON SIGNIFICANCE OF EARLY DETECTION- The Secretary may not
  make a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees
  that, in carrying out subsection (a)(3), the applicant will carry out
  education programs to communicate to men, and to local health officials,
  the significance of the early detection of prostate cancer.
  `(d) REQUIREMENT OF PROVISION OF ALL SERVICES BY DATE CERTAIN- The Secretary
  may not make a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved
  agrees--
  `(1) to ensure that, initially and throughout the period during which
  amounts are received pursuant to the grant, not less than 60 percent of the
  grant is expended to provide each of the services or activities described
  in paragraphs (1) and (2) of such subsection;
  `(2) to ensure that, by the end of any second fiscal year of payments
  pursuant to the grant, each of the services or activities described in
  such subsection is provided; and
  `(3) to ensure that not more than 40 percent of the grant is expended to
  provide the services or activities described in paragraphs (3) through
  (6) of such section.
  `(e) Additional Required Agreements-
  `(1) PRIORITY FOR LOW-INCOME MEN- The Secretary may not make a grant
  under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees that low-income
  men, and men at risk of prostate cancer, will be given priority in the
  provision of services and activities pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2)
  of such subsection.
  `(2) LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF FEES FOR SERVICES- The Secretary may not
  make a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees
  that, if a charge is imposed for the provision of services or activities
  under the grant, such charge--
  `(A) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available
  to the public;
  `(B) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the man involved; and
  `(C) will not be imposed on any man with an income of less than 100 percent
  of the official poverty line, as established by the Director of the Office
  of Management and Budget and revised by the Secretary in accordance with
  section 673(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981.
  `(3) RELATIONSHIP TO ITEMS AND SERVICES UNDER OTHER PROGRAMS- The Secretary
  may not make a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved
  agrees that the grant will not be expended to make payment for any item
  or service to the extent that payment has been made, or can reasonably be
  expected to be made, with respect to such item or service--
  `(A) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy,
  or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or
  `(B) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
  `(4) COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROSTATE CANCER PROGRAMS- The Secretary
  may not make a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved
  agrees that the services and activities funded through the grant will be
  coordinated with other Federal, State, and local prostate cancer programs.
  `(5) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- The Secretary may not make
  a grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees that
  not more than 10 percent of the grant will be expended for administrative
  expenses with respect to the grant.
  `(6) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GRANT- The Secretary may not make a grant under
  subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees that the grant will
  not be expended to provide inpatient hospital services for any individual.
  `(7) RECORDS AND AUDITS- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection
  (a) unless the applicant involved agrees that--
  `(A) the applicant will establish such fiscal control and fund accounting
  procedures as may be necessary to ensure the proper disbursal of, and
  accounting for, amounts received by the applicant under such section; and
  `(B) upon request, the applicant will provide records maintained pursuant
  to paragraph (1) to the Secretary or the Comptroller of the United States
  for purposes of auditing the expenditures by the applicant of the grant.
  `(f) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- The Secretary may not make a grant under
  subsection (a) unless the applicant involved agrees to submit to the
  Secretary such reports as the Secretary may require with respect to
  the grant.
  `(g) DESCRIPTION OF INTENDED USES OF GRANT- The Secretary may not make a
  grant under subsection (a) unless--
  `(1) the applicant involved submits to the Secretary a description of the
  purposes for which the applicant intends to expend the grant;
  `(2) the description identifies the populations, areas, and localities
  in the applicant with a need for the services or activities described in
  subsection (a);
  `(3) the description provides information relating to the services and
  activities to be provided, including a description of the manner in which
  the services and activities will be coordinated with any similar services
  or activities of public or nonprivate entities; and
  `(4) the description provides assurances that the grant funds will be used
  in the most cost-effective manner.
  `(h) REQUIREMENT OF SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may not make a
  grant under subsection (a) unless an application for the grant is submitted
  to the Secretary, the application contains the description of intended uses
  required in subsection (g), and the application is in such form, is made
  in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information
  as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
  `(i) METHOD AND AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- The Secretary shall determine the
  amount of a grant made under subsection (a). Payments under such grants may
  be made in advance on the basis of estimates or by way of reimbursement,
  with necessary adjustments on account of the underpayments or overpayments,
  and in such installments and on such terms and conditions as the Secretary
  finds necessary to carry out the purposes of such grants.
  `(j) Technical Assistance and Provision of Supplies and Services in Lieu
  of Grant Funds-
  `(1) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide training and technical
  assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of any
  program or service carried out pursuant to subsection (a). The Secretary
  may provide such technical assistance directly or through grants to,
  or contracts with, public and private entities.
  `(2) PROVISION OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES IN LIEU OF GRANT FUNDS-
  `(A) Upon the request of an applicant receiving a grant under subsection
  (a), the Secretary may, subject to subparagraph (B), provide supplies,
  equipment, and services for the purpose of aiding the applicant in carrying
  out such section and, for such purpose, may detail to the applicant any
  officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services.
  `(B) With respect to a request described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary
  shall reduce the amount of payments under the grant under subsection (a)
  to the applicant involved by an amount equal to the costs of detailing
  personnel (including pay, allowances, and travel expenses) and the fair
  market value of any supplies, equipment, or services provided by the
  Secretary. The Secretary shall, for the payment of expenses incurred in
  complying with such request, expend the amounts withheld.
  `(k) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `units of local
  government' includes Indian tribes.
  `(l) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are
  authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1996.
  `(2) ALLOCATION FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts appropriated
  under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve not
  more than 20 percent for carrying out subsection (j)(1).'.
SEC. 309. CERTAIN PROGRAMS.-
  (a) MIGRANT HEALTH CENTERS-
  (1) INFANT MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY- Section 329(h)(2) of the Public Health
  Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(h)(2)) is amended--
  (A) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
  `(B) The Secretary may make grants to migrant health centers for the
  purpose of assisting such centers in--
  `(i) providing comprehensive health care and support services for the
  reduction of (I) the incidence of infant mortality, and (II) morbidity
  among children who are less than 3 years of age; and
  `(ii) developing and coordinating service and referral arrangements between
  migrant health centers and other entities for the health management of
  pregnant women and children described in clause (i).'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following subparagraphs:
  `(D) The Secretary may make a grant under subparagraph (B) only if the
  migrant health center involved agrees to expend the grant for the following
  activities with respect to the purpose described in such subparagraph:
  `(i) Primary health services, including prenatal care.
  `(ii) Community education, outreach, and case finding.
  `(iii) Case management services.
  `(iv) Client education, including parenting and child development education.
  `(E) The purposes for which a migrant health center may expend a grant under
  subparagraph (B) include, with respect to the purpose described in such
  subparagraph, substance abuse screening, counseling and referral services,
  and other necessary nonmedical support services, including child care,
  translation services, and housing assistance.
  `(F) The Secretary may make a grant under subparagraph (B) only if the
  migrant health center involved agrees that--
  `(i) the center will coordinate the provision of services under the grant
  to each of the recipients of the services;
  `(ii) such services will be continuous for each such recipient;
  `(iii) the center will provide follow-up services for individuals who are
  referred by the center for services described in subparagraph (E); and
  `(iv) the grant will be expended to supplement, and not supplant, the
  expenditures of the center for primary health services (including prenatal
  care) with respect to the purpose described in such subparagraph.'.
  (2) CERTAIN SERVICES- Section 329(a)(6)(C) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(a)(6)(C)) is amended by inserting after `well child
  services,' the following: `immunizations against vaccine-preventable
  diseases, screenings for elevated blood lead levels,'.
  (3) CERTAIN EXPENDITURES- Section 329(d)(4) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(d)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following
  subparagraph:
  `(C) With respect to amounts described in clauses (i) and (ii) of
  subparagraph (A), the Secretary may not restrict expenditures of such
  amounts by any grantee under paragraph (1)(A) for--
  `(i) repair or minor renovation of the physical plant;
  `(ii) establishment of a financial reserve as required for the furnishing
  of services on a prepaid basis or as needed to cover unanticipated expenses;
  `(iii) interest payments on short-term loans to cover cash shortfalls; or
  `(iv) necessary salary requirements to remain competitive in hiring health
  care practitioners.'.
  (b) COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS-
  (1) INFANT MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY- Section 330(g)(2) of the Public Health
  Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(g)(2)) is amended--
  (A) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
  `(B) The Secretary may make grants to community health centers for the
  purpose of assisting such centers in--
  `(i) providing comprehensive health care and support services for the
  reduction of (I) the incidence of infant mortality, and (II) morbidity
  among children who are less than 3 years of age; and
  `(ii) developing and coordinating service and referral arrangements between
  community health centers and other entities for the health management of
  pregnant women and children described in clause (i).'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following subparagraphs:
  `(D) The Secretary may make a grant under subparagraph (B) only if the
  community health center involved agrees to expend the grant for the following
  activities with respect to the purpose described in such subparagraph:
  `(i) Primary health services, including prenatal care.
  `(ii) Community education, outreach, and case finding.
  `(iii) Case management services.
  `(iv) Client education, including parenting and child development education.
  `(E) The purposes for which a community health center may expend a grant
  under subparagraph (B) include, with respect to the purpose described in such
  subparagraph, substance abuse screening, counseling and referral services,
  and other necessary nonmedical support services, including child care,
  translation services, and housing assistance.
  `(F) The Secretary may make a grant under subparagraph (B) only if the
  community health center involved agrees that--
  `(i) the center will coordinate the provision of services under the grant
  to each of the recipients of the services;
  `(ii) such services will be continuous for each such recipient;
  `(iii) the center will provide follow-up services for individuals who are
  referred by the center for services described in subparagraph (E); and
  `(iv) the grant will be expended to supplement, and not supplant, the
  expenditures of the center for primary health services (including prenatal
  care) with respect to the purpose described in such subparagraph.'.
  (2) CERTAIN SERVICES- Section 330(b)(1)(C) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(b)(1)(C)) is amended by inserting after `well child
  services,' the following: `immunizations against vaccine-preventable
  diseases, screenings for elevated blood lead levels,'.
  (3) CERTAIN EXPENDITURES- Section 330(d)(4) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 254c(d)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following
  subparagraph:
  `(C) With respect to amounts described in clauses (i) and (ii) of
  subparagraph (A), the Secretary may not restrict expenditures of such
  amounts by any grantee under paragraph (1) for--
  `(i) repair or minor renovation of the physical plant;
  `(ii) establishment of a financial reserve as required for the furnishing
  of services on a prepaid basis or as needed to cover unanticipated expenses;
  `(iii) interest payments on short-term loans to cover cash shortfalls; or
  `(iv) necessary salary requirements to remain competitive in hiring health
  care practitioners.'.
  (c) HEALTH CARE FOR THE HOMELESS- Section 340 of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 256) is amended by adding at the end the following subsection:
  `(t) INFANT MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make grants to grantees under subsection
  (a) for the purpose of assisting such grantees in--
  `(A) providing comprehensive health care and support services for the
  reduction of (i) the incidence of infant mortality, and (ii) morbidity
  among children who are less than 3 years of age; and
  `(B) developing and coordinating service and referral arrangements between
  such grantees and other entities for the health management of pregnant
  women and children described in subparagraph (A).
  `(2) REQUIRED ACTIVITIES- The Secretary may make a grant under paragraph
  (1) only if the applicant involved agrees to expend the grant for the
  following activities with respect to the purpose described in such paragraph:
  `(A) Primary health services, including prenatal care.
  `(B) Community education, outreach, and case finding.
  `(C) Case management services.
  `(D) Client education, including parenting and child development education.
  `(3) CERTAIN AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- The purposes for which a grant
  under paragraph (1) may be expended include, with respect to the purpose
  described in such paragraph, substance abuse screening, counseling and
  referral services, and other necessary nonmedical support services,
  including child care, translation services, and housing assistance.
  `(4) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS REGARDING PROVISION OF SERVICES- The Secretary may
  make a grant under paragraph (1) only if the applicant involved agrees that--
  `(A) the applicant will coordinate the provision of services under the
  grant to each of the recipients of the services;
  `(B) such services will be continuous for each such recipient;
  `(C) the applicant will provide follow-up services for individuals who
  are referred by the applicant for services described in paragraph (3); and
  `(D) the grant will be expended to supplement, and not supplant, the
  expenditures of the applicant for primary health services (including
  prenatal care) with respect to the purpose described in paragraph (1).
  `(5) APPLICATION FOR GRANT- The Secretary may make a grant under paragraph
  (1) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and
  the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such
  agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be
  necessary to carry out this subsection.
  `(6) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
  subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994.'.
  (d) HEALTH CARE FOR RESIDENTS OF PUBLIC HOUSING- Section 340A of the Public
  Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 256a) is amended by adding at the end the
  following subsection:
  `(q) INFANT MORTALITY AND MORBIDITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make grants to grantees under subsection
  (a) for the purpose of assisting such grantees in--
  `(A) providing comprehensive health care and support services for the
  reduction of (i) the incidence of infant mortality, and (ii) morbidity
  among children who are less than 3 years of age; and
  `(B) developing and coordinating service and referral arrangements between
  such grantees and other entities for the health management of pregnant
  women and children described in subparagraph (A).
  `(2) REQUIRED ACTIVITIES- The Secretary may make a grant under paragraph
  (1) only if the applicant involved agrees to expend the grant for the
  following activities with respect to the purpose described in such paragraph:
  `(A) Primary health services, including prenatal care.
  `(B) Community education, outreach, and case finding.
  `(C) Case management services.
  `(D) Client education, including parenting and child development education.
  `(3) CERTAIN AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- The purposes for which a grant
  under paragraph (1) may be expended include, with respect to the purpose
  described in such paragraph, substance abuse screening, counseling and
  referral services, and other necessary nonmedical support services,
  including child care, translation services, and housing assistance.
  `(4) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS REGARDING PROVISION OF SERVICES- The Secretary may
  make a grant under paragraph (1) only if the applicant involved agrees that--
  `(A) the applicant will coordinate the provision of services under the
  grant to each of the recipients of the services;
  `(B) such services will be continuous for each such recipient;
  `(C) the applicant will provide follow-up services for individuals who
  are referred by the applicant for services described in paragraph (3); and
  `(D) the grant will be expended to supplement, and not supplant, the
  expenditures of the applicant for primary health services (including
  prenatal care) with respect to the purpose described in paragraph (1).
  `(5) APPLICATION FOR GRANT- The Secretary may make a grant under paragraph
  (1) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and
  the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such
  agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be
  necessary to carry out this subsection.
  `(6) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
  subsection, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994.'.
SEC. 310. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.
  Section 307(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 242l(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (6), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
  `(8) enter into contracts with individuals for the provision of services (as
  defined in section 104 of part 37 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations
  (48 CFR 37.104)) in participating foreign countries, which individuals
  may not be deemed employees of the United States for any purpose.'.
SEC. 311. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
  (a) CERTAIN STUDY- Section 813 of the Health Maintenance Organization
  Amendments of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 300e note) is repealed. The amendment made by
  the preceding sentence shall take effect as if enacted on November 14, 1986.
  (b) HEALTH INFORMATION-
  (1) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Section 1701(a)(11)(C) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 300u(a)(11)(C)) is amended by striking `preventive health
  services,' and inserting the following: `preventive health services (which
  may include information concerning models and standards for insurance
  coverage of such services),'.
  (2) RESEARCH PROGRAMS- Section 1702(a)(6) of the Public Health Service
  Act (42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a)(6)) is amended by inserting before the period
  the following: `(which measures and services may include blood pressure
  screening, cholesterol screening and control, smoking cessation programs,
  substance abuse programs, cancer screening, dietary and nutritional
  counseling, diabetes screening and education, intraocular pressure screening,
  and stress management)'.
SEC. 312. CHANGE IN NAME OF CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL.
  (a) COMPREHENSIVE SMOKING EDUCATION ACT- Section 3(b)(1)(A) of the
  Comprehensive Smoking Education Act (15 U.S.C. 1341(b)(1)(A)) is amended
  by striking out `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (b) EDUCATION AMENDMENTS OF 1978- Section 1121(b)(2) of the Education
  Amendments of 1978 is amended by striking out `Federal Center for Disease
  Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention'.
  (c) VETERANS' BENEFITS AND SERVICES ACT OF 1988- Section 123(b)(1) of the
  Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 (38 U.S.C. 210 note) is amended
  by striking out `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (d) PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT- The Public Health Service Act is amended--
  (1) in section 227 (42 U.S.C. 236) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (2) in section 319(a) (42 U.S.C. 247d(a)) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control
  and Prevention';
  (3) in section 391 (42 U.S.C. 280b) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (4) in section 392 (42 U.S.C. 280b-1) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (5) in section 393 (42 U.S.C. 280b-2) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention';
  (6) in section 430(b)(2)(A)(i) (42 U.S.C. 285c-4(b)(2)(A)(i)) by striking
  out `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (7) in section 442(b)(2)(A) (42 U.S.C. 285d-7(b)(2)(A)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (8) in section 464D(b)(2)(A) (42 U.S.C. 285m-4(b)(2)(A)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (9) in section 494(a) (42 U.S.C. 289c(a)) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control
  and Prevention';
  (10) in section 508(b)(6) (42 U.S.C. 290aa-6(b)(6)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (11) in section 509B(a) (42 U.S.C. 290aa-9(a)) by striking out `Centers
  for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (12) in section 1706(c)(2)(B) (42 U.S.C. 300u-5(c)(2)(B)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (13) in section 2102 (42 U.S.C. 300aa-2) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (14) in section 2119(a)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300aa-19(a)(2)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (15) in section 2126(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300aa-26(b)(2)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (16) in section 2301(b)(4) (42 U.S.C. 300cc(b)(4)) by striking out `Centers
  for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (17) in section 2303 (42 U.S.C. 300cc-2) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (18) in section 2315(b) (42 U.S.C. 300cc-15(b)) by striking out `Centers
  for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (19) in section 2317 (42 U.S.C. 300cc-17) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (20) in section 2320 (42 U.S.C. 300cc-20) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (21) in section 2341(a) (42 U.S.C. 300cc-31(a)) by striking out `Centers
  for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (22) in section 2521 (42 U.S.C. 300ee-31) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (23) in section 2522(a) (42 U.S.C. 300ee-32(a)) by striking out `Centers
  for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (24) in section 2524(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 300ee-34(b)(2)) by striking out
  `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention';
  (25) in section 2601 by striking out `Centers for Disease Control' each
  place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention';
  (26) in section 2602(a)(1) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (27) in section 2603(a)(3)(B)(i) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention';
  (28) in section 2607(2) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (29) in section 2617(d)(3)(A) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (30) in section 2618(c)(1) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (31) in section 2641(a) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (32) in section 2643(c)(1)(A) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (33) in section 2649 by striking out `Centers for Disease Control' each
  place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention'; and
  (34) in section 2675(a) by striking out `Centers for Disease Control'
  each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (e) HEALTH OMNIBUS PROGRAMS EXTENSION OF 1988- The Health Omnibus Programs
  Extension of 1988 is amended--
  (1) in section 161 (42 U.S.C. 241 note) by striking out `Centers for
  Disease Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention';
  (2) in section 252 (42 U.S.C. 300ee-1) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention'; and
  (3) in section 253 (42 U.S.C. 300ee-2) by striking out `Centers for Disease
  Control' each place that such occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (f) HEALTH RESEARCH EXTENSION ACT OF 1985- Section 5(b)(1)(G) of the
  Health Research Extension Act of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 281 note) is amended by
  striking out `Centers for Disease Control' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (g) PAINT POISONING PREVENTION- Section 501(3)(B)(i) of Public Law 91-695 (42
  U.S.C. 4841(3)(B)(i)) is amended by striking out `Center for Disease Control'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (h) COMPREHENSIVE ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE, COMPENSATION AND LIABILITY
  ACT OF 1980- Section 104 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
  Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9604) is amended by
  striking out `Centers for Disease Control' each place that such occurs
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Centers for Disease Control and Prevention'.
  (i) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- The amendments made by this section may not be
  construed as prohibiting the Director of the Centers for Disease Control
  and Prevention from utilizing for official purposes the term `CDC' as an
  acronym for such Centers.
SEC. 313. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Health
  Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992 (the enactment of the
  bill, H.R. 3508, of the One Hundred Second Congress), is amended--
  (1) in section 735(b), by striking `smaller: the amount requested in its
  application; or an amount which' and inserting `smaller: (A) the amount
  requested in its application; or (B) an amount which';
  (2) in section 746--
  (A) in subsection (a)(2)(A)--
  (i) in clause (i), by striking `Health Professionals' and inserting
  `Health Professions'; and
  (ii) in the matter after and below clause (ii), by moving the matter two
  ems to the right; and
  (B) in subsection (i)(1)--
  (i) by moving subparagraph (A) two ems to the right; and
  (ii) by moving subparagraphs (B) and (C) four ems to the right;
  (3) in section 748(a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
  `hospital' and inserting `hospitals';
  (4) in section 776(a)(3), by striking `no grant' and inserting `No grant';
  (5) in section 791(b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `763' and inserting `763, 766, or 767'; and
  (B) by striking `752(a)' and inserting `798(f)(2)';
  (6) in section 793(c)(2), by striking `subparts I and II of part D,'
  and inserting `this title,';
  (7) in section 795(a)(3), by striking `in the case' and inserting `In
  the case';
  (8) in section 798(d), by inserting `of the United States' after `Statutes';
  (9) in section 820(d)(5)(A), by striking `nursing respect to' and inserting
  `nursing with respect to';
  (10) in section 860(d), by inserting `827,' after `822,'; and
  (11) in part B of title VIII, by striking subpart III and redesignating
  subpart IV as subpart III.
  (b) RELATED TECHNICAL CORRECTION- The Health Professions Education Extension
  Amendments of 1992 (the enactment of the bill, H.R. 3508, of the One Hundred
  Second Congress) is amended in section 301(a)(2) by striking `voluntary'
  and inserting  `voluntarily'.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments described in this section are made,
  and take effect, immediately after the enactment of the bill, H.R. 3508,
  of the One Hundred Second Congress.
SEC. 314. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS REGARDING VACCINE COMPENSATION.
  Section 2115(j) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300aa-15(j))
  is amended by striking `$80,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,' and inserting
  `$110,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.