 
--H.R.5343--
H.R.5343
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To make technical amendments to the Fair Packaging and Labeling Act with
respect to its treatment of the SI metric system, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 The Fair Packaging and Labeling Act (15 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in sections 4(a)(2), (4), and (5), 4(b), and 5(c)(1), by striking
 `weight' and inserting in lieu thereof `weight or mass';
 (2) in sections 4(a)(5) and 5(d), by striking `weights' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `weights or masses';
 (3) in section 4(a)(2), by inserting `, using the most appropriate units of
 both the customary inch/pound system of measure, as provided in paragraph
 (3) of this subsection, and, except as provided in paragraph (3)(A)(ii)
 or paragraph (6) of this subsection, the SI metric system' after `panel of
 that label';
 (4) in section 4(a)(3)(A)--
 (A) by striking `containing less than four pounds' and all that follows
 through `pounds for weight units' in clause (i) and inserting in lieu thereof
 `labeled in terms of weight, shall be expressed in pounds';
 (B) by striking `two' in clause (ii) and inserting in lieu thereof `three';
 (C) by inserting `and is not required to, but may, include a statement in
 terms of the SI metric system carried out to not more than three decimal
 places' after `decimal places' in clause (ii);
 (D) by striking `both in terms of inches and' in clause (iii) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `in terms of'; and
 (E) by striking `both in terms of square inches and' in clause (iv) and
 inserting in lieu thereof `in terms of'; and
 (5) in section 4(a), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) The requirement of paragraph (2) that the statement of net quantity
 of contents include a statement in terms of the SI metric system shall not
 apply to foods that are packaged at the retail store level.'.
SEC. 2. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by section 1 shall take effect on February 14,
 1994. The amendments made by section 1 shall have no effect on the sale or
 distribution of products whose labels have been printed before such effective
 date. Nothing in the amendments made by section 1 shall apply to unit pricing,
 advertising, recipe programs, nutrition labeling, or other general pricing
 information. Nothing in the amendments made by section 1 shall be construed to
 require changes in package size or to affect in any way the size of packages.
SEC. 3. REPEAL.
 Section 107 of the American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991 is repealed.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.