 
--H.R.476--
H.R.476
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To designate certain rivers in the State of Michigan as components of the
National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Michigan Scenic Rivers Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the State of Michigan possesses many outstanding free-flowing rivers which
 with their adjacent lands have resource values of national significance,
 such as outstanding wildlife and fisheries, ecological and recreational
 values, and historic and prehistoric sites;
 (2) many of these rivers have been found to be eligible for inclusion in the
 National Wild and Scenic Rivers System by the United States Forest Service
 while others possess outstanding values that make them eligible for wild
 and scenic river designation; and
 (3) the conservation of these river areas and their outstanding natural,
 cultural, and recreational values is important to the heritage of Michigan
 and to its tourism and outdoor recreation industry and long-term economic
 development.
SEC. 3. WILD, SCENIC, AND RECREATIONAL RIVER DESIGNATION.
 (a) Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a))
 is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:
 `( ) BEAR CREEK, MICHIGAN- The 6.5-mile segment from Coates Highway to the
 Manistee River, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a
 scenic river.
 `( ) BLACK, MICHIGAN- The 14-mile segment from the Ottawa National Forest
 boundary to Lake Superior, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 as a scenic river.
 `( ) CARP, MICHIGAN- The 27.8-mile segment from the west section line
 of section 30, township 43 north, range 5 west, to Lake Huron, to be
 administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following classes:
 `(A) The 2.3-mile segment from the west section line of section 30, township
 43 north, range 5 west, to Forest Development Road 3458 in section 32,
 township 43 north, range 5 west, as a scenic river.
 `(B) The 6.5-mile segment from the Forest Development Road 3458 in section
 32, township 43 north, range 5 west, to Michigan State Highway 123, as a
 scenic river.
 `(C) The 7.5-mile segment from Michigan State Highway 123 to one quarter
 of a mile upstream from Forest Development Road 3119, as a wild river.
 `(D) The 0.5-mile segment from one quarter of a mile upstream of Forest
 Development Road 3119 to one quarter mile downstream of Forest Development
 Road 3119, as a scenic river.
 `(E) The 4.9-mile segment from one quarter of a mile downstream of Forest
 Development Road 3119 to McDonald Rapids, as a wild river.
 `(F) The 6.1-mile segment from McDonald Rapids to Lake Huron, as a
 recreational river.
 `( ) INDIAN, MICHIGAN- The 51-mile segment from Hovey Lake to Indian Lake
 to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following classes:
 `(A) The 12-mile segment from Hovey Lake to Fish Lake, as a scenic river.
 `(B) The 39-mile segment from Fish Lake to Indian Lake, as a recreational
 river.
 `( ) MANISTEE, MICHIGAN- The 26-mile segment from the Michigan DNR boat ramp
 below Tippy Dam to the Michigan State Highway 55 bridge, to be administered
 by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river.
 `( ) ONTONAGON, MICHIGAN- Segments of certain tributaries, totaling 157.4
 miles, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as follows:
 `(A) The 46-mile segment of the East Branch Ontonagon from its origin at
 Spring Lake to the Ottawa National Forest boundary in the following classes:
 `(i) The 20.5-mile segment from its origin at Spring Lake to its confluence
 with an unnamed stream in section 30, township 48 north, range 37 west,
 as a recreational river.
 `(ii) The 25.5-mile segment from its confluence with an unnamed stream in
 section 30, township 48 north, range 37 west, to the Ottawa National Forest
 boundary, as a wild river.
 `(B) The 59.4-mile segment of the Middle Branch Ontonagon, from its origin
 at Crooked Lake to the northern boundary of the Ottawa National Forest in
 the following classes:
 `(i) The 20-mile segment from its origin at Crooked Lake to Burned Dam,
 as a recreational river.
 `(ii) The 8-mile segment from Burned Dam to Bond Falls Flowage, as a
 scenic river.
 `(iii) The 8-mile segment from Bond Falls to Agate Falls, as a recreational
 river.
 `(iv) The 6-mile segment from Agate Falls to Trout Creek, as a scenic river.
 `(v) The 17.4-mile segment from Trout Creek to the northern boundary of
 the Ottawa National Forest, as a wild river.
 `(C) The 37-mile segment of the Cisco Branch Ontonagon from its origin at
 Cisco Lake Dam to its confluence with Ten-Mile Creek south of Ewen in the
 following classes:
 `(i) The 10-mile segment from the origin of Cisco Branch Ontonagon at Cisco
 Lake Dam to the County Road 527 crossing, as a recreational river.
 `(ii) The 27-mile segment from the Forest Development Road 527 crossing to
 the confluence of the Cisco Branch and Ten-Mile Creek, as a scenic river.
 `(D) The 15-mile segment of the West Branch Ontonagon from its confluence
 with Cascade Falls to Victoria Reservoir, in the following classes:
 `(i) The 10.5-mile segment from its confluence with Cascade Falls to its
 confluence with the South Branch Ontonagon, as a recreational river.
 `(ii) The 4.5-mile segment from its confluence with the South Branch
 Ontonagon to Victoria Reservoir, as a recreational river.
Nothwithstanding any limitation contained in this Act, the Secretary is
authorized to acquire lands and interests in lands which, as of August 1,
1990, were owned by Upper Peninsula Energy Corporation, and notwithstanding
any such limitation, such lands shall be retained and managed by the Secretary
as part of the Ottawa National Forest, and those lands so acquired which are
within the boundaries of any segment designated under this paragraph shall
be retained and managed pursuant to this Act.
 `( ) PAINT, MICHIGAN- Segments of the mainstream and certain tributaries,
 totaling 51 miles, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 as follows:
 `(A) The 6-mile segment of the main stem from the confluence of the North
 and South Branches Paint to the Ottawa National Forest boundary, as a
 recreational river.
 `(B) The 17-mile segment of the North Branch Paint from its origin at Mallard
 Lake to its confluence with the South Branch Paint, as a recreational river.
 `(C) The 28-mile segment of the South Branch Paint from its origin at
 Paint River Springs to its confluence with the North Branch Paint, as a
 recreational river.
 `( ) PINE, MICHIGAN- The 25-mile segment from Lincoln Bridge to the
 east 1/16th line of section 16, township 21 north, range 13 west, to be
 administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a scenic river.
 `( ) PRESQUE ISLE, MICHIGAN- Segments of the mainstream and certain
 tributaries, totaling 57 miles, to be administered by the Secretary of
 Agriculture as follows:
 `(A) The 23-mile segment of the mainstream, from the confluence of the
 East and West Branches of Presque Isle to Minnewawa Falls, to be classified
 as follows:
 `(i) The 17-mile segment from the confluence of the East and West Branches
 Presque Isle to Michigan State Highway 28, as a recreational river.
 `(ii) The 6-mile segment from Michigan State Highway 28 to Minnewawa Falls,
 as a scenic river.
 `(B) The 14-mile segment of the East Branch Presque Isle within the Ottawa
 National Forest, as a recreational river.
 `(C) The 7-mile segment of the South Branch Presque Isle within the Ottawa
 National Forest, as a recreational river.
 `(D) The 13-mile segment of the West Branch Presque Isle within the Ottawa
 National Forest, as a scenic river.
 `( ) STURGEON, HIAWATHA NATIONAL FOREST, MICHIGAN- The 43.9-mile segment
 from the north line of section 26, township 43 north, range 19 west, to
 Lake Michigan, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in the
 following classes:
 `(A) The 21.7-mile segment from the north line of section 26, township 43
 north, range 19 west, to Forest Highway 13 as a scenic river.
 `(B) The 22.2-mile segment from Forest Highway 13 to Lake Michigan as a
 recreational river.
 `( ) STURGEON, OTTAWA NATIONAL FOREST, MICHIGAN- The 25-mile segment from
 its entry into the Ottawa National Forest to the northern boundary of the
 Ottawa National Forest, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 in the following classes:
 `(A) The 16.5-mile segment from its entry into the Ottawa National Forest
 to Prickett Lake, as a wild river.
 `(B) The 8.5-mile segment from the outlet of Prickett Lake Dam to the
 northern boundary of the Ottawa National Forest, as a scenic river.
 `( ) EAST BRANCH OF THE TAHQUAMENON, MICHIGAN- The 13.2-mile segment from
 its origin in section 8, township 45 north, range 5 west, to the Hiawatha
 National Forest boundary, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 in the following classes:
 `(A) The 10-mile segment from its origin in section 8, township 45 north,
 range 5 west, to the center of section 20, township 46 north, range 6 west,
 as a recreational river.
 `(B) The 3.2-mile segment from the center of section 20, township 46 north,
 range 6 west, to the boundary of the Hiawatha National Forest, as a wild
 river.
 `( ) WHITEFISH, MICHIGAN- Segments of the mainstream and certain tributaries,
 totaling 33.6 miles, to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
 as follows:
 `(A) The 11.1-mile segment of the mainstream from its confluence with the East
 and West Branches of the Whitefish to Lake Michigan in the following classes:
 `(i) The 9-mile segment from its confluence with the East and West Branches
 of the Whitefish to the center of section 16, township 41 north, range 21
 west, as a scenic river.
 `(ii) The 2.1-mile segment from the center of section 16, township 41 north,
 range 21 west, to Lake Michigan, as a recreational river.
 `(B) The 15-mile segment of the East Branch Whitefish from the crossing
 of County Road 003 in section 6, township 44 north, range 20 west, to its
 confluence with the West Branch Whitefish, as a scenic river.
 `(C) The 7.5-mile segment of the West Branch Whitefish from County Road
 444 to its confluence with the East Branch Whitefish, as a scenic river.
 `( ) YELLOW DOG, MICHIGAN- The 4-mile segment from its origin at the outlet
 of Bulldog Lake Dam to the boundary of the Ottawa National Forest, to be
 administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a wild river.'.
SEC. 4. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER STUDIES.
 (a) STUDY RIVERS- Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
 U.S.C. 1276(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the
 end thereof:
 `( ) BRULE, MICHIGAN AND WISCONSIN- The 33-mile segment from Brule Lake
 in the northeast quarter of section 15, township 41 north, range 13 east,
 to the National Forest boundary at the southeast quarter of section 31,
 township 41 north, range 17 east.
 `( ) CARP, MICHIGAN- The 7.6-mile segment from its origin at the confluence
 of the outlets of Frenchman Lake and Carp Lake in section 26, township 44
 north, range 6 west, to the west section line of section 30, township 43
 north, range 5 west.
 `( ) LITTLE MANISTEE, MICHIGAN- The 42-mile segment within the Huron-Manistee
 National Forest.
 `( ) WHITE, MICHIGAN- The 75.4-mile segment within the Huron-Manistee
 National Forest as follows:
 `(A) The 30.8-mile segment of the main stem from U.S. 31 to the Huron-Manistee
 National Forest boundary at the north line of section 2, township 13 north,
 range 15 west, 1.5 miles southwest of Hesperia.
 `(B) The 18.9-mile segment of the South Branch White from the Huron-Manistee
 National Forest boundary east of Hesperia at the west line of section 22,
 township 14 north, range 14 west, to Echo Drive, section 6, township 13
 north, range 12 west.
 `(C) The 25.7-mile segment of the North Branch White from its confluence
 with the South Branch White in section 25, township 13 north, range 16 west,
 to McLaren Lake in section 11, township 14 north, range 15 west.
 `( ) ONTONAGON, MICHIGAN- The 32-mile segment of the Ontonagon as follows:
 `(A) The 12-mile segment of the West Branch from the Michigan State Highway
 28 crossing to Cascade Falls.
 `(B) The 20-mile segment of the South Branch from the confluence of the Cisco
 Branch and Tenmile Creek to the confluence with the West Branch Ontonagon.
 `( ) PAINT, MICHIGAN- The 70-mile segment as follows:
 `(A) 34 miles of the mainstream beginning at the eastern boundary of the
 Ottawa National Forest in section 1, township 44 north, range 35 west,
 to the city of Crystal Falls.
 `(B) 15 miles of the mainstream of the Net River from its confluence with
 the east and west branches to its confluence with the mainstream of the
 Paint River.
 `(C) 15 miles of the east branch of the Net River from its source in section
 8, township 47 north, range 32 west, to its confluence with the mainstream
 of the Net River in section 24, township 46 north, range 34 west.
 `(D) 14 miles of the west branch of the Net River from its source in section
 35, township 48 north, range 34 west, to its confluence with the mainstream
 of the Net River in section 24, township 46 north, range 34 west.
 `( ) PRESQUE ISLE, MICHIGAN- The 13-mile segment of the mainstream from
 Minnewawa Falls to Lake Superior.
 `( ) STURGEON, OTTAWA NATIONAL FOREST, MICHIGAN- The 36-mile segment of the
 mainstream from the source at Wagner Lake in section 13, township 49 north,
 range 31 west, to the eastern boundary of the Ottawa National Forest in
 section 12, township 48 north, range 35 west.
 `( ) STURGEON, HIAWATHA NATIONAL FOREST, MICHIGAN- The 18.1-mile segment
 from Sixteen Mile Lake to the north line of section 26, township 43 north,
 range 19 west.
 `( ) TAHQUAMENON, MICHIGAN- The 103.5-mile segment as follows--
 `(A) the 90-mile segment of the mainstream beginning at the source in section
 21, township 47 north, range 12 west, to the mouth at Whitefish Bay; and
 `(B) the 13.5-mile segment of the east branch from the western boundary of
 the Hiawatha National Forest in section 19, township 46 north, range 6 west,
 to its confluence with the mainstream.
 `( ) WHITEFISH, MICHIGAN- The 26-mile segment of the West Branch Whitefish
 from its source in section 26, township 46 north, range 23 west, to County
 Road 444.'.
 (b) STUDY PROVISIONS- Section  5(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)) is
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(11) The study of segments of the Brule, Carp, Little Manistee, White,
 Paint, Presque Isle, Ontonagon, Sturgeon (Hiawatha), Sturgeon (Ottawa),
 Whitefish, and Tahquamenon Rivers in Michigan under subsection (a) shall be
 completed by the Secretary of Agriculture and the report submitted thereon
 not later than at the end of the third fiscal year beginning after the date
 of enactment of this paragraph. For purposes of such river studies, the
 Secretary shall consult with each River Study Committee authorized under
 section 5 of the Michigan Scenic Rivers Act of 1990, and shall encourage
 public participation and involvement through hearings, workshops, and such
 other means as are necessary to be effective.'.
SEC. 5. RIVER STUDY COMMITTEES.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND MEMBERSHIP- At the earliest practicable date
 following the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture
 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `Secretary'), in consultation
 with the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, shall establish for each
 river identified in section 4 a River Study Committee (hereinafter in this
 section referred to as `Committee'). Membership on each Committee shall
 consist of members appointed as follows:
 (1) Two members appointed by the appropriate Secretary.
 (2) Two members appointed by the Secretary from recommendations made by the
 Governor of the State of Michigan from the Department of Natural Resources.
 (3) Two members appointed by the Secretary from among representatives of
 local or State conservation and environmental groups.
 (4) One member appointed by the Secretary from among representatives of
 each of the towns included in the study area.
 (5) Two members appointed by the Secretary from commercial timber interests
 in the State of Michigan.
 (6) One nonvoting member who shall be an employee of the Forest Service.
 (b) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS- (1) A vacancy in a Committee shall be filled
 in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (2) The Chair of a Committee shall be elected by the members of the Committee.
 (3) The members of the Committee who are not full-time officers or employees
 of the United States shall serve without compensation.
 (c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE SECRETARY- The Secretary shall provide
 such technical and financial assistance to each such Committee as the
 Secretary deems necessary.
 (d) STATE AND LOCAL SERVICES- Each such Committee may accept services and
 other assistance from State and local governments.
 (e) STUDY PROCESS- Each River Study Committee shall advise the Secretary
 in the preparation of the report to Congress required by section 4 of the
 Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1275(a)) for the rivers specified in
 section 4 of this Act.
 (f) TERMINATION- Each such Committee shall terminate upon submission of
 the report to Congress referred to in subsection (e) for the river concerned.
 (g) BRULE RIVER STUDY COMMITTEE- For the purposes of the Brule River Study
 Committee established pursuant to subsection (a), any reference in this
 section to the State of Michigan shall be deemed to be a reference to the
 State of Michigan and the State of Wisconsin.
SEC. 6. MISCELLANEOUS.
 (a) HUNTING, FISHING, AND TRAPPING- Consistent with section 13(a) of the
 Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271-1287), nothing in this Act
 shall be construed to enlarge, diminish, or modify the jurisdiction or
 responsibilities of the State of Michigan with respect to fish and wildlife,
 including hunting, fishing, and trapping on any lands administered by the
 Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to this Act.
 (b) SEA LAMPREY CONTROL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 the installation and operation of facilities or other activities within or
 outside the boundaries of those river segments designated by this Act for the
 control of the lamprey eel shall be permitted subject to such restrictions and
 conditions as the Secretary of Agriculture may prescribe for the protection
 of water quality and other values of the river, including the wild and
 scenic characteristics of the river: Provided, That the Secretary shall
 determine in the river management plan for each such designated river that
 such facilities or activities are necessary for control of the lamprey eel.
 (c) ACCESS- The Secretary shall maintain traditional public access to
 the river segments designated by this Act, except that the Secretary,
 in consultation with the Director of the Michigan Department of Natural
 Resources, shall provide in the river management plan for each designated
 river segment for maintenance, closure, relocation, stabilization,
 improvements, or other appropriate adjustments as may be necessary for the
 management of such river segments.
 (d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this Act shall be construed as enlarging,
 diminishing, or modifying the limitations on the acquisition of lands within
 a designated river segment contained in section 6(b) of the Wild and Scenic
 Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1277(b)).
SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry
 out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.