 
--H.R.5013--
H.R.5013
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To promote the conservation of wild exotic birds, to provide for the Great
Lakes Fish and Wildlife Tissue Bank, to reauthorize the Fish and Wildlife
Conservation Act of 1980, to reauthorize the African Elephant Conservation
Act, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--WILD EXOTIC BIRD CONSERVATION
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Wild Bird Conservation Act of 1992'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds the following:
  (1) In addition to habitat loss and local use, the international pet trade
  in wild-caught exotic birds is contributing to the decline of species in the
  wild, and the mortality associated with the trade remains unacceptably high.
  (2) The United States, as the world's largest importer of exotic birds and
  as a Party to the Convention, should play a substantial role in finding
  effective solutions to these problems, including assisting countries of
  origin in implementing programs of wild bird conservation, and ensuring
  that the market in the United States for exotic birds does not operate to
  the detriment of the survival of species in the wild.
  (3) Sustainable utilization of exotic birds has the potential to create
  economic value in them and their habitats, which will contribute to their
  conservation and promote the maintenance of biological diversity generally.
  (4) Utilization of exotic birds that is not sustainable should not be
  allowed.
  (5) Broad international attention has focused on the serious conservation
  and welfare problems which currently exist in the trade in wild-caught
  animals, including exotic birds.
  (6) Many countries have chosen not to export their wild birds for the
  pet trade. Their decisions should be respected and their efforts should
  be supported.
  (7) Several countries that allow for the export of their wild birds often
  lack the means to develop or effectively implement scientifically based
  management plans, and these countries should be assisted in developing
  and implementing management plans to enable them to ensure that their wild
  bird trade is conducted humanely and at sustainable levels.
  (8) The major exotic bird exporting countries are Parties to the Convention.
  (9) The Convention recognizes that trade in species that are threatened with
  extinction, or that may become so, should be subject to strict regulation.
  (10) The necessary population assessments, monitoring programs, and
  appropriate remedial measures for species listed in Appendix II of the
  Convention are not always being undertaken in order to maintain species
  at levels above which they might become eligible for inclusion in Appendix
  I of the Convention.
  (11) Resolutions adopted pursuant to the Convention recommend that the
  Parties to the Convention take appropriate measures regarding trade in
  species of exotic birds that have significantly high mortality rates in
  transport, including suspension of trade for commercial purposes between
  Parties when appropriate.
  (12) Article XIV provides that the Convention in no way affects the right
  of any Party to the Convention to adopt stricter domestic measures for the
  regulation of trade in all species, whether or not listed in an Appendix
  to the Convention.
  (13) The United States prohibits the export of all birds native to the
  United States that are caught in the wild.
  (14) This title provides a series of nondiscriminatory measures that are
  necessary for the conservation of exotic birds, and furthers the obligations
  of the United States under the Convention.
SEC. 103. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
  The purpose of this title is to promote the conservation of exotic birds by--
  (1) assisting wild bird conservation and management programs in the
  countries of origin of wild birds;
  (2) ensuring that all trade in species of exotic birds involving the United
  States is biologically sustainable and is not detrimental to the species;
  (3) limiting or prohibiting imports of exotic birds when necessary to
  ensure that--
  (A) wild exotic bird populations are not harmed by removal of exotic birds
  from the wild for the trade; or
  (B) exotic birds in trade are not subject to inhumane treatment; and
  (4) encouraging and supporting effective implementation of the Convention.
SEC. 104. DEFINITIONS.
  In this title--
  (1) The term `Convention' means the Convention on International Trade in
  Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, as amended, signed in Washington
  on March 3, 1973, and the Appendices thereto.
  (2) The term `exotic bird'--
  (A) means any live or dead member of the class Aves that is not indigenous
  to the 50 States or the District of Columbia, including any egg or offspring
  thereof; and
  (B) does not include--
  (i) domestic poultry, dead sport-hunted birds, dead museum specimens,
  dead scientific specimens, or products manufactured from such birds; or
  (ii) birds in the following families: Phasianidae, Numididae, Cracidae,
  Meleagrididae, Megapodiidae, Anatidae, Struthionidae, Rheidae, Dromaiinae,
  and Gruidae.
  (3) Each of the terms `import' and `importation' means to land on, bring
  into, or introduce into, or attempt to land on, bring into, or introduce
  into, any place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
  (4) The term `person' means an individual, corporation, partnership, trust,
  association, or any other private entity; or any officer, employee, agent,
  department, or instrumentality of the Federal Government, of any State,
  municipality, or political subdivision of a State, or of any foreign
  government; any State, municipality, or political subdivision of a State;
  or any other entity subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
  (5) The term `qualifying facility' means an exotic bird breeding facility
  that is included in a list published by the Secretary under section 107.
  (6) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior or a designee
  of the Secretary of the Interior.
  (7) The term `species'--
  (A) means any species, any subspecies, or any distinct population segment
  of a species or subspecies; and
  (B) includes hybrids of any species or subspecies.
  (8) The term `United States' means the 50 States, the District of Columbia,
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory
  of the Pacific Islands.
SEC. 105. MORATORIA ON IMPORTS OF EXOTIC BIRDS COVERED BY CONVENTION.
  (a) IMMEDIATE MORATORIUM-
  (1) ESTABLISHMENT OF MORATORIUM- The importation of any exotic bird of a
  species identified as a category B species in the report entitled `Report
  of the Animals Committee', adopted by the 8th meeting of the Conference
  of the Parties to the Convention, is prohibited.
  (2) TERMINATION OF MORATORIUM- A species of exotic birds shall be subject
  to the prohibition on importation established by paragraph (1) until the
  Secretary, after notice and an opportunity for public comment--
  (A) determines that appropriate remedial measures have been taken in the
  countries of origin for that species, so as to eliminate the threat of
  trade to the conservation of the species; and
  (B) makes the findings described in section 106(c) for the species and
  includes the species in the list published under section 106(a).
  (b) EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND IMPORTS OF LISTED SPECIES-
  (1) AUTHORITY TO SUSPEND IMPORTS- The Secretary is authorized to suspend
  the importation of exotic birds of any species that is listed in any
  Appendix to the Convention, and if applicable remove the species from the
  list under section 106(a), if the Secretary determines that--
  (A)(i) trade in that species is detrimental to the species,
  (ii) there is not sufficient information available on which to base a
  judgment that the species is not detrimentally affected by trade in that
  species, or
  (iii) remedial measures have been recommended by the Standing Committee
  of the Convention that have not been implemented; and
  (B) the suspension might be necessary for the conservation of the species.
  (2) TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION- A species of exotic birds shall be subject
  to a suspension of importation under paragraph (1) until the Secretary,
  after notice and an opportunity for public comment, makes the findings
  described in section 106(c) and includes the species in the list published
  under section 106(a).
  (c) MORATORIUM AFTER ONE YEAR FOR OTHER SPECIES LISTED IN APPENDICES-
  Effective on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the importation of any exotic bird of a species that is listed
  in any Appendix to the Convention is prohibited unless the Secretary makes
  the findings described in section 106(c) and includes the species in the
  list published under section 106(a).
  (d) LIMITATION ON NUMBER IMPORTED DURING FIRST YEAR- Notwithstanding any
  other provision of this Act, the Secretary shall prohibit the importation,
  during the 1-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this
  Act, of exotic birds of each species that is listed under any Appendix to
  the Convention in excess of the number of that species that were imported
  during the most recent year for which the Secretary has complete import data.
SEC. 106. LIST OF APPROVED SPECIES.
  (a) LISTING-
  (1) IN GENERAL- One year after the date of enactment of this Act
  and periodically thereafter, the Secretary shall, after notice and an
  opportunity for public comment, publish in the Federal Register a list of
  species of exotic birds that are listed in an Appendix to the Convention
  and that are not subject to a prohibition or suspension of importation
  otherwise applicable under section 105 (a), (b), or (c).
  (2) MANNER OF LISTING- The Secretary shall list a species under paragraph
  (1) with respect to--
  (A) the countries of origin from which the species may be imported; and
  (B) if appropriate, the qualifying facilities in those countries from
  which the species may be imported.
  (3) BASES FOR DETERMINATIONS- In making a determination required under
  this subsection, the Secretary shall--
  (A) use the best scientific information available; and
  (B) consider the adequacy of regulatory and enforcement mechanisms in all
  countries of origin for the species, including such mechanisms for control
  of illegal trade.
  (b) CAPTIVE BRED SPECIES- The Secretary shall include a species of exotic
  birds in the list under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that--
  (1) the species is regularly bred in captivity and no wild-caught birds
  of the species are in trade; or
  (2) the species is bred in a qualifying facility.
  (c) NON-CAPTIVE BRED SPECIES- The Secretary shall include in the list under
  subsection (a) a species of exotic birds that is listed in an Appendix to
  the Convention if the Secretary finds the Convention is being effectively
  implemented with respect to that species because of each of the following:
  (1) Each country of origin for which the species is listed is effectively
  implementing the Convention, particularly with respect to--
  (A) the establishment of a scientific authority or other equivalent
  authority;
  (B) the requirements of Article IV of the Convention with respect to that
  species; and
  (C) remedial measures recommended by the Parties to the Convention with
  respect to that species.
  (2) A scientifically-based management plan for the species has been
  developed which--
  (A) provides for the conservation of the species and its habitat and
  includes incentives for conservation;
  (B) ensures that the use of the species is biologically sustainable and
  maintained throughout the range of the species in the country to which the
  plan applies at a level that is consistent with the role of the species
  in the ecosystem and is well above the level at which the species might
  become threatened with extinction; and
  (C) addresses factors relevant to the conservation of the species, including
  illegal trade, domestic trade, subsistence use, disease, and habitat loss.
  (3) The management plan is implemented and enforced.
  (4) The methods of capture, transport, and maintenance of the species
  minimizes the risk of injury or damage to health, including inhumane
  treatment.
SEC. 107. QUALIFYING FACILITIES.
  (a) DETERMINATION- Upon submission of a petition under section 110 by
  any person, the Secretary shall determine whether an exotic bird breeding
  facility is a qualifying facility. Such determination shall be effective
  for a period specified by the Secretary, which may not exceed 3 years. The
  Secretary shall, from time to time, publish a list of qualifying facilities
  in the Federal Register.
  (b) CRITERIA- The Secretary shall determine under subsection (a) that a
  facility is a qualifying facility for a species of exotic birds if the
  Secretary finds each of the following:
  (1) The facility has demonstrated the capability of producing captive bred
  birds of the species in the numbers to be imported into the United States
  from that facility.
  (2) The facility is operated in a manner that is not detrimental to the
  survival of the species in the wild.
  (3) The facility is operated in a humane manner.
  (4) The appropriate governmental authority of the country in which the
  facility is located has certified in writing, and the Secretary is satisfied,
  that the facility has the capability of breeding the species in captivity.
  (5) The country in which the facility is located is a Party to the
  Convention.
  (6) All birds exported from the facility are bred at the facility.
SEC. 108. MORATORIA FOR SPECIES NOT COVERED BY CONVENTION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall--
  (1) review periodically the trade in species of exotic birds that are not
  listed in any Appendix to the Convention; and
  (2) after notice and an opportunity for public comment, establish a
  moratorium or quota on--
  (A) importation of any species of exotic birds from one or more countries
  of origin for the species, if the Secretary determines that--
  (i) the findings described in section 106(c) (2), (3), and (4) cannot be
  made with respect to the species; and
  (ii) the moratorium or quota is necessary for the conservation of the
  species or is otherwise consistent with the purpose of this title; or
  (B) the importation of all species of exotic birds from a particular
  country, if--
  (i) the country has not developed and implemented a management program
  for exotic birds in trade generally, that ensures both the conservation
  and the humane treatment of exotic birds during capture, transport, and
  maintenance; and
  (ii) the Secretary finds that the moratorium or quota is necessary for the
  conservation of the species or is otherwise consistent with the purpose
  of this title.
  (b) TERMINATION OF QUOTA OR MORATORIUM- The Secretary shall terminate a
  quota or moratorium established under subsection (a) if the Secretary finds
  that the reasons for establishing the quota or moratorium no longer exist.
SEC. 109. CALL FOR INFORMATION.
  Within one month after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary
  shall issue a call for information on the wild bird conservation program
  of each country that exports exotic birds, by--
  (1) publishing a notice in the Federal Register requesting submission of
  such information to the Secretary by all interested persons; and
  (2) submitting a written request for such information through the Secretary
  of State to each country that exports exotic birds.
SEC. 110. PETITIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Any person may at any time submit to the Secretary a
  petition in writing requesting that the Secretary exercise authority of
  the Secretary under this title to--
  (1) establish, modify, or terminate any prohibition, suspension, or quota
  under this title on importation of any species of exotic bird;
  (2) add a species of exotic bird to, or remove such a species from, a list
  under section 106; or
  (3) determine under section 107 whether an exotic bird breeding facility
  is a qualifying facility.
  (b) CONSIDERATION AND RULING- For each petition submitted to the Secretary
  in accordance with subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
  (1) within 90 days after receiving the petition, issue and publish in
  the Federal Register a preliminary ruling regarding whether the petition
  presents sufficient information indicating that the action requested in
  the petition might be warranted; and
  (2) for each petition determined to present such sufficient information--
  (A) provide an opportunity for the submission of public comment on the
  petition; and
  (B) issue and publish in the Federal Register a final ruling on the petition,
  by not later than 90 days after the end of the period for public comment.
SEC. 111. PROHIBITED ACTS.
  (a) PROHIBITIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), it is unlawful for any person to--
  (A) import any exotic bird in violation of any prohibition, suspension,
  or quota on importation under section 105 or 108;
  (B) import an exotic bird of a species that pursuant to section 106(a)(2)(B)
  is included in a list under section 106, if the bird was not captive bred
  at a qualifying facility; or
  (C) violate any regulation promulgated by the Secretary pursuant to
  authority provided by this title.
  (2) LIMITATION- Paragraph (1) (A) and (B) does not apply to importations
  made incident to the transit of exotic birds through the United States to
  foreign countries if the applicable requirements of the Convention have
  been satisfied with respect to the trade in those exotic birds.
  (b) BURDEN OF PROOF FOR EXEMPTIONS- Any person claiming the benefit of any
  exemption or permit under this title shall have the burden of proving that
  the exemption or permit is applicable or has been granted, and was valid
  and in force at the time of the alleged violation.
SEC. 112. EXEMPTIONS.
  Notwithstanding any prohibition, suspension, or quota under this title on
  the importation of a species of exotic bird, the Secretary may, through
  the issuance of import permits, authorize the importation of a  bird
  of the species if the Secretary determines that such importation is not
  detrimental to the survival of the species and the bird is being imported
  exclusively for any of the following purposes:
  (1) Scientific research.
  (2) As a personally owned pet of an individual who is returning to the
  United States after being continuously out of the country for a minimum
  of one year, except that an individual may not import more than 2 exotic
  birds under this paragraph in any year.
  (3) Zoological breeding or display programs.
  (4) Cooperative breeding programs that are--
  (A) designed to promote the conservation of the species and maintain
  the species in the wild by enhancing the propagation and survival of the
  species; and
  (B) developed and administered by, or in conjunction with, an avicultural,
  conservation, or zoological organization that meets standards developed
  by the Secretary.
SEC. 113. PENALTIES AND REGULATIONS.
  (a) PENALTIES-
  (1) CIVIL PENALTIES-
  (A) Any person who knowingly violates, and any person engaged in business
  as an importer of exotic birds who violates, section 111(a) (1) or (2)
  or any permit issued under section 112 may be assessed a civil penalty by
  the Secretary of not more than $25,000 for each violation.
  (B) Any person who knowingly violates, and any person engaged in business
  as an importer of exotic birds who violates, section 111(a)(3) may be
  assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than $12,000 for
  each such violation.
  (C) Any person who otherwise violates section 111(a) or any permit issued
  under section 112 may be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not
  more than $500 for each such violation.
  (D) A civil penalty under this section shall be assessed, and may be
  collected, in the manner in which a civil penalty under the Act of December
  28, 1973 (Public Law 93-205), may be assessed and  collected under section
  111(a) of that Act.
  (2) CRIMINAL PENALTIES-
  (A) Any person who knowingly violates, and any person engaged in business
  as an importer of exotic birds who violates, section 111(a) (1) or (2)
  or any permit issued under section 112 shall be fined under title 18,
  United States Code, or imprisoned for not more than 2 years, or both.
  (B) Any person who knowingly violates section 111(a)(3) shall be fined under
  title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than 6 months, or both.
  (b) DISTRICT COURT JURISDICTION- The several district courts of the United
  States, including the courts enumerated in section 460 of title 28, United
  States Code, shall have jurisdiction over any action arising under this
  title. For the purposes of this title, American Samoa shall be included
  in the Judicial District of the District Court of the United States for
  the District of Hawaii, and the Trust Territory of Palau and the Northern
  Marianas shall be included in the Judicial District of the District Court
  of the United States for the District of Guam.
  (c) OTHER ENFORCEMENT- The importation of an exotic bird is deemed to be
  transportation of wildlife for purposes of section 3(a) of the Lacey Act
  Amendments of 1981 (16 U.S.C. 3372(a)).
  (d) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall prescribe regulations that are
  necessary and appropriate to carry out the purposes of this title.
  (e) SAVINGS PROVISIONS- The authority of the Secretary under this title is
  in addition to and shall not affect the authority of the Secretary under
  the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or diminish
  the authority of the Secretary under the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981
  (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.). Nothing in this title shall be construed as
  repealing, superseding, or modifying any provision of Federal law.
SEC. 114. EXOTIC BIRD CONSERVATION ASSISTANCE.
  (a) ASSISTANCE- The Secretary, subject to the availability of appropriations,
  shall use amounts in the Exotic Bird Conservation Fund established by
  subsection (b) to provide financial and technical assistance for projects
  to conserve exotic birds in their native countries. In selecting projects
  for assistance, the Secretary shall give particular attention to species
  that are subject to an import moratorium or quota under this title, in
  order to assist those countries in the development and implementation of
  conservation management programs, or law enforcement, or both.
  (b) FUND-
  (1) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Treasury a separate account,
  which shall be known as the  `Exotic Bird Conservation Fund'.
  (2) CONTENTS- The Fund shall consist of--
  (A) all amounts received by the United States in the form of penalties,
  fines, or forfeiture of property collected under this title in excess of
  the cost of paying rewards under section 113(c);
  (B) donations received by the Secretary for exotic bird conservation; and
  (C) such amounts as are appropriated to the Secretary for conserving
  exotic birds.
  (c) REVIEW AND REPORT ON OTHER CONSERVATION OPPORTUNITIES- The Secretary, in
  consultation with appropriate representatives of industry, the conservation
  community, the Secretariat of the Convention, and other national and
  international bodies, shall--
  (1) review opportunities for a voluntary program of labeling exotic birds,
  certification of exotic bird breeding facilities and retail outlets, and
  provision of privately organized or funded technical assistance to other
  nations; and
  (2) report to the Congress the results of this review within 2 years after
  the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 115. MARKING AND RECORDKEEPING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to promulgate regulations
  to require marking or recordkeeping that the Secretary determines will
  contribute significantly to the ability of the Secretary to ensure compliance
  with the prohibitions of section 111, for--
  (1) any exotic bird that is imported after the date of enactment of this
  Act; or
  (2) any other exotic bird that is--
  (A) hatched after the date of the enactment of this Act;
  (B) offered for sale; and
  (C) of a species--
  (i) the export of which from any country of origin is prohibited; and
  (ii) that is subject to a high level of illegal trade.
  (b) AVOIDING DETERRENCE OF BREEDING- The Secretary shall seek to ensure
  that regulations promulgated under this section will not have the effect
  of deterring captive breeding of exotic birds.
SEC. 116. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $5,000,000 for
  each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995 to carry out this title,
  to remain available until expended.
SEC. 117. RELATIONSHIP TO STATE LAW.
  Nothing in this title may be construed as precluding the regulation under
  State law of the sale, transfer, or possession of exotic birds if such
  regulation--
  (1) does not authorize any sale, transfer, or possession of exotic birds
  that is prohibited under this title; and
  (2) is consistent with the international obligations of the United States.
TITLE II--GREAT LAKES FISH AND WILDLIFE TISSUE BANK
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as `The Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Tissue
  Bank Act'.
SEC. 202. TISSUE BANK.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall coordinate existing facilities for the
  storage, preparation, examination, and archiving of tissues from selected
  Great Lakes fish and wildlife, which shall be known as the `Great Lakes
  Fish and Wildlife Tissue Bank'.
  (b) GUIDANCE- The Secretary shall, in consultation with appropriate Federal
  and State agencies and the Council of Great Lakes Research Managers,
  issue guidance, after an opportunity for public review and comment, for
  Great Lakes fish and wildlife tissue collection, preparation, archiving,
  quality control procedures, and access that will ensure--
  (1) appropriate uniform methods and standards for those activities to provide
  confidence in Great Lakes fish and wildlife tissue samples used for research;
  (2) documentation of procedures used for collecting, preparing, and
  archiving those samples; and
  (3) appropriate scientific use of the tissues in the Great Lakes Fish and
  Wildlife Tissue Bank.
SEC. 203. DATA BASE.
  (a) MAINTENANCE- The Secretary shall maintain a central data base which
  provides an effective means for tracking and assessing relevant reference
  data on Great Lakes fish and wildlife, including data on tissues collected
  for and maintained in the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Tissue Bank.
  (b) ACCESS- The Secretary shall establish criteria, after an opportunity
  for public review and comment, for access to the data base which provides
  for appropriate use of the information by the public.
SEC. 204. DEFINITIONS.
  In this title--
  (1) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the
  Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
  (2) `Great Lakes fish and wildlife' means fauna, fish, and invertebrates
  dependent on Great Lakes resources, and located within the Great Lakes Basin.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary, $250,000 for each
  of fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to carry out this title.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 301. REAUTHORIZATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE CONSERVATION ACT OF 1980.
  Section 11 of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1980 (16 U.S.C. 2910)
  is amended by striking `fiscal years' and all that follows through the
  end of the sentence and inserting `fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995,
  1996, and 1997.'.
SEC. 302. REAUTHORIZATION OF AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION ACT.
  Section 2306 of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4245)
  is amended by striking `fiscal years' and all that follows through `1993'
  and inserting `fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998'.
SEC. 303. TECHNICAL REVISIONS TO MAPS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior shall, before the end of
  the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act,
  make such technical revisions to the maps described in subsection (b)
  as are necessary to ensure that--
  (1) on the maps referred to in subsection (b)(2) (A) and (B), depictions of
  areas as `otherwise protected areas' do not include any area that is not
  an otherwise protected area within the meaning of that term under section
  12 of the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note);
  (2) on the map referred to in subsection (b)(2)(C), depictions of areas as
  `otherwise protected areas' identified as `VA-60P' do not include--
  (A) any area that is located south of the north bank of the Salt Ponds
  Inlet in Hampton, Virginia; and
  (B) the area that is located north of the line described in subsection
  (c), other than any part of that area which is an otherwise protected area
  within the meaning of that term under section 12 of the Coastal Barrier
  Improvement Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 3503 note);
  (3) on the map referred to in subsection (b)(2)(A), the area: consisting
  of approximately 5,221 acres and owned by the National Audubon Society
  as of September 28, 1992 (known as the `Audubon Sanctuary'), along with
  the associated aquatic habitat of Pine Island Bay and Goat Island Bay,
  shall be designated and depicted as NC-01, a unit of the Coastal Barrier
  Resources System by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph (5) of this
  subsection; and
  (4) on the map referred to in subsection (b)(2)(C) areas designated as
  `otherwise protected areas' identified as `VA-60P' that are:
  (A) north of the north bank of Salt Ponds Inlet in Hampton, Virginia; and
  (B) south of the line described in subsection (c) of this section shall
  be designated and depicted on the map as VA-60, a unit of the Coastal
  Barrier Resources System by the Secretary in accordance with paragraph
  (5) of this subsection.
In designating the units in accordance with paragraphs (3) and (4) above,
the Secretary is authorized to make any minor and technical modifications to
the boundaries of such unit as may be necessary to correct existing clerical
and typographical errors in the map: Provided, That the local government in
which is located such unit may recommend any such corrections be considered
by the Secretary.
  (b) MAPS DESCRIBED- The maps referred to in subsection (a) are--
  (1) included in a set of maps entitled `Coastal Barrier Resources System',
  dated October 24, 1990; and
  (2) entitled, respectively--
  (A) `Pine Island Bay Unit, NC-01P',
  (B) `Roosevelt Natural Area Unit, NC-05P', and
  (C) `Plum Island Unit VA-59P Long Creek Unit VA-60P'.
  (c) LINE DESCRIBED- The line referred to in subsection (a)(2)(B) is a line
  described as follows:
  Beginning at an iron pipe in the low water line of Chesapeake Bay; said
  iron pipe being located 265.00 feet in a southerly direction from the south
  eastern corner of Fox Hill Shores Subdivision (as shown in Plat Book 9,
  page 161 as recorded in the Circuit Court for the City of Hampton, Virginia)
  and from this TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING running thence North 66 degrees 47
  minutes 46 seconds West 995.79 feet to a found iron pipe; thence South
  15 degrees 47 minutes 20 seconds East 270.65 feet to a found iron pipe;
  thence South 73 degrees 59 minutes 57 seconds West 836.68 feet to a point
  marking the low water line of Long Creek; being known as the southerly
  property line of Riley's Way.
SEC. 304. NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE FOUNDATION.
  Beginning in fiscal year 1993 and hereafter, the National Fish and Wildlife
  Foundation may continue to draw down Federal funds when matching requirements
  have been met: Provided, That interest earned by the Foundation and its
  subgrantees on funds drawn down to date, but not immediately disbursed,
  shall be used to fund all activities as approved by the Board of Directors:
  Provided further, That the Foundation's subgrantees shall be exempt from
  the audit reporting and compliance requirements of OMB Circular A-133,
  for all grants of $100,000 or less. The Foundation shall amend its grant
  contracts to ensure that its subgrantees are advised and certify that they
  will comply with all applicable Federal laws and regulations imposed on
  individuals or organizations receiving Federal funds.
SEC. 305. WETLANDS MAPPING.
  Section 401(a) of Public Law 99-645, the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act
  of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 3931(a)), as amended by Public Law 101-233 is further
  amended--
  (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `as soon as practicable' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `by September 30, 2000';
  (2) in paragraph (4), by striking `. And' at the end of the paragraph and
  inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon;
  (3) in paragraph (5)(B), by striking the period and inserting in lieu
  thereof a semicolon;
  (4) by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:
  `(6) produce, by September 30, 2004, a digital wetlands data base for
  the United States based on the final wetlands maps produced under this
  section; and
  `(7) archive and make available for dissemination wetlands data and maps
  digitized under this section as such data and maps become available.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.