 
--H.R.1435--
H.R.1435
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To direct the Secretary of the Army to transfer jurisdiction over the Rocky
Mountain
Arsenal, Colorado, to the Secretary of the Interior.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Rocky Mountain Arsenal
  National Wildlife Refuge Act of 1992'.
  (b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this Act:
  (1) The term `Arsenal' means the Rocky Mountain Arsenal in the State
  of Colorado.
  (2) The term `refuge' means the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife
  Refuge established pursuant to section 4(a).
  (3) The term `hazardous substance' has the meaning given such term by
  section 101(14) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(14)).
  (4) The term `pollutant or contaminant' has the meaning given such term by
  section 101(33) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(14)).
  (5) The term `response action' has the meaning given the term `response' by
  section 101(25) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(25)).
  (6) The term `person' has the meaning given that term by section 101(21)
  of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
  Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(21)).
SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND JURISDICTION OVER THE
ROCKY MOUNTAIN ARSENAL.
  (a) TRANSFER OF MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES- (1) Not later than October 1,
  1992, the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the Interior shall
  enter into a memorandum of understanding under which--
  (A) the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the Secretary of the
  Interior, without reimbursement, all responsibility to manage for wildlife
  and public use purposes the real property comprising the Rocky Mountain
  Arsenal in the State of Colorado, except the property and facilities
  required to be retained under subsection (c) or designated for disposal
  under section 5; and
  (B) the Secretary of the Interior shall manage that real property as if
  it were a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System established for the
  purposes provided in section 4.
  (2) The management of the property by the Secretary of the Interior shall
  be subject to (A) any response action at the Arsenal carried out by or
  under the authority of the Secretary of the Army under the Comprehensive
  Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
  U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of law, and (B) any
  action required under any other statute to remediate petroleum products
  or their derivatives (including motor oil and aviation fuel) carried out
  by or under the authority of the Secretary of the Army. In the case of
  any conflict between management of the property by the Secretary of the
  Interior and any such response action or other action, the response action
  or other action shall take priority.
  (b) TRANSFER OF JURISDICTION- (1) Upon receipt of the certification described
  in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Army shall transfer to the Secretary
  of the Interior jurisdiction over the real property comprising the Arsenal,
  except the property and facilities required to be retained under subsection
  (c) or designated for disposal under section 5. The transfer shall be
  made without cost to the Secretary of the Interior and shall include such
  improvements on the property as the Secretary of the Interior may request
  in writing for refuge management purposes.
  (2) The transfer of real property under paragraph (1) may occur only after
  the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency certifies to the
  Secretary of the Army that response action required at the Arsenal and any
  action required under any other statute to remediate petroleum products or
  their derivatives (including motor oil and aviation fuel) at the Arsenal
  have been completed, except operation and maintenance associated with
  those actions.
  (3) The exact acreage and legal description of the real property subject
  to transfer under paragraph (1) shall be determined by a survey mutually
  satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of the
  Interior. The Secretary of the Army shall bear any costs related to
  the survey.
  (c) PROPERTY AND FACILITIES EXCLUDED FROM TRANSFERS-
  (1) PROPERTY USED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PURPOSES- The Secretary of the
  Army shall retain jurisdiction, authority, and control over all real property
  at the Arsenal to be used for water treatment; the treatment, storage,
  or disposal of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants; or other
  purposes related to response action at the Arsenal and any action required
  under any other statute to remediate petroleum products or their derivatives
  (including motor oil and aviation fuel) at the Arsenal. The Secretary of
  the Army shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior regarding the
  identification and management of all real property retained under this
  paragraph and ensure that activities carried out on that property are--
  (A) consistent with the purposes for which the refuge is to be established
  under section 4(c), to the extent practicable; and
  (B) consistent with the provisions of sections 2(a)(2) and 4(e).
  (2) PROPERTY USED FOR LEASE OF PUBLIC FACILITIES- (A) The Secretary of the
  Army shall retain jurisdiction, authority, and control over the following
  real property at the Arsenal:
  (i) Approximately 12.08 acres containing the South Adams County Water
  Treatment Plant and described in Department of the Army lease No. DACA
  45-1-87-6121.
  (ii) Approximately 63.04 acres containing a United States Postal Service
  facility and described in Department of the Army lease No. DACA 45-4-71-6185.
  (B) Nothing in this Act shall affect the validity or continued operation
  of leases of the Department of the Army in existence on the date of the
  enactment of this Act and involving the property described in subparagraph
  (A).
SEC. 3. CONTINUATION OF RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY OF THE SECRETARY OF
THE ARMY FOR ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
  (a) RESPONSIBILITY- Notwithstanding the memorandum of understanding
  required under section 2(a), the Secretary of the Army shall, with respect
  to the real property at the Arsenal that is subject to the memorandum,
  continue to carry out (1) response action at that property under the
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
  1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of law, and
  (2) any action required under any other statute to remediate petroleum
  products or their derivatives (including motor oil and aviation fuel). The
  management by the Secretary of the Interior of such real property shall be
  subject to any such response action or other action at the property being
  carried out by or under the authority of the Secretary of the Army under
  such provisions of law.
  (b) LIABILITY- (1) Nothing in this Act shall relieve, and no action may be
  taken under this Act to relieve, the Secretary of the Army or any other
  person from any obligation or other liability at the Arsenal under the
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
  1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of law.
  (2) After the transfer of jurisdiction under section 2(b), the Secretary
  of the Army shall retain any obligation or other liability at the Arsenal
  under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
  Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and other applicable provisions of
  law and shall be accorded all easements and access as may be reasonably
  required to carry out such obligation or other liability.
  (c) DEGREE OF CLEANUP- Nothing in this Act shall be construed to restrict
  or lessen the degree of cleanup at the Arsenal required to be carried out
  under applicable provisions of law.
  (d) PAYMENT OF RESPONSE ACTION COSTS- Any Federal department or agency
  that had or has operations at the Arsenal resulting in the release or
  threatened release of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants
  shall pay the cost of related response actions or related actions under
  other statutes to remediate petroleum products or their derivatives,
  including motor oil and aviation fuel.
  (e) CONSULTATION- In carrying out response actions at the Arsenal, the
  Secretary of the Army shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior to
  ensure that such actions are carried out in a manner--
  (1) to the extent practicable, consistent with the purposes set forth in
  section 4(c) for which the refuge will be established after the certification
  required under section 2(b)(2); and
  (2) consistent with the provisions of sections 2(a)(2) and 4(e).
  (f) EXISTING LAW- The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16
  U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703 et seq.),
  and the Bald Eagle Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 668 et seq.) shall apply to
  all actions at the Arsenal.
  (g) RESPONSE ACTIONS- (1) The future establishment of the refuge shall
  not restrict or lessen in any way any response action or degree of cleanup
  under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
  Act of 1980 or other applicable provisions of law, or any response action
  required under any other statute to remediate petroleum products or their
  derivatives (including motor oil and aviation fuel), required to be carried
  out by or under the authority of the Secretary of the Army at the Arsenal
  and surrounding areas, including (but not limited to)--
  (A) the substance or performance of the remedial investigation and
  feasibility study or endangerment assessments;
  (B) the contents and conclusions of the remedial investigation and
  feasibility study or the endangerment assessment reports; or
  (C) the selection and implementation of response action and any action
  required under any other statute to remediate petroleum products or their
  derivatives (including motor oil and aviation fuel) for the Arsenal and
  surrounding areas.
  (2) All response action and action required under any other statute to
  remediate petroleum products or their derivatives (including motor oil
  and aviation fuel) carried out at the Arsenal shall attain a degree of
  cleanup of hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants that, at a
  minimum, is sufficient to fully meet the purposes set forth in section 4(c)
  for which the refuge will be established and to permit access to all real
  property comprising the refuge by refuge personnel, wildlife researchers,
  and visitors.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ROCKY MOUNTAIN ARSENAL NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Not later than 30 days after the transfer of jurisdiction
  under section 2(b), the Secretary of the Interior shall establish a national
  wildlife refuge that shall be known as the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National
  Wildlife Refuge and consist of the real property required to be transferred
  under such section. The Secretary of the Interior shall publish a notice
  of the establishment of the refuge in the Federal Register.
  (b) ADMINISTRATION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior shall manage the refuge in
  accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of
  1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.) and other applicable law.
  (2) CONSULTATION- In developing plans for the management of fish and wildlife
  at and public use of the refuge, the Secretary of the Interior shall--
  (A) consult with the Colorado Department of Natural Resources and local
  governments adjacent to the refuge; and
  (B) provide an opportunity for public comment on such plans.
  (3) The Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the Federal
  Aviation Administration shall confer from time to time as necessary to
  coordinate the management of the refuge with the operations of the Denver
  International Airport.
  (c) PURPOSES OF THE REFUGE- The refuge is established for the following
  purposes:
  (1) To conserve and enhance populations of fish, wildlife, and plants
  within the refuge, including populations of waterfowl, raptors, passerines,
  and marsh and water birds.
  (2) To conserve species listed as threatened or endangered under the
  Endangered Species Act and species that are candidates for such listing.
  (3) To provide maximum fish and wildlife oriented public uses at levels
  compatible with the conservation and enhancement of wildlife and wildlife
  habitat.
  (4) To provide opportunities for compatible scientific research.
  (5) To provide opportunities for compatible environmental and land use
  education.
  (6) To conserve and enhance the land and water of the refuge in a manner
  that will conserve and enhance the natural diversity of fish, wildlife,
  plants, and their habitats.
  (7) To protect and enhance the quality of aquatic habitat within the refuge.
  (8) To fulfill international treaty obligations of the United States with
  respect to fish and wildlife and their habitats.
  (d) LIMITATIONS-
  (1) PROHIBITION AGAINST ANNEXATION- Notwithstanding section 4(a)(2)
  of the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966
  (16 U.S.C. 668dd(a)(2)), the Secretary of the Interior shall not allow
  the annexation of lands within the refuge by any unit of general local
  government.
  (2) PROHIBITION AGAINST THROUGH ROADS- Public roads may not be constructed
  through the refuge.
SEC. 5. DISPOSAL OF CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY AT THE ARSENAL FOR COMMERCIAL,
HIGHWAY, OR OTHER PUBLIC USE.
  (a) PROPERTY DESIGNATED FOR DISPOSAL UNDER THIS SECTION- The following
  areas of real property at the Arsenal are designated for disposal under
  this section for commercial, highway, or other public use purposes:
  (1) An area of real property consisting of approximately 815 acres located
  at the Arsenal, the approximate legal description of which is section 9,
  T3S-R67W, the W2W2 of section 4 and the W4E2W2 of section 4, T3S-R67W,
  and the SW4SW4 of section 33, the W4E2W2 of section 33, and the W2NW4 of
  section 33, T2S-R67W; except that the area designated shall not include
  the approximately 63.04 acres containing a United States Postal Service
  facility and described in Department of the Army lease No. DACA 45-4-71-6185
  and the water wells located in buildings 385, 386, and 387 at the Arsenal
  and associated facilities and easements necessary to operate and maintain
  the water wells, which shall be treated in the manner provided in section 2.
  (2) To permit the widening of existing roads, an area of real property of
  not more than 100 feet inside the boundary of the Arsenal on--
  (A) the Northwest side of the Arsenal adjacent to Colorado Highway #2;
  (B) the Northern side of the Arsenal adjacent to 96th Avenue; and
  (C) the Southern side of the Arsenal adjacent to 56th Avenue.
  (b) TRANSFER FOR HIGHWAY PURPOSES- The Secretary of the Army shall convey
  those parcels of real property described in subsection (a)(2) to the State
  or the appropriate unit of general local government at no cost to allow for
  the improvement of public roads in existence on the date of the enactment
  of this Act or for the provision of alternative means of transportation.
  (c) TRANSFER FOR SALE- (1) The Secretary of the Army shall transfer to
  the Administrator of the General Services Administration those parcels of
  the area of real property described in subsection (a)(1). The transferred
  property shall be sold in advertised sales as surplus property under the
  provisions of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949
  (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.), except that the provisions of such Act relating
  to reduced- or no-cost transfers to other governmental entities shall not
  apply to this property.
  (2) Any amounts realized by the United States upon the sale of property
  as described in paragraph (1) shall be transferred to the Director of the
  United States Fish and Wildlife Service to be used, to the extent provided
  for in appropriation Acts, to supplement the funds otherwise available
  for construction of a visitor and education center at the refuge.
  (d) LIMITATIONS-
  (1) PERPETUAL RESTRICTIONS- (A) The disposal of real property under this
  section shall be subject to perpetual restrictions that are attached to
  any deed to such property and that prohibit--
  (i) the use of the property for residential or industrial purposes;
  (ii) the use of ground water located under, or surface water located on,
  the property as a source of potable water;
  (iii) hunting and fishing on the property, excluding hunting and fishing
  for nonconsumptive use subject to appropriate restrictions; and
  (iv) agricultural use of the property, including all farming activities
  such as the raising of livestock, crops, or vegetables, but excluding
  agricultural practices used in response action or used for erosion control.
  (B) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be construed to restrict or lessen
  the degree of cleanup required to be carried out under applicable provisions
  of law at the property designated for disposal under this section.
  (2) DISPOSAL IN ACCORDANCE WITH CERCLA- The disposal of real property
  under this section shall be carried out in compliance with section 120(h)
  of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
  Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) and other applicable provisions of law.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.