 
--H.R.6049--
H.R.6049
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Congressional Award Act to revise and extend authorities for the
Congressional Award Board.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Congressional Award Act Amendments of 1992'.
SEC. 2. REQUIREMENTS REGARDING FINANCIAL OPERATIONS OF CONGRESSIONAL AWARD
PROGRAM; NONCOMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
  Section 5 of the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 804) is amended by
  adding at the end the following subsection:
  `(c)(1) The Director shall, in consultation with the Board, ensure that
  appropriate procedures for fiscal control and fund accounting are established
  for the financial operations of the Congressional Award Program, and that
  such operations are administered by personnel with expertise in accounting
  and financial management. Such personnel may be retained under contract. In
  carrying out this paragraph, the Director shall ensure that the liabilities
  of the Board do not, for any calendar year, exceed the assets of the Board.
  `(2)(A) The Comptroller General of the United States shall determine,
  for calendar years 1993 and 1994, whether the Director has substantially
  complied with paragraph (1). The findings made by the Comptroller General
  under the preceding sentence shall be included in the first report submitted
  under section 8(b) after December 31, 1994.
  `(B) If the Director fails to substantially comply with paragraph (1),
  the Board shall take such actions as may be necessary to prepare, pursuant
  to section 9, for the orderly cessation of the activities of the Board.'.
SEC. 3. TERMINATION.
  Section 9 of the Congressional Award Act (2 U.S.C. 808) is amended by
  striking `October 1, 1992' and inserting `October 1, 1995'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.