 
--H.R.707--
H.R.707
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Commodity Exchange Act to improve the regulation of futures and
options traded under rules and regulations of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission; to establish registration standards for all exchange floor traders;
to restrict practices which may lead to the abuse of outside customers of
the marketplace; to reinforce development of exchange audit trails to better
enable the detection and prevention of such practices; to establish higher
standards for service on governing boards and disciplinary committees of
self-regulatory organizations; to enhance the international regulation of
futures trading; to regularize the process of authorizing appropriations
for the Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Futures Trading Practices
  Act of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents is as follows:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec.  1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec.  2. References to the Commodity Exchange Act.
TITLE I--LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN TRADING PRACTICES
Sec.  101. Dual trading.
Sec.  102. Restrictions on trading among members of broker associations.
Sec.  103. Broker association disclosure.
TITLE II--ENHANCEMENT OF REGULATORY AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES
Sec.  201. Duties of contract markets; audit trails.
Sec.  202. Commission oversight; deficiency orders.
Sec.  203. Oral Orders.
Sec.  204. Telemarketing fraud.
Sec.  205. Undercover operations and enforcement.
Sec.  206. Self regulatory organization disciplinary committees and governing
boards.
Sec.  207. Required registration of floor traders.
Sec.  208. Enhancement of registration requirements.
Sec.  209. Enforcement of civil money penalties.
Sec.  210. Ethics training for registrants.
Sec.  211. Nationwide service of process and venue.
Sec.  212. Increased penalties.
Sec.  213. Contract market emergency actions.
Sec.  214. Prohibition against insider trading.
Sec.  215. Qualifications of Commissioners.
Sec.  216. Commission operations.
Sec.  217. Prohibition on voting by interested members.
Sec.  218. Study of assessments on transactions.
Sec.  219. Competitiveness study.
Sec.  220. Computerized futures trading.
Sec.  221. Money penalties in civil court actions.
Sec.  222. Civil damages; liability of futures commission merchants.
Sec.  223. Customer restitution.
Sec.  224. Complaints against registered persons; class action suits.
Sec.  225. Penalties study and guidelines.
Sec.  226. Publication of Commission opinions.
Sec.  227. Suspension of registrants charged with felonies.
Sec.  228. Appeals by registered futures associations.
Sec.  229. Risk assessment for holding companies.
TITLE III--ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES
Sec.  301. Subpoena authority.
Sec.  302. Cooperation with foreign futures authorities.
Sec.  303. Investigative assistance to foreign futures authorities.
Sec.  304. Disclosure of information received from foreign futures authorities.
Sec.  305. Disclosure of information to foreign futures authorities.
TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE
Sec.  401. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec.  402. Technical amendments.
Sec.  403. Effective date.
Sec.  404. Definitions.
TITLE V--INTERMARKET COORDINATION
Sec.  501. Margin on stock index futures.
Sec.  502. Exemptive authority.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO THE COMMODITY EXCHANGE ACT.
  Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act an amendment
  or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section
  or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section
  or other provision of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
TITLE I--LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN TRADING PRACTICES
SEC. 101. DUAL TRADING.
  (a) PROHIBITION- Section 4j (7 U.S.C. 6j) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subsections (b) and (c),
  respectively;
  (2) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by striking `The Commission
  shall within nine months after the effective date of the Commodity Futures
  Trading Commission Act of 1974, and subsequently when it determines that
  changes are required,' and inserting `If, in addition to the regulations
  issued pursuant to subsection (a), the Commission has reason to believe
  that dual trading-related or facilitated abuses are not being or cannot
  be effectively addressed by subsection (a), the Commission shall'; and
  (3) by inserting a new subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(a)(1) The Commission shall issue regulations to prohibit the privilege of
  dual trading on each contract market which has not been exempted from such
  regulations under paragraph (3). The regulations issued by the Commission
  under this paragraph--
  `(A) shall provide that the prohibition of dual trading thereunder shall
  take effect not less than thirty days after the issuance of the regulations;
  `(B) shall provide for exceptions, as the Commission determines necessary
  and appropriate, to ensure fairness and orderly trading in affected contract
  markets, including--
  `(i) transition measures and a reasonable phase-in period,
  `(ii) exceptions for spread transactions and the correction of trading
  errors,
  `(iii) allowance for a customer to designate in writing not less than
  once annually a named floor broker to execute orders for such customer,
  notwithstanding the regulations to prohibit the privilege of dual trading
  required under this paragraph, and
  `(iv) other measures reasonably designed to accommodate unique or special
  characteristics of individual boards of trade or contract markets, to
  address emergency or unusual market conditions, or otherwise to further
  the public interest;
  `(C) shall establish procedures for the application for and issuance of
  exemptions under paragraph (3) which, among other things, shall specify
  the relevant data required to be submitted by the board of trade with
  each application;
  `(D) shall specify the methodology by which it shall determine the average
  daily trading volume on a contract market for purposes of paragraph (4)
  based on a moving daily average of either six or twelve months; and
  `(E) shall establish an expeditious procedure to revoke an exemption granted
  under paragraph (3) providing sufficient notice, opportunity for hearing,
  and findings to assure fundamental fairness.
  `(2) As used in this section, the term `dual trading' means the execution
  of customer orders by a floor broker during any trading session in which
  the floor broker executes any trade in the same contract market for--
  `(A) the account of such floor broker;
  `(B) an account for which such floor broker has trading discretion; or
  `(C) an account controlled by a person with whom such floor broker is
  subject to trading restrictions under section 4j(d).
  `(3) The Commission shall exempt a contract market from the regulations
  issued under paragraph (1), either unconditionally or on stated conditions
  (including stated periods of time) relevant to the attainment or maintenance
  of compliance with the standards in subparagraphs (A) and (B), upon
  finding that--
  `(A) the trade monitoring system in place at the contract market satisfies
  the requirements of section 5a(b) with regard to violations attributable
  to dual trading at such contract market; or
  `(B)(i) there is a substantial likelihood that a dual trading suspension
  would harm the public interest in hedging or price basing at such contract
  market, and
  `(ii) other corrective actions, such as those described in section 8e,
  are sufficient and appropriate to bring the contract market into compliance
  with the standard in subparagraph (A).
  `(4)(A) The regulations issued by the Commission under paragraph (1) shall
  not apply to any contract market in which the Commission determines that
  the average daily trading volume is less than the threshold trading level
  established for the contract market under this paragraph.
  `(B) The threshold trading level shall be set initially at eight thousand
  contracts.
  `(C) The Commission may, by rule or order--
  `(i) increase, or
  `(ii) at any time following the date three years after the date of enactment
  of this paragraph, decrease,
the threshold trading level for specific contract markets after taking into
consideration the actual or potential effects of a dual trading ban on the
public interest in hedging or price basing at the affected contract market.
  `(D) The Commission shall provide the affected contract market with adequate
  notice of any such increase or decrease.
  `(5) Before the Commission denies an application for an exemption under
  paragraph (3) or exempts a contract market subject to conditions, it shall--
  `(A) provide the affected board of trade with notice of the reason or
  reasons that the application was not approved as submitted, including--
  `(i) any reason the Commission has to believe that the trade monitoring
  system in place at the contract market does not satisfy the requirements
  of paragraph (3)(A) and the basis for such reason;
  `(ii) any corrective action or actions, such as those described in section
  8e, that the Commission believes the affected contract market must take to
  satisfy the requirements of paragraph (3)(A), and an acceptable timetable
  for such corrective action; and
  `(iii) any conditions or limitations that the Commission proposes to attach
  to the exemption under paragraph (3);
  `(B) provide the affected board of trade with an opportunity for a
  hearing through submission of written data, views, or arguments and,
  under terms set by the Commission at the request of the board of trade,
  through an oral presentation of views and comments to the Commission, in
  order to make the demonstration required under paragraph (3) or otherwise
  to petition the Commission with respect to its application; and
  `(C) make findings, based on the information, views, and arguments placed
  before it in connection with the application, as to whether--
  `(i) the standard in either paragraph (3)(A) or (3)(B) applies, and
  `(ii) any conditions or limitations which the Commission proposes to
  attach under paragraph (3) are appropriate in light of the purposes of
  this subsection.
The Commission shall publish in the Federal Register notice of any exemptive
petitions filed under paragraph (3) and any proposed or final actions the
Commission may take on such petitions. Unless the Commission determines that
more immediate action is appropriate in the public interest, any Commission
order denying an application or exempting a contract market conditionally shall
not take effect for at least twenty days following the issuance of the order.
  `(6) Violation of an order issued under this subsection shall be considered
  a violation of an order of the Commission for purposes of--
  `(i) establishing liability and assessing penalties against a contract
  market or any director, officer, agent, or employee thereof under section
  6b or 6c; or
  `(ii) initiating proceedings under section 5b or 6(a).
  `(7) Any board of trade which has applied to the Commission to exempt
  a contract market from the regulations issued under paragraph (1) may
  obtain judicial review of any final action of the Commission to deny such
  application, to issue an exemption subject to conditions, or to revoke
  an exemption, only in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit
  in which the party seeking review resides or has its principal place of
  business, or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of
  Columbia Circuit, under the standards applicable to rulemaking proceedings
  under section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(8)(A) The Commission shall issue the regulations required under paragraph
  (1) not later than two hundred and seventy days after the enactment of
  this section. If, prior to the effective date of the prohibition on dual
  trading under such regulations, a board of trade submits to the Commission
  an application for an exemption for a contract market under paragraph (3),
  the Commission shall not apply the prohibition against dual trading under
  paragraph (1) to the contract market until the Commission has approved or
  denied the application.
  `(B) The Commission shall approve or deny any application for an
  exemption under paragraph (3) within seventy-five days after receipt of
  the application, or as soon as practicable.'.
SEC. 102. RESTRICTIONS ON TRADING AMONG MEMBERS OF BROKER ASSOCIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4j (7 U.S.C. 6j) is amended by adding at the end
  the following new subsection:
  `(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a floor broker may not execute
  an order of a customer if such floor broker knows the opposite party to
  the transaction to be a floor broker or floor trader with whom such trader
  or broker has a relationship involving trading on such contract market as--
  `(A) a partner in a partnership;
  `(B) an employer or employee; or
  `(C) Such other affiliation as the Commission may specify by rule.
  `(2) Paragraph (1)  shall not apply--
  `(A) if the Commission has adopted rules that the Commission certifies to
  Congress require procedures and standards designed to prevent violations
  of this Act attributable to the trading described in paragraph (1); or
  `(B) to any contract market that has implemented rules designed to prevent
  violations of this Act attributable to the trading described in paragraph
  (1), except that, if the Commission determines, by rule or order, that such
  rules are not adequate to prevent such violations, paragraph (1) shall
  become effective with respect to such contract market after a reasonable
  period determined by the Commission.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall become
  effective two hundred and seventy days after the date of enactment of
  this Act.
SEC. 103. BROKER ASSOCIATION DISCLOSURE.
  Subsection (a) of section 5a (7 U.S.C. 7a) (as amended by sections 201(a)(1)
  and 217 of this Act) is further amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (11);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (12) and inserting a
  semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(13) provide for disclosure to the contract market and the Commission of any
  trade, business, or financial partnership, cost-, profit-, or capital-sharing
  agreements or other formal arrangement among or between floor brokers
  and traders on such contract market where such partnership agreement or
  arrangement is material and known to the floor broker or floor trader;'.
TITLE II--ENHANCEMENT OF REGULATORY AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES
SEC. 201. DUTIES OF CONTRACT MARKETS; AUDIT TRAILS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 5a (7 U.S.C. 7a) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' after the section designation; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(b)(1) Each contract market shall maintain and utilize a system to monitor
  trading to detect and deter violations of the contract market's rules and
  regulations committed in the making of trades and the execution of customer
  orders on the floor or subject to the rules of such contract market. The
  system shall include--
  `(A) physical observation of trading areas;
  `(B) audit trail and recordkeeping systems able to capture essential data
  on the terms, participants, and sequence of transactions (including relevant
  data on unmatched trades and out-trades);
  `(C) systems capable of reviewing, and used to review, data on trades
  effectively on a regular basis to detect violations committed in making
  trades and executing customer orders on the floor or subject to the rules
  of such contract market, including--
  `(i) all types of violations attributable to dual trading; and
  `(ii) to the full extent feasible, as determined by the Commission, all
  other types of violations involving the making of trades and the execution
  of customer orders;
  `(D) the use of information gathered through such system on a consistent
  basis to bring appropriate disciplinary actions against violators;
  `(E) the commitment of resources to such system necessary for such system
  to be effective in detecting and deterring such violations, including
  adequate staff to develop and prosecute disciplinary actions; and
  `(F) the assessment of meaningful penalties against violators and the
  referral of appropriate cases to the Commission.
  `(2) The audit trail system of the contract market shall, consistent with
  Commission regulations, accurately record--
  `(A) the times of trades in increments of no more than one minute in
  length; and
  `(B) the sequence of trades for each floor trader and broker.
  `(3) Beginning three years after the date of enactment of this subsection,
  the audit trail system of each contract market, except as provided in
  paragraph (5) and except to the extent the Commission determines that
  circumstances beyond  the control of the contract market prevent compliance
  despite the contract market's affirmative good faith efforts to comply,
  shall--
  `(A) for all trades, record accurately and promptly the essential data
  on terms, participants, and times as required by the Commission by rule,
  including the time of execution of such trade, through a means that--
  `(i) records such data in a form which cannot be altered except in a manner
  that will leave a complete and independent record of such alteration;
  `(ii) continually provides such data to the contract market;
  `(iii) identifies such time, to the extent practicable as determined by
  the Commission--
  `(I) independently of the person making the trade;
  `(II) through a mechanism that records the time automatically when entered
  by the person making the trade; or
  `(III) through such other means that will capture a similarly reliable
  time; and
  `(iv) is adequately precise to determine, to the extent practicable as
  determined by the Commission by rule or order--
  `(I) the sequence of all trades by each floor trader; and
  `(II) the sequence of all trades by each floor broker; and
  `(B) to the extent practicable as determined by the Commission by rule or
  order, for customer trades, record the time that each order is received
  on the floor of the board of trade, is received by the floor broker for
  execution (or when such order is transmitted in an extremely rapid manner
  to the broker), and is reported from the floor of the board of trade as
  executed, through a means that--
  `(i) records such times in a form which cannot be altered except in a
  manner that will leave a complete and independent record of such alteration;
  `(ii) continually provides such data to the contract market;
  `(iii) identifies such time--
  `(I) independently of the person making the trade or processing the order;
  `(II) through a mechanism that records the time automatically when entered
  by the person making the trade or processing such order, as appropriate; or
  `(III) through such other means as will capture a similarly reliable
  time; and
  `(iv) is adequately precise to determine--
  `(I) the sequence in which, for each futures commission merchant, floor
  broker, or member firm, as applicable, all orders are received on and
  reported from the floor of the contract market; and
  `(II) the sequence in which orders are received by each floor broker
  for execution.
  `(4) The Commission may, by rule, establish standards under which the
  audit trail systems required under paragraph (3) shall record, to the
  extent practicable--
  `(A) the sequence of all trades made by all floor traders and floor
  brokers; and
  `(B) the interval between the time of receipt and the time of execution
  of each order by the floor broker executing the order.
  `(5)(A) The Commission shall, by rule or order, make exemptions from the
  requirements of paragraph (3)--
  `(i) for an exchange with respect to which the Commission finds that--
  `(I) the volume of trading on such exchange is relatively small and the
  exchange has demonstrated substantial compliance with the objectives of
  such paragraph; and
  `(II) the trade monitoring system at such exchange otherwise maintains a
  high level of compliance with this subsection; and
  `(ii) to the extent determined appropriate by the Commission, for categories
  of customer orders with respect to which the Commission finds that such
  orders are transmitted to and reported from the trading pit in an extremely
  rapid manner such that substantial compliance with the objectives of
  paragraph (3) can be otherwise achieved.
  `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A)(i)(I) the Commission shall find that
  the volume of trading at an exchange is relatively small if, among other
  things, the Commission determines that the average daily trading volume
  for each contract market for which the board of trade is designated is
  less than the threshold trading level established for the contract market
  under section 4j(a)(4).
  `(6) Any rule or order adopted by the Commission under paragraphs (4)
  and (5) shall become effective thirty legislative days or ninety calendar
  days, whichever is later, after submission of such rule or order to the
  Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee
  on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. For purposes of
  this paragraph, the term `legislative day' means any day on which either
  House of Congress is in session.'.
  (b) STUDY-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than two years after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall submit to the
  Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
  Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report that contains--
  (A) an assessment of the progress of each contract market in developing
  and implementing systems to record the times of transactions independently,
  precisely, and completely as required under section 5a(b) of the Commodity
  Exchange Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section); and
  (B) recommendations as to whether any extension of time for the completion
  of such systems or any modification of the standards contained in such
  section is appropriate.
  (2) GAO VIEWS- The Comptroller General of the United States shall state
  to Congress the views of the Comptroller General with regard to the issues
  addressed in such report.
  (c) AUDIT TRAIL COMPLIANCE AS CONDITION FOR CONTRACT MARKET DESIGNATION-
  Section 5 (7 U.S.C. 7) is amended by--
  (1) indenting the left margin of subdivisions (a) through (g) by 2 ems;
  (2) striking `(a)', `(b)', `(c)', `(d)', `(e)', `(f)', and  `(g)',
  and inserting `(1)', `(2)', `(3)', `(4)', `(5)', `(6)', and `(7)',
  respectively; and
  (3) adding at the end the following:
  `(8) When such board of trade demonstrates that every contract market for
  which such board of trade is designated complies with the requirements of
  section 5a(b).'.
SEC. 202. COMMISSION OVERSIGHT; DEFICIENCY ORDERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after section 8d (7
  U.S.C. 12d) the following new section:
`SEC. 8e. COMMISSION OVERSIGHT; DEFICIENCY ORDERS.
  `(a) ASSESSMENTS- At least once every two years, to the extent practicable,
  the Commission shall assess whether the trade monitoring system of each
  contract market satisfies section 5a(b).
  `(b) DEFICIENCY ORDERS-
  `(1) CAUSES- The Commission may issue a proposed deficiency order in
  accordance with paragraph (2), or take such other administrative or
  enforcement action as the Commission determines is appropriate, if, based
  on its assessment or on other information, the Commission at any time
  has reason to believe that a contract market's trade monitoring system
  implemented pursuant to section 5a(b) does not satisfy one or more of the
  requirements of such section.
  `(2) CONTENTS- A proposed deficiency order issued under this subsection
  shall specify--
  `(A) the deficiencies the Commission has reason to believe exist in the
  trade monitoring system of the contract market and a statement of reasons
  supporting the Commission's belief that those deficiencies exist;
  `(B) the corrective action that the Commission believes that the contract
  market must take and an acceptable timetable for such corrective action; and
  `(C) a date, not less than twenty days from the date of issuance of the
  proposed deficiency order, when such deficiency order will become final,
  subject to subsection (d).
  `(3) REMEDIES- On becoming final, the Commission deficiency order may--
  `(A) require the contract market to--
  `(i) institute appropriate improvements in its trade monitoring system
  necessary to correct the deficiencies noted therein;
  `(ii) satisfy stated objective performance criteria to correct such
  deficiencies;
  `(iii) upgrade or reconfigure existing systems for collecting or processing
  relevant data on trading and trader or broker activity, including, where
  appropriate, the commitment of additional resources; or
  `(B) revoke any exemption of the contract market from the regulations
  prohibiting the privilege of dual trading under section 4j(a), if the
  deficiency noted in such deficiency order relates to--
  `(i) the audit trail system the contract market is required to maintain
  under paragraph (2), (3), or (4) of section 5a(b); or
  `(ii) the prevention, detection, or disciplining of violations attributable
  to such trading at such contract market, subject to the standards,
  exceptions, and duration provisions of section 4j(a); or
  `(C) take any combination of the actions described in subparagraphs (A)
  and (B).
  `(4) REMOVAL- If the Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for
  a hearing on the record prior to such deficiency order becoming final,
  that a named officer, director, committee member, or employee of such
  contract market has willfully--
  `(A) violated this Act, the rules or regulations of the Commission
  thereunder, or the rules of such contract market;
  `(B) abused the authority of such person; or
  `(C) without reasonable justification or excuse, failed to enforce compliance
  with any provision of the rules of such contract market by any member or
  person associated with a member thereof,
the Commission may issue a deficiency order under this section to remove
such officer, director, committee member, or employee.
  `(5) DESIGNATION AS CONTRACT MARKET- Notwithstanding section 6, during
  the period that a proposed or final deficiency order under this section is
  in effect, the Commission may refrain from approving any application for
  designation as a contract market made by the board of trade whose contract
  market is the subject of such deficiency order.
  `(6) DELEGATION- The Commission shall not delegate the authority to issue
  deficiency orders under this subsection.
  `(c) RESCISSION, MODIFICATION, OR DELAY OF DEFICIENCY ORDERS- Before any
  proposed deficiency order issued by the Commission under subsection (b)
  may become final, the Commission shall--
  `(1) provide the affected contract market with an opportunity for a hearing
  through submission of written data, views, or arguments and, under terms
  set by the Commission at the request of the contract market, through an oral
  presentation of views and comments to the Commission, in order to petition
  the Commission to rescind, modify, or delay such deficiency order; and
  `(2) rule on such petition, not less than twenty days before the deficiency
  order takes effect, making findings, as appropriate, as to whether--
  `(A) the deficiencies cited by the Commission have been corrected or are
  being corrected under an expeditious timetable acceptable to the Commission;
  `(B) the trade monitoring system of the contract market is deficient as
  noted in the deficiency order; or
  `(C) the timetable for corrective action by the contract market in the
  proposed deficiency order, and the particular corrective action proposed, is
  appropriate in light of the deficiencies noted and the purposes of this Act.
  `(d) PENALTIES- Violation of a final deficiency order issued under subsection
  (c) shall be considered a violation of an order of the Commission for
  purposes of--
  `(1) establishing liability and assessing penalties against a contract
  market or any director, officer, agent, or employee thereof under section
  6b or 6c; or
  `(2) initiating proceedings under section 5b or 6(a).
  `(e) JUDICIAL REVIEW-
  `(1) PERSONS- Any person, other than a contract market, aggrieved by a
  deficiency order issued under subsection (b)(4), may obtain review of
  such deficiency order when issued by the Commission under the terms and
  conditions in section 6(b).
  `(2) CONTRACT MARKETS- Any contract market that has petitioned the Commission
  to rescind, modify, or delay any proposed deficiency order issued under
  subsection (b) may obtain judicial review of any final such deficiency
  order only in the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which
  the party seeking review resides or has its principal place of business,
  or in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
  Circuit, under the standards applicable to rulemaking proceedings under
  section 553 of title 5, United States Code.'.
SEC. 203. ORAL ORDERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4c (7 U.S.C. 6c) is amended by adding at the end
  the following new subsection:
  `(g) The Commission shall adopt rules requiring that a contemporaneous
  written record be made, as practicable, of all orders for execution on the
  floor or subject to the rules of each contract market placed by a member
  of the contract market who is present on the floor at the time such order
  is placed.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The Commission shall adopt the rules required by the
  amendment made under subsection (a) within two hundred and seventy days
  after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 204. TELEMARKETING FRAUD.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 17(p) (7 U.S.C. 21(p)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) establish special supervisory guidelines to protect the public interest
  relating to the solicitation by telephone of new futures or options accounts
  and make such guidelines applicable to those members determined to require
  such guidelines in accordance with standards established by the Commission
  consistent with this Act. Such guidelines may include a requirement that,
  with respect to a customer with no previous futures or commodity options
  trading experience, the member may not enter an order for the account of
  such customer for a period of three days following opening of the account
  and receipt of a signed acknowledgment by the customer of receipt of a
  risk disclosure statement.'.
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION- The guidelines required under section 17(p)(4) of
  the Commodity Exchange Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section)
  shall be submitted by a futures association registered with the Commodity
  Futures Trading Commission on the date of enactment of this Act to the
  Commission for the approval of the Commission not later than one hundred
  and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 205. UNDERCOVER OPERATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
  Section 8(a) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12(a)) is amended by--
  (1) inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
  (2) adding at the end the following:
  `(2) In conducting investigations authorized under this subsection or
  any other provision of this Act, the Commission shall continue, as the
  Commission determines necessary, to request the assistance of and cooperate
  with the appropriate Federal agencies in the conduct of such investigations,
  including undercover operations by such agencies. The Commission and the
  Department of Justice shall assess the effectiveness of such undercover
  operations and, within two years of the date of enactment of the Futures
  Trading Practices Act of 1992, shall recommend to Congress any additional
  undercover or other authority for the Commission that the Commission or
  the Department of Justice believes to be necessary.'.
SEC. 206. SELF REGULATORY ORGANIZATION DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEES AND GOVERNING
BOARDS.
  (a) CONTRACT MARKETS-
  (1) GOVERNING BOARDS AND DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEES- Subsection (a) of section
  5a (7 U.S.C. 7a) (as amended by sections 201(a)(1) and 217 of this Act)
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(14)(A) provide for meaningful representation on the governing board of
  the contract market's board of trade of a diversity of interests, including--
  `(i) futures commission merchants;
  `(ii) producers of, and consumers, processors, distributors, or merchandisers
  of, principal commodities traded on the board of trade;
  `(iii) floor brokers and traders; and
  `(iv) participants in a variety of pits or principal groups of commodities
  traded on the exchange.
  `(B) provide that no less than 20 percent of the regular voting members
  of such board be comprised of nonmembers of such contract market's board
  of trade with--
  `(i) expertise in futures trading, or the regulation thereof, or in
  commodities traded through contracts on the board of trade; or
  `(ii) other eminent qualifications making such person capable of
  participating in and contributing to board deliberations.
  `(C) provide that no less than 10 percent of the regular voting members of
  such board be comprised where applicable of farmers, producers, merchants,
  or exporters of principal commodities traded on the exchange;
  `(15)(A) provide on all major disciplinary committees for a diversity of
  membership sufficient to ensure fairness and to prevent special treatment
  or preference for any person in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings
  and the assessment of penalties.
  `(B) Consistent with Commission rules, a major disciplinary committee
  hearing a disciplinary matter shall include--
  `(i) a majority of qualified persons representing a trading status other
  than that of the subject of the proceeding; and
  `(ii) where appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act, qualified
  persons who are not members of the exchange.
  `(C) For purposes of this paragraph, a trading status on a contract market
  may include, consistent with Commission rules, such categories as
  (i) floor brokers and traders;
  (ii) producers, consumers, processors, distributors, or merchandisers
  of commodities;
  (iii) futures commission merchants; and
  (iv) members of the aforementioned categories who participate in particular
  contract markets or principal groups of commodities on the board of trade.
  `(D) If a contract market takes final disciplinary action against a member
  for a violation that involves the execution of a customer transaction
  and results in financial harm to such customer, the contract market shall
  promptly inform the futures commission merchant identified on the records
  of such contract market as having cleared such transaction, and such
  futures commission merchant shall promptly inform the person identified
  on its records as the owner of the account for which such transaction was
  executed, of the disciplinary action and the principal facts thereof;
  `(16) provide that no member found by the Commission, a contract market,
  a registered futures association, or a court of competent jurisdiction to
  have committed any violation of this Act or any other provision of law that
  would reflect on the fitness of the member may serve on any contract market
  oversight or disciplinary panel for an appropriate period (as defined by
  Commission rule); and'.
  (2) MAJOR DISCIPLINARY RULE VIOLATIONS- Section 8c (7 U.S.C. 12c)
  is amended--
  (A) by redesignating subsections (1) through (4) as subsections (a) through
  (d);
  (B) in subsection (a), as so redesignated--
  (i) by striking `(A)' and inserting `(1)'; and
  (ii) by striking `(B)' and inserting `(2)';
  (C) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking `subsection (2)'
  each place it appears and inserting `subsection (b)';
  (D) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking `subsection (1)'
  and inserting `subsection (a)'; and
  (E) by adding at the end the following:
  `(e)(1) The Commission shall issue regulations requiring each contract market
  to establish and make available to the public a schedule of major violations
  of any rule within the disciplinary jurisdiction of such contract market.
  `(2) The regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to this subsection
  shall prohibit, for a period of time to be determined by the Commission,
  any individual who is found to have committed any major violation from
  service on the governing board of any contract market or registered futures
  association, or on any disciplinary committee thereof.'.
  (b) Registered Futures Associations-
  (1) GOVERNING BOARDS AND DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEES- Section 17(b) (7
  U.S.C. 21(b)) is amended--
  (A) in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (3) by striking `or' at
  the end;
  (B) in paragraphs (3)(D), (4)(A), (4)(B), (4)(C), (4)(D), (4)(F), (5),
  (6), (7), (8), (9), (9)(A), (9)(B), and (9)(D) by striking the period at
  the end and inserting a semicolon;
  (C) in paragraphs (4)(E), (9)(C), and (10) by striking the period at the
  end and inserting `; and'; and
  (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(11) such association provides for meaningful representation on the
  governing board of such association of a diversity of membership interests
  and provides that no less than 20 percent of the regular voting members
  of such board be comprised of qualified nonmembers of or persons who are
  not regulated by such association.
  `(12)(A) such association provides on all major disciplinary committees
  for a diversity of membership sufficient to ensure fairness and to prevent
  special treatment or preference for any person in the conduct of disciplinary
  proceedings and the assessment of penalties.
  `(13) A major disciplinary committee hearing a disciplinary matter shall
  include--
  `(A) qualified persons representing segments of the association membership
  other than that of the subject of the proceeding; and
  `(B) where appropriate to carry out the purposes of this paragraph,
  qualified persons who are not members of the association.'.
  (2) MAJOR DISCIPLINARY RULE VIOLATIONS- Section 17 (7 U.S.C. 21), as amended
  by section 204, is amended by inserting after subsection (p) the following:
  `(q)(1) The Commission shall issue regulations requiring each registered
  futures association to establish and make available to the public a schedule
  of major violations of any rule within the disciplinary jurisdiction of
  such registered futures association.
  `(2) The regulations issued by the Commission pursuant to this subsection
  shall prohibit, for a period of time to be determined by the Commission, any
  member of a registered futures association who is found to have committed any
  major violation from service on the governing board of any registered futures
  association or contract market, or on any disciplinary committee thereof.'.
  (c) IMPLEMENTATION- Not later than two hundred and seventy days after the
  date of enactment of this Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
  shall adopt such rules as are necessary to carry out the amendments made
  by subsections (a) and (b), including rules that--
  (1) specify membership categories that shall be represented on disciplinary
  panels;
  (2) define `major disciplinary committee' for purposes of sections 5a(a)(15)
  and 17(b)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act (as added by subsections (a)
  and (b), respectively); and
  (3) specify the conditions under which such panels shall include qualified
  persons who are not members of the exchange or association, which shall
  include at a minimum--
  (A) any disciplinary action where the subject of such action is a member
  of the contract market or association governing board or of any major
  disciplinary committee of such contract market or association; and
  (B) any disciplinary action based on facts related to a claim that the
  subject of such action manipulated or attempted to manipulate the price
  of a commodity or future or option.
SEC. 207. REQUIRED REGISTRATION OF FLOOR TRADERS.
  (a) REQUIREMENT- Section 4e (7 U.S.C. 6e) is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 4e. It shall be unlawful for any person to act as floor trader in
  executing purchases and sales, or as floor broker in executing any orders
  for the purchase or sale, of any commodity for future delivery, or involving
  any contracts of sale of any commodity for future delivery, on or subject to
  the rules of any contract market unless such person shall have registered,
  under this Act, with the Commission as such floor trader or floor broker and
  such registration shall not have expired nor been suspended nor revoked.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Act is amended--
  (1) in sections 4f(1), 4g(1), and 6d(1) (7 U.S.C. 6f(1), 6g(1), 13a-2(1)),
  by striking `or floor broker' and inserting `floor broker, or floor trader';
  (2) in section 6d(8)(A) (7 U.S.C. 13a-2(8)(A)), by inserting `, floor
  trader,' after `floor broker';
  (3) in section 8a(1), (7 U.S.C. 12a(1)), by striking `and floor brokers'
  and inserting `floor brokers, and floor traders'; and
  (4) in sections 8a(2)(C)(i), 8a(2)(D)(ii), and 8a(3)(E)(ii) (7
  U.S.C. 12a(2)(C)(i), 12a(2)(D)(ii), and 12a(3)(E)(ii)), by inserting
  `floor trader,' after `floor broker,'.
  (c) REGULATIONS- The amendments made by this section shall become effective
  one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall issue any regulations
  necessary to implement the amendments made by this section no later than
  one hundred and eighty days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 208. ENHANCEMENT OF REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) INJUNCTIONS- Section 8a(2)(C)(ii) (7 U.S.C. 12a(2)(C)(ii)) is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(ii) engaging in or continuing any activity where such activity
  involves embezzlement, theft, extortion, fraud, fraudulent conversion,
  misappropriation of funds, securities or property, forgery, counterfeiting,
  false pretenses, bribery, gambling, or any transaction in or advice
  concerning contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, concerning
  matters subject to Commission regulation under section 4c or 19, or
  concerning securities'.
  (b) CERTAIN VIOLATIONS OF LAW- Section 8a(2)(D)(iv) (7 U.S.C. 12a(2)(D)(iv))
  is amended by--
  (1) inserting `1001,' after `152,';
  (2) striking `or' after `1342,';
  (3) inserting `1503, 1623, 1961, 1962, 1963, or 2314,' after `1343,'; and
  (4) inserting `, or section 7201 or 7206 of the Internal Revenue Code of
  1986' after `Code'.
  (c) OTHER VIOLATIONS OF LAW- Section 8a(2)(E) (7 U.S.C. 12a(2)(E))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `by any court of competent jurisdiction,' and inserting
  `in a proceeding brought'; and
  (2) in clause (i) by inserting `chapter 96 of title 18 of the United States
  Code,' after `1977,'.
  (d) REGISTRATION REVOCATION BASED ON INACCURATE STATEMENTS- Section 8a(2)(G)
  (7 U.S.C. 12a(2)(G)) is amended by--
  (1) striking `subparagraphs (A) through (F) of this paragraph,' and inserting
  `this paragraph and paragraph (3),';
  (2) striking `material' the first place it appears and inserting
  `materially'; and
  (3) striking `application' and inserting `application or any update thereto'.
  (e) GENERAL FELONY CONVICTIONS- Section 8a(3)(D) (7 U.S.C. 12a(3)(D))
  is amended by--
  (1) inserting `pleaded guilty to or' after `person';
  (2) inserting a comma after `section' the first place it appears;
  (3) striking `within ten years preceding the filing of the application or
  at any time thereafter,';
  (4) striking `, including a felony'; and
  (5) striking `, more than' and inserting `more than'.
  (f) SPECIAL FELONY CONVICTIONS- Section 8a(3)(E) (7 U.S.C. 12a(3)(E))
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `pleaded guilty to or' after `person';
  (2) by striking `within ten years preceding the filing of the application
  for registration or at any time thereafter'; and
  (3) in clause (iv) by inserting `, or section 7203, 7204, 7205, or 7207
  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986' after `Code'.
  (g) REGISTRATION DENIED OR CONDITIONED BASED ON INACCURATE STATEMENTS-
  Section 8a(3)(G) (7 U.S.C. 12a(3)(G)) is amended by--
  (1) striking `material' the first place it appears and inserting
  `materially';
  (2) striking the comma after `application';
  (3) inserting `or any update thereto,' after `application';
  (4) striking `thereunder, or' and inserting `thereunder,'; and
  (5) inserting `or in any registration disqualification proceeding' after
  `Commission'.
  (h) NON-FEDERAL CRIMINAL CONDUCT- Section 8a(3)(H) (7 U.S.C. 12a(3)(H))
  is amended by inserting `, in a United States military court,' after
  `State court'.
  (i) EXISTING RESTRICTIONS ON MEMBERSHIPS- Section 8a(3)(J) (7
  U.S.C. 12a(3)(J)) is amended by--
  (1) striking `or' after `association,' the first place it appears;
  (2) inserting `or any foreign regulatory body that the Commission recognizes
  as having a comparable regulatory program' after `organization,' the first
  place it appears;
  (3) striking `or' after `association,' the second place it appears; and
  (4) striking `organization;' and inserting `organization, or foreign
  regulatory body;'.
SEC. 209. ENFORCEMENT OF CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES.
  (a) MONEY PENALTIES- Section 6 (7 U.S.C. 8 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (a) through (d) as subsections (b) through
  (e), respectively;
  (2) by inserting `(a)' after `Sec. 6';
  (3) in subsection (a), as so redesignated, by striking `paragraph (a)'
  and inserting `subsection (b)';
  (4) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
  (A) by striking `paragraph (b) of this section' and inserting `subsection
  (c)'; and
  (B) by striking `section 6(b) of this Act' and inserting `subsection
  (c)'; and
  (5) by amending subsection (e), as so redesignated, to read as follows:
  `(e)(1) In determining the amount of the money penalty assessed under
  subsection (c), the Commission shall consider the appropriateness of such
  penalty to the gravity of the violation.
  `(2) Unless the person against whom a money penalty is assessed under
  subsection (c) shows to the satisfaction of the Commission within fifteen
  days from the expiration of the period allowed for payment of such
  penalty that either an appeal as authorized by subsection (c) has been
  taken or payment of the full amount of the penalty then due has been made,
  at the end of such fifteen-day period and until such person shows to the
  satisfaction of the Commission that payment of such amount with interest
  thereon to date of payment has been made--
  `(A) such person shall be prohibited automatically from trading on all
  contract markets; and
  `(B) if such person is registered with the Commission, such registration
  shall be suspended automatically.
  `(3) If a person against whom a money penalty is assessed under subsection
  (c) takes an appeal and if the Commission prevails or the appeal is
  dismissed, unless such person shows to the satisfaction of the Commission
  that payment of the full amount of the penalty then due has been made by
  the end of thirty days from the date of entry of judgment on the appeal--
  `(A) such person shall be prohibited automatically from trading on all
  contract markets; and
  `(B) if such person is registered with the Commission, such registration
  shall be suspended automatically.
If the person against whom the money penalty is assessed fails to pay
such penalty after the lapse of the period allowed for appeal or after
the affirmance of such penalty, the Commission may refer the matter to the
Attorney General who shall recover such penalty by action in the appropriate
United States district court.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et
  seq.) is amended--
  (1) in section 2(a)(1)(B)(iv)--
  (A) in subclause (I) by striking `section 6(b)' and inserting `section
  6(c)'; and
  (B) in subclause (II) by striking `section 6(a)' and inserting `section
  6(b)';
  (2) in section 5(6), as so redesignated by section 201(c)(2), by striking
  `paragraph (b) of section 6' and inserting `section 6(c)';
  (3) in section 5b by striking `paragraph (a) of section 6' and inserting
  `section 6(b)';
  (4) in section 6a(1) by striking `paragraph (a) of section 6' and inserting
  `section 6(b)';
  (5) in section 6b by striking `paragraph (a) of section 6' and inserting
  `section 6(b)';
  (6) in section 8a--
  (A) in the first proviso to paragraph (2) by striking `section 6(b)'
  and inserting `section 6(c)';
  (B) in the second proviso to paragraph (3) by striking `section 6(b)'
  and inserting `section 6(c)'; and
  (C) in paragraph (4) by striking `section 6(b)' each place it appears and
  inserting `section 6(c)';
  (7) in section 14(e) by striking `paragraph (b) of section 6' and inserting
  `section 6(c)'; and
  (8) in section 17--
  (A) in subsection (b)--
  (i) in paragraph (3)(B) by striking `section 6(b)' and inserting `section
  6(c)'; and
  (ii) in paragraph (4)(F) by striking `subsection (b) of section 6' and
  inserting `section 6(c)';
  (B) in subsection (i)(4) by striking `section 6(b)' and inserting `section
  6(c)'; and
  (C) in subsection (o)(4) by striking `section 6(b)' and inserting `section
  6(c)'.
SEC. 210. ETHICS TRAINING FOR REGISTRANTS.
  (a) MANDATORY TRAINING FOR REGISTRANTS- Section 4p (7 U.S.C. 6p) is
  amended by--
  (1) inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 4p.'; and
  (2) adding at the end the following:
  `(b) The Commission shall issue regulations to require new registrants,
  within six months after receiving such registration, to attend a training
  session, and all other registrants to attend periodic training sessions,
  to ensure that registrants understand their responsibilities to the public
  under this Act, including responsibilities to observe just and equitable
  principles of trade, any rule or regulation of the Commission, any rule of
  any appropriate contract market, registered futures association, or other
  self-regulatory organization, or any other applicable Federal or state law,
  rule or regulation.'.
  (b) REGULATIONS- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall issue the
  regulations required by section 4p(b) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as
  added by subsection (a), no later than one hundred and eighty days after
  the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 211. NATIONWIDE SERVICE OF PROCESS AND VENUE.
  Section 22(c) (7 U.S.C. 25(c)) is amended to read as follows:
   `(c) The United States district courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction
   of actions brought under this section. Any such action shall be brought
   not later than two years after the date the cause of action arises. Any
   action brought under subsection (a) of this section may be brought in any
   judicial district wherein the defendant is found, resides, or transacts
   business, or in the judicial district wherein any act or transaction
   constituting the violation occurs. Process in such action may be served in
   any judicial district of which the defendant is an inhabitant or wherever
   the defendant may be found.'.
SEC. 212. INCREASED PENALTIES.
  (a) FELONY VIOLATIONS- Section 9 (7 U.S.C. 13) is amended--
  (1) by--
  (A) striking subsections (a), (b), and (c);
  (B) redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d),
  respectively; and
  (C) inserting before subsection (c), as redesignated, the following new
  subsections:
  `(a) It shall be a felony punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000,000
  (or $500,000 in the case of a person who is an individual) or imprisonment
  for not more than five years, or both, together with the costs of
  prosecution, for:
  `(1) Any person registered or required to be registered under this Act,
  or any employee or agent thereof, to embezzle, steal, purloin, or with
  criminal intent convert to such person's use or to the use of another,
  any money, securities, or property having a value in excess of $100,
  which was received by such person or any employee or agent thereof to
  margin, guarantee, or secure the trades or contracts of any customer or
  accruing to such customer as a result of such trades or contracts or which
  otherwise was received from any customer, client, or pool participant in
  connection with the business of such person. The word `value' as used in
  this paragraph means face, par, or market value, or cost price, either
  wholesale or retail, whichever is greater.
  `(2) Any person to manipulate or attempt to manipulate the price of any
  commodity in interstate commerce, or for future delivery on or subject to
  the rules of any contract market, or to corner or attempt to corner any such
  commodity or knowingly to deliver or cause to be delivered for transmission
  through the mails or interstate commerce by telegraph, telephone, wireless,
  or other means of communication false or misleading or knowingly inaccurate
  reports concerning crop or market information or conditions that affect
  or tend to affect the price of any commodity in interstate commerce, or
  knowingly to violate the provisions of section 4, section 4b, subsections
  (a) through (e) of subsection 4c, section 4h, section 4o(1), or section 19.
  `(3) Any person knowingly to make, or cause to be made, any statement
  in any application, report, or document required to be filed under this
  Act or any rule or regulation thereunder or any undertaking contained
  in a registration statement required under this Act, or by any contract
  market or registered futures association in connection with an application
  for membership or participation therein or to become associated with a
  member thereof, which statement was false or misleading with respect to
  any material fact, or knowingly to omit any material fact required to be
  stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
  `(4) Any person willfully to falsify, conceal, or cover up by any
  trick, scheme, or artifice a material fact, make any false, fictitious,
  or fraudulent statements or representations, or make or use any false
  writing or document knowing the same to contain any false, fictitious,
  or fraudulent statement or entry to a contract market, board of trade,
  or futures association designated or registered under this Act acting in
  furtherance of its official duties under this Act.
  `(5) Any person willfully to violate any other provision of this Act, or
  any rule or regulation thereunder, the violation of which is made unlawful
  or the observance of which is required under the terms of this Act, but
  no person shall be subject to imprisonment under this paragraph for the
  violation of any rule or regulation if such person proves that he had no
  knowledge of such rule or regulation.
  `(b) Any person convicted of a felony under this section shall be suspended
  from registration under this Act and shall be denied registration or
  reregistration for five years or such longer period as the Commission
  may determine, and barred from using, or participating in any manner in,
  any market regulated by the Commission for five years or such longer
  period as the Commission shall determine, on such terms and conditions as
  the Commission may prescribe, unless the Commission determines that the
  imposition of such suspension, denial of registration or reregistration, or
  market bar is not required to protect the public interest. The Commission
  may upon petition later review such disqualification and market bar and
  for good cause shown reduce the period thereof.';
  (2) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this section)
  by striking `$100,000' and inserting `$500,000'; and
  (3) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this section)
  by striking `$100,000' and inserting `$500,000'.
  (b) OTHER VIOLATIONS- Section 6(c) and 6(d) (7 U.S.C. 9 and 13b), as such
  subsections are redesignated by section 209, are each amended by striking
  `$100,000' each place it appears and inserting `the higher of $100,000 or
  triple the monetary gain to such person'.
  (c) NONENFORCEMENT OF RULES OF GOVERNMENT OR OTHER VIOLATIONS- Section 6b
  (7 U.S.C. 13a) is amended--
  (1) by striking `$100,000' each place it appears and inserting `$500,000';
  and
  (2) in the last sentence, by striking `the appropriateness of such penalty
  to the net worth of the offending person and'.
SEC. 213. CONTRACT MARKET EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
  (a) PRIOR COMMISSION NOTIFICATION REQUIRED- Section 5a(a)(12) (7
  U.S.C. 7a(12)), as redesignated by section 201, is amended--
  (1) by striking `(12) except' and inserting `(12)(A) except'; and
  (2) by striking the last two sentences of paragraph (12)(A) as so
  redesignated, and inserting the following:
  `(B)(i) The Commission shall issue regulations to specify the terms and
  conditions under which, in an emergency as defined by the Commission,
  a contract market may, by a two-thirds vote of its governing board, make
  a rule (hereinafter referred to as an `emergency rule') effective on a
  temporary basis without prior Commission approval, or without compliance
  with  the ten-day notice requirement under subparagraph (A), or during
  any period of review by the Commission, if the contract market makes every
  effort practicable to notify the Commission of such emergency rule, along
  with a complete explanation of the emergency involved, prior to making
  the emergency rule effective. If the contract market does not provide the
  Commission with such notification and explanation before making the emergency
  rule effective, the contract market shall provide the Commission with such
  notification and explanation at the earliest possible date. The Commission
  may delegate the power to receive such notification and explanation to
  such individuals as the Commission determines necessary and appropriate.
  `(ii) Within ten days of the receipt from a contract market of notification
  of such an emergency rule and an explanation of the emergency involved,
  or as soon as practicable, the Commission shall determine whether it is
  appropriate either--
  `(I) to permit such rule to remain in effect during the pendency of the
  emergency, or
  `(II) to suspend the effect of such rule pending review either under the
  procedures of subparagraph (A) or otherwise.
The Commission shall submit a report on its determination and the basis thereof
with respect to such emergency rule to the affected contract market, to the
Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee
on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. If the report is
submitted more than ten days after the Commission's receipt of notification of
such an emergency rule from a contract market, the report shall explain  why
submission within such ten-day period was not practicable. A determination by
the Commission to suspend the effect of a rule under this subparagraph shall
be subject to judicial review on the same basis as an emergency determination
under section 8a(9). Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit
the authority of the Commission under section 8a(9);'.
  (b) REGULATIONS- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall issue
  regulations to implement section 5a(12)(B) of the Commodity Exchange Act,
  as added by subsection (a), no later than one hundred and eighty days
  after the date of enactment of this Act. Until the effective date of such
  regulations, any regulation of the Commission that implements the last two
  sentences of section 5a(12), as such sentences were in effect immediately
  before the date of enactment of this Act, shall remain in effect.
SEC. 214. PROHIBITION AGAINST INSIDER TRADING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 9 (7 U.S.C. 13) is amended by adding at the end
  the following:
  `(f) It shall be a felony for any person--
  `(1) who is an employee, member of the governing board, or member of
  any committee of a board of trade, contract market, or registered futures
  association, in violation of a regulation issued by the Commission, willfully
  and knowingly to trade for such person's own account, or for or on behalf
  of any other account, in contracts for future delivery or options thereon
  on the basis of, or willfully and knowingly to disclose for any purpose
  inconsistent with the performance of such person's official duties as an
  employee or member, any material nonpublic information obtained through
  special access related to the performance of such duties.
  (2) willfully and knowingly to trade for such person's own account, or
  for or on behalf of any other account, in contracts for future delivery or
  options thereon on the basis of any material nonpublic information that such
  person knows was obtained in violation of paragraph (1) from an employee,
  member of the governing board, or member of any committee of a board of
  trade, contract market, or registered futures association.
Such felony shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500,000, plus
the amount of any profits realized from such trading or disclosure made in
violation of this subsection,  or imprisonment for not more than five years,
or both, together with the costs of prosecution.'.
  (b) REGULATIONS- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall issue
  regulations to implement the amendment made by subsection (a) not later
  than  three hundred and sixty days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 215. QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS.
  Section 2(a)(2)(A) (7 U.S.C. 4a(a)(1)) is amended by striking the second
  and third sentences and inserting the following: `The Commission shall be
  composed of five Commissioners who shall be appointed by the President,
  by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. In nominating persons
  for appointment, the President shall--
  `(i) select persons who shall each have demonstrated knowledge in futures
  trading or its regulation, or the production, merchandising, processing or
  distribution of one or more of the commodities or other goods and articles,
  services, rights, and interests covered by this Act; and
  `(ii) seek to ensure that the demonstrated knowledge of the Commissioners
  is balanced with respect to such areas.'.
SEC. 216. COMMISSION OPERATIONS.
  Section 12(b) (7 U.S.C. 16(b)) is amended--
  (1) by designating the first through third sentences as paragraphs (1)
  through (3), respectively; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) The Commission may request (in accordance with the procedures set
  forth in subchapter II of chapter 31 of title 5, United States Code) and
  the Office of Personnel Management shall authorize pursuant to the request,
  eight positions in the Senior Executive Service in addition to the number
  of such positions authorized for the Commission on the date of enactment
  of this sentence.'.
SEC. 217. PROHIBITION ON VOTING BY INTERESTED MEMBERS.
  Subsection (a) of section 5a (7 U.S.C. 7a) (as amended by sections 201(a) and
  206(a)(1) of this Act) is further amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(17)(A)  provide for the avoidance of conflict of interest in deliberations
  by the governing board and any disciplinary and oversight committees. In
  order to comply with this subparagraph, each contract market shall adopt
  rules and procedures to require, at a minimum, that
  `(i) any member of a governing board or a disciplinary or other oversight
  committee must abstain from confidential deliberations and voting on
  any matter where the named party in interest is the member, the member's
  employer, the member's employee, or any other person that has a business,
  employment, or family relationship with the member that warrants abstention
  by the member;
  `(ii) any member of a governing board or a disciplinary or other oversight
  committee must abstain from voting on any significant action that would not
  be submitted to the Commission for its prior approval, if, as determined
  in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Commission, the member
  knowingly has a direct and substantial financial interest in the result of
  the vote, based either on positions held personally or at an affiliated firm;
  `(iii) prior to the deliberations of the governing board, disciplinary
  board, or other oversight committee, acting directly or indirectly through
  an authorized member or contract market official, the positions of the
  members of such board or committee, and positions of the firm or firms with
  which such members are affiliated, are reviewed: Provided, however, That
  no contract market or official, employee, member, other than the member
  whose position or positions are being reviewed, or agent thereof shall be
  subject to liability, except for liability in an action initiated by the
  Commission, for having conducted this review and for having taken or not
  taken further action; and
  `(iv) the board or committee shall clearly reflect, in the minutes of
  such meeting, that the review required in clause (iii) occurred and any
  decisions by a member to abstain or by the board or committee whether to
  direct a member or members to abstain from deliberations or voting on the
  matter before the board or committee.
Any member prohibited from voting on a rule pursuant to this paragraph shall
not be included in determining whether there has been a two-thirds vote of
members of the governing board or committee as required by subparagraph (12).
  `(B) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term `significant action that
  would not be submitted to the Commission for its prior approval' includes--
  `(i) any nonphysical emergency rule; or
  `(ii) any changes in margin levels designed to respond to extraordinary
  market conditions that are likely to have a substantial affect on prices in
  any contract traded on such contract market, but does not include any rule
  not submitted for prior Commission approval because such rule is unrelated
  to terms and conditions of any contract traded on such contract market.
  `(C) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (A)(ii), the Commission
  shall issue rules establishing the conditions under which a member of a board
  or committee who is required to abstain from voting on a significant action,
  as provided in subparagraph (A)(ii), may participate in deliberations
  on that action prior to such vote, where the member's participation is
  consistent with the public interest.'.
SEC. 218. STUDY OF ASSESSMENTS ON TRANSACTIONS.
  (a) STUDY- The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a
  study to determine whether--
  (1) it is feasible to fund some or all of the enforcement and market
  surveillance activities of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
  as required by the amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act made by
  the Futures Trading Practices Act of 1992, through the imposition of an
  assessment on commodity futures and options transactions executed pursuant
  to the Commodity Exchange Act; and
  (2) a program of assessment-based funding for some or all of such enforcement
  and market surveillance activities would better provide resources to the
  Commodity Futures Trading Commission to enable the Commission to--
  (A) protect the interests of market users (including hedgers and
  speculators), producers of commodities traded on the futures markets,
  and the general public; and
  (B) maintain and enhance the credibility of such futures and options markets.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of
  the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
  and Forestry of the Senate a report containing the Comptroller General's
  determinations pursuant to subsection (a), together with any appropriate
  recommendations for the implementation of such a program of assessment-based
  funding for some or all of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission's
  enforcement and market surveillance activities.
SEC. 219. COMPETITIVENESS STUDY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- No later than eighteen months following the enactment
  of this Act, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall study the
  competitiveness of boards of trade over which it has jurisdiction compared
  with the boards of trade (or their foreign equivalent) over which foreign
  futures authorities, as defined in section 2(a)(1)(A) of the Commodity
  Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(a)(1)(A)), have jurisdiction, and submit to the
  Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee
  on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate a report of its
  findings with respect to--
  (1) the overall competitive status of United States boards of trade in
  the world market;
  (2) a comparison of applicable statutes, rules, or regulations as they
  relate to futures and options administered and enforced by the Commission
  and those administered and enforced by foreign futures authorities;
  (3) any trends in, or movements of, volume of futures and options trading
  to or from United States boards of trade during the period of the study,
  and whether such trends or movements, if any, were the result of the
  adoption of statutes, regulations, or other enforcement mechanisms in
  foreign countries or the United States, as opposed to other competitive,
  economic, regional, or commercial factors;
  (4) any significant harms or risks to the public interest, market users,
  traders, and commerce in relation to futures or options traded on such
  foreign boards of trade which may result from the absence of statutes,
  regulations, or other enforcement mechanisms in foreign countries or the
  United States or disparities in regulatory protections offered by United
  States and foreign authorities; and
  (5) any recommendations the Commission may have as a result of the study to
  enhance the competitive status of United States boards of trade in the world
  market, or to enhance the regulations of markets in the global environment,
  that will not impair customer confidence in United States boards of trade.
  (b) COOPERATION- To promote the efficient use of resources, the Commission
  shall endeavor, as it determines appropriate, to obtain the assistance
  of the General Accounting Office, the Office of the United States Trade
  Representative, or other appropriate offices of the Federal Government in
  order to obtain information with regard to trading at foreign boards of trade
  and the regulation of such boards of trade by foreign futures authorities.
SEC. 220. COMPUTERIZED FUTURES TRADING.
  (a) INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS OF ELECTRONIC TRADING SYSTEMS- Section 12
  (7 U.S.C. 16) (as amended by section 303 of this Act) is further amended
  by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(g) Consistent with its responsibilities under section 18, the Commission
  is directed to facilitate the development and operation of computerized
  trading as an adjunct to the open outcry auction system. The Commission is
  further directed to cooperate with the Office of the United States Trade
  Representative, the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Commerce,
  and the Department of State in order to remove any trade barriers that
  may be imposed by a foreign nation on the international use of electronic
  trading systems.'.
  (b) STUDY- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall conduct a study
  to assess--
  (1) the progress made under initiatives to conduct trading in futures and
  options subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission under the Commodity
  Exchange Act through systems of computers or by other electronic means; and
  (2) whether the experience with such systems of trading indicates that
  they may be useful or effective to enhance access to the futures and
  options markets by potential market participants, improve the ability of
  the Commission to audit the activities of the futures and options markets,
  reduce the opportunity for trading abuses, and otherwise be in the public
  interest or raise other related issues.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than two years after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
  of the Senate a report containing the results of the study conducted under
  subsection (a), together with any appropriate recommendations.
SEC. 221. MONEY PENALTIES IN CIVIL COURT ACTIONS.
  Section 6c (7 U.S.C. 13c) is amended--
  (1) by designating the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
  sentences as subsections (a), (b), (c), (e), (f), and (g), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (c) (as so designated) the following
  new subsection:
  `(d)(1) In any action brought under this section, the Commission may seek
  and the court shall have jurisdiction to impose, on a proper showing,
  on any person found in the action to have committed any violation a civil
  penalty in the amount of not more than the higher of $100,000 or triple
  the monetary gain to the person for each violation.
  `(2) If a person on whom such a penalty is imposed fails to pay the penalty
  within the time prescribed in the court's order, the Commission may refer
  the matter to the Attorney General who shall recover the penalty by action
  in the appropriate United States district court.'.
SEC. 222. CIVIL DAMAGES; LIABILITY OF FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANTS.
  (a) DUTIES OF CONTRACT MARKETS- Subsection (a)(11) of section 5a (7
  U.S.C. 7a) (as amended by section 201(a)(1) of this Act) is further amended--
  (1) by striking `(i)' and inserting `(A)';
  (2) by striking `voluntary and (ii)' and inserting `voluntary, (B)'; and
  (3) by inserting after the word `market' the following: `, and (C)
  in the case of a claim arising from a violation in the execution of an
  order on the floor of a contract market, such procedure shall provide,
  to the extent appropriate--
  `(i) for payment of actual damages proximately caused by such violation. If
  an award of actual damages is made against a floor broker in connection with
  the execution of a customer order, and the futures commission merchant which
  selected the floor broker for the execution of the customer order is held
  to be responsible under section 2(a)(1) for the floor broker's violation,
  such futures commission merchant may be required to satisfy such award; and
  `(ii) where the violation is willful and intentional, for payment to the
  customer of punitive or exemplary damages, in addition to losses proximately
  caused by the violation, in an amount equal to no more than two times the
  amount of such losses. If punitive or exemplary damages are awarded against
  a floor broker in connection with the execution of a customer order, and
  the futures commission merchant which selected the floor broker for the
  execution of such order is held to be responsible under section 2(a)(1)
  for the floor broker's violation, such futures commission merchant may
  be required to satisfy the award of punitive or exemplary damages if the
  floor broker fails to do so, except that such requirement shall apply to
  the futures commission merchant only if it willfully and intentionally
  selected the floor broker with the intent to assist or facilitate the
  floor broker's violation;'.
  (b) COMPLAINTS AGAINST REGISTERED PERSONS- Section 14(a) (7 U.S.C. 18(a))
  is amended by striking `awarding actual damages proximately caused by such
  violation.' and inserting `awarding--
  `(1) actual damages proximately caused by such violation. If an award
  of actual damages is made against a floor broker in connection with the
  execution of a customer order, and the futures commission merchant which
  selected the floor broker for the execution of the customer order is held
  to be responsible under section 2(a)(1) for the floor broker's violation,
  such futures commission merchant may be required to satisfy such award; and
  `(2) in the case of any action arising from a willful and intentional
  violation in the execution of an order on the floor of a contract market,
  punitive or exemplary damages equal to no more than two times the amount
  of such actual damages. If an award of punitive or exemplary damages is
  made against a floor broker in connection with the execution of a customer
  order, and the futures commission merchant which selected the floor broker
  for the execution of the customer order is held to be responsible under
  section 2(a)(1) for the floor broker's violation, such futures commission
  merchant may be required to satisfy such award if the floor broker fails to
  do so, except that such requirement shall apply to the futures commission
  merchant only if it willfully and intentionally selected the floor broker
  with the intent to assist or facilitate the floor broker's violation.'.
  (c) REGISTERED FUTURES ASSOCIATIONS- Section 17(b)(10) (7 U.S.C. 21(b)(10))
  (as amended by section 206(b)(1) of this Act) is further amended--
  (1) by striking `(i)' and inserting `(A)';
  (2) by striking `voluntary and (ii)' and inserting `voluntary, (B)'; and
  (3) by inserting after the word `association' the following: `, and (C)
  in the case of a claim arising from a violation in the execution of an
  order on the floor of a contract market, such procedure shall provide,
  to the extent appropriate--
  `(i) for payment of actual damages proximately caused by such violation. If
  an award of actual damages is made against a floor broker in connection with
  the execution of a customer order, and the futures commission merchant which
  selected the floor broker for the execution of the customer order is held
  to be responsible under section 2(a)(1) for the floor broker's violation,
  such futures commission merchant may be required to satisfy such award; and
  `(ii) where the violation is willful and intentional, for payment to the
  customer of punitive or exemplary damages, in addition to losses proximately
  caused by the violation, in an amount equal to no more than two times the
  amount of such losses. If punitive or exemplary damages are awarded against
  a floor broker in connection with the execution of a customer order, and
  the futures commission merchant which selected the floor broker for the
  execution of such order is held to be responsible under section 2(a)(1)
  for the floor broker's violation, such futures commission merchant may
  be required to satisfy the award of punitive or exemplary damages if the
  floor broker fails to do so, except that such requirement shall apply to
  the futures commission merchant only if it willfully and intentionally
  selected the floor broker with the intent to assist or facilitate the
  floor broker's violation'.
  (d) PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTION- Section 22(a) (7 U.S.C. 25(a)) is amended
  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) In any action arising from a violation in the execution of an order
  on the floor of a contract market, the person referred to in paragraph
  (1) shall be liable for--
  `(A) actual damages proximately caused by such violation. If an award
  of actual damages is made against a floor broker in connection with the
  execution of a customer order, and the futures commission merchant which
  selected the floor broker for the execution of the customer order is held
  to be responsible under section 2(a)(1) for the floor broker's violation,
  such futures commission merchant may be required to satisfy such award; and
  `(B) where the violation is willful and intentional, punitive or exemplary
  damages equal to no more than two times the amount of such actual damages. If
  an award of punitive or exemplary damages is made against a floor broker
  in connection with the execution of a customer order, and the futures
  commission merchant which selected the floor broker for the execution
  of the customer order is held to be responsible under section 2(a)(1)
  for the floor broker's violation, such futures commission merchant may be
  required to satisfy such award if the floor broker fails to do so, except
  that such requirement shall apply to the futures commission merchant only
  if it willfully and intentionally selected the floor broker with the intent
  to assist or facilitate the floor broker's violation.'.
SEC. 223. CUSTOMER RESTITUTION.
  The tenth sentence of section 6(c) (7 U.S.C. 9) (as redesignated by section
  209(a)(1) of this Act) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `may' the first place it appears;
  (2) by striking `and, if' and inserting `(2) if';
  (3) by striking `may suspend' and inserting `suspend';
  (4) by striking `and may' and inserting `(3)'; and
  (5) by inserting before the period the following: `and (4) require
  restitution to customers of damages proximately caused by violations of
  such persons'.
SEC. 224. COMPLAINTS AGAINST REGISTERED PERSONS; CLASS ACTION SUITS.
  Section 14(a) (7 U.S.C. 18(a)) (as amended by section 222(b) of this Act)
  is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), respectively;
  (2) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2)(A) An action may be brought under this subsection by any one or more
  persons described in this subsection for and in behalf of such person or
  persons and other persons similarly situated, if the Commission permits
  such actions pursuant to a final rule issued by the Commission.
  `(B) Not later than two hundred and seventy days after the date of
  enactment of this paragraph, the Commission shall propose and publish
  for public comment such rules as are necessary to carry out subparagraph
  (A). In developing such rules, the Commission shall consider the potential
  impact of such actions on resources available to the reparations system
  established under this Act and the relative merits of bringing such actions
  in Federal court.'.
SEC. 225. PENALTIES STUDY AND GUIDELINES.
  (a) STUDY- The Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall study the
  penalties the Commission imposes against persons found to have violated
  the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) and the penalties imposed
  by contract markets and registered futures associations against persons
  found to have violated their respective rules established under such Act.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than two years after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture of the
  House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
  and Forestry of the Senate a report that describes the results of the
  study conducted under subsection (a). The report shall--
  (1) include an analysis of whether systematic differences exist among
  penalties imposed by various contract markets and registered futures
  associations for similar offenses, and, if so, the causes of such
  differences;
  (2) propose industry-wide guidelines or rules to make penalty levels among
  contract markets and registered futures associations consistent, including,
  if appropriate, minimum penalties or penalty ranges for various offenses; and
  (3) propose guidelines or rules to make Commission penalty levels consistent,
  including, if appropriate, minimum penalties or penalty ranges for various
  offenses.
SEC. 226. PUBLICATION OF COMMISSION OPINIONS.
  Section 2(a)(9) (7 U.S.C. 4a(h)) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new subparagraph:
  `(C) Whenever the Commission issues for official publication any opinion,
  release, rule, order, interpretation, or other determination on a matter,
  the Commission shall provide that any dissenting, concurring, or separate
  opinion by any Commissioner on the matter be published in full along with the
  Commission opinion, release, rule, order, interpretation, or determination.'.
SEC. 227. SUSPENSION OF REGISTRANTS CHARGED WITH FELONIES.
  Section 8a (7 U.S.C. 12a) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (9);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (10) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(11)(A) by written notice served on the person and pursuant to such
  rules, regulations, and orders as the Commission may adopt, to suspend
  or modify the registration of any person registered under this Act who
  is charged (in any information, indictment, or complaint authorized by a
  United States attorney or an appropriate official of any State) with the
  commission of or participation in a crime involving a violation of this Act,
  or a violation of any other provision of Federal or State law that would
  reflect on the honesty or the fitness of the person to act as a fiduciary
  (including an offense specified in subparagraph (D) or (E) of paragraph
  (2)) that is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year,
  if the Commission determines that continued registration of the person
  may pose a threat to the public interest or may threaten to impair public
  confidence in any market regulated by the Commission.
  `(B) Prior to the suspension or modification of the registration of a
  person under this paragraph, the person shall be afforded an opportunity
  for a hearing at which the Commission shall have the burden of showing
  that the continued registration of the person does, or is likely to, pose
  a threat to the public interest or threaten to impair public confidence
  in any market regulated by the Commission.
  `(C) Any notice of suspension or modification issued under this paragraph
  shall remain in effect until such information, indictment, or complaint
  is disposed of or until terminated by the Commission.
  `(D) On disposition of such information, indictment, or complaint, the
  Commission may issue and serve on such person an order pursuant to paragraph
  (2) or (4) to suspend, restrict, or revoke the registration of such person.
  `(E) A finding of not guilty or other disposition of the charge shall not
  preclude the Commission from thereafter instituting any other proceedings
  under this Act.
  `(F) A person aggrieved by an order issued under this paragraph may obtain
  review of such order in the same manner and on the same terms and conditions
  as are provided in section 6(b).'.
SEC. 228. APPEALS BY REGISTERED FUTURES ASSOCIATIONS.
  Section 17(i)(4) (7 U.S.C. 21(i)(4)) is amended by striking `(other than
  a registered futures association).'
SEC. 229. RISK ASSESSMENT FOR HOLDING COMPANY SYSTEMS.
  Section 4f (7 U.S.C. 6f) (as amended by section 207(b)(1) of this Act)
  is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subsections (a) and (b),
  respectively;
  (2) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated), by striking `this paragraph
  (2)' and inserting `this subsection'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(c)(1) As used in this subsection:
  `(i) The term `affiliated person' means any person directly or indirectly
  controlling, controlled by, or under common control with a futures commission
  merchant, as the Commission, by rule or regulation, may determine will
  effectuate the purposes of this subsection.
  `(ii) The term `Federal banking agency' shall have the same meaning as the
  term `appropriate Federal banking agency' in section 3(q) of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)).
  `(2)(A) Each registered futures commission merchant shall obtain such
  information and make and keep such records as the Commission, by rule
  or regulation, prescribes concerning the registered futures commission
  merchant's policies, procedures, or systems for monitoring and controlling
  financial and operational risks to it resulting from the activities of
  any of its affiliated persons, other than a natural person.
  `(B) The records required under subparagraph (A) shall describe, in the
  aggregate, each of the futures and other financial activities conducted
  by, and the customary sources of capital and funding of, those of its
  affiliated persons whose business activities are reasonably likely to have
  a material impact on the financial or operational condition of the futures
  commission merchant, including its adjusted net capital, its liquidity,
  or its ability to conduct or finance its operations.
  `(C) The Commission, by rule or regulation, may require summary reports
  of such information to be filed by the futures commission merchant with
  the Commission no more frequently than quarterly.
  `(3)(A) If, as a result of adverse market conditions or based on reports
  provided to the Commission pursuant to paragraph (2) or other available
  information, the Commission reasonably concludes that the Commission
  has concerns regarding the financial or operational condition of any
  registered futures commission merchant, the Commission may require the
  futures commission merchant to make reports concerning the futures and
  other financial activities of any of such person's affiliated persons,
  other than a natural person, whose business activities are reasonably
  likely to have a material impact on the financial or operational condition
  of the futures commission merchant.
  `(B) The Commission, in requiring reports pursuant to this paragraph, shall
  specify the information required, the period for which it is required, the
  time and date on which the information must be furnished, and whether the
  information is to be furnished directly to the Commission or to a contract
  market or other self-regulatory organization with primary responsibility
  for examining the registered futures commission merchant's financial and
  operational condition.
  `(4)(A) In developing and implementing reporting requirements pursuant to
  paragraph (2) with respect to affiliated persons subject to examination
  by or reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the Commission
  shall consult with and consider the views of each such Federal banking
  agency. If a Federal banking agency comments in writing on a proposed
  rule of the Commission under this subsection that has been published for
  comment, the Commission shall respond in writing to the written comment
  before adopting the proposed rule. The Commission shall, at the request
  of the Federal banking agency, publish the comment and response in the
  Federal Register at the time of publishing the adopted rule.
  `(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), a registered futures
  commission merchant shall be considered to have compiled with a
  recordkeeping or reporting requirement adopted pursuant to paragraph
  (2) concerning an affiliated person that is subject to examination by,
  or reporting requirements of, a Federal banking agency if the futures
  commission merchant utilizes for the recordkeeping or reporting requirement
  copies of reports filed by the affiliated person with the Federal banking
  agency pursuant to section 5211 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 161),
  section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321 et seq.), section 7(a)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)) section 10(b)
  of the  Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(b)), or section 5 of the
  Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1844).
  `(ii) The Commission may, by rule adopted pursuant to paragraph (2),
  require any futures commission merchant filing the reports with the
  Commission to obtain, maintain, or report supplemental information if the
  Commission makes an explicit finding that the supplemental information is
  necessary to inform the Commission regarding potential risks to the futures
  commission merchant. Prior to requiring any such supplemental information,
  the Commission shall first request the Federal banking agency to expand
  its reporting requirements to include the information.
  `(5) Prior to making a request pursuant to paragraph (3) for information
  with respect to an affiliated person that is subject to examination by or
  reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency, the Commission shall--
  `(A) notify the agency of the information required with respect to the
  affiliated person; and
  `(B) consult with the agency to determine whether the information
  required is available from the agency and for other purposes, unless the
  Commission determines that any delay resulting from the consultation would
  be inconsistent with ensuring the financial and operational condition
  of the futures commission merchant or the stability or integrity of the
  futures markets.
  `(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to permit the Commission
  to require any futures commission merchant to obtain, maintain, or furnish
  any examination report of any Federal banking agency or any supervisory
  recommendations or analysis contained in the report.
  `(7) No information provided to or obtained by the Commission from
  any Federal banking agency pursuant to a request under paragraph (5)
  regarding any affiliated person that is subject to examination by or
  reporting requirements of a Federal banking agency may be disclosed to
  any other person (other than as provided in section 8 or section 8a(6)),
  without the prior written approval of the Federal banking agency.
  `(8) The Commission shall notify a Federal banking agency of any concerns
  of the Commission regarding significant financial or operational risks
  resulting from the activities of any futures commission merchant to any
  affiliated person thereof that is subject to examination by or reporting
  requirements of the Federal banking agency.
  `(9) The Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, may exempt any person
  or class of persons under such terms and conditions and for such periods as
  the Commission shall provide in the rule, regulation, or order, from this
  subsection and the rules and regulations issued under this subsection. In
  granting the exemption, the Commission shall consider, among other factors--
  `(A) whether information of the type required under this subsection is
  available from a supervisory agency (as defined in section 1101(7) of
  the Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3401(7))), a State
  insurance commission or similar State agency, the Securities and Exchange
  Commission, or a similar foreign regulator;
  `(B) the primary business of any affiliated person;
  `(C) the nature and extent of domestic or foreign regulation of the
  affiliated person's activities;
  `(D) the nature and extent of the registered futures commission merchant's
  commodity futures and options activities; and
  `(E) with respect to the registered futures commission merchant and its
  affiliated persons, on a consolidated basis, the amount and proportion
  of assets devoted to, and revenues derived from activities in the United
  States futures markets.
  `(10) Information required to be provided pursuant to this subsection
  shall be subject to section 8. Except as specifically provided in section
  8 and notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall
  not be compelled to disclose any information required to be reported
  under this subsection, or any information supplied to the Commission by
  any domestic or foreign regulatory agency that relates to the financial
  or operational condition of any affiliated person of a registered futures
  commission merchant.
  `(11) Nothing in paragraphs (1) through (10) shall be construed to supersede
  or to limit in any way the authority or powers of the Commission pursuant
  to any other provision of this Act or regulations issued under this Act.'.
TITLE III--ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES
SEC. 301. SUBPOENA AUTHORITY.
  The third sentence of section 6(c) (7 U.S.C. 15) (as redesignated by
  section 209(a)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `Act and' and inserting `Act,'; and
  (2) by striking `Act, any' and inserting `Act, and for the purpose of any
  action taken under section 12(f), any'.
SEC. 302. COOPERATION WITH FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES.
  Section 12(a) (7 U.S.C. 16(a)) is amended by inserting after `thereof,'
  the following: `any foreign futures authority, any department or agency
  of a foreign government or political subdivision thereof,'.
SEC. 303. INVESTIGATIVE ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES.
  Section 12 (7 U.S.C. 16) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(f)(1) On request from a foreign futures authority, the Commission may,
  in its discretion, provide assistance in accordance with this section if
  the requesting authority states that the requesting authority is conducting
  an investigation which it deems necessary to determine whether any person
  has violated, is violating, or is about to violate any laws, rules or
  regulations relating to futures or options matters that the requesting
  authority administers or enforces. The Commission may conduct such
  investigation as the Commission deems necessary to collect information and
  evidence pertinent to the request for assistance. Such assistance may be
  provided without regard to whether the facts stated in the request would
  also constitute a violation of the laws of the United States.
  `(2) In deciding whether to provide assistance under this subsection,
  the Commission shall consider whether--
  `(A) the requesting authority has agreed to provide reciprocal assistance
  to the Commission in futures and options matters; and
  `(B) compliance with the request would prejudice the public interest of
  the United States.
  `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may accept
  payment and reimbursement, in cash or in kind, from a foreign futures
  authority, or made on behalf of such authority, for necessary expenses
  incurred by the Commission, its members, and employees in carrying out
  any investigation, or in providing any other assistance to a foreign
  futures authority, pursuant to this section. Any payment or reimbursement
  accepted shall be considered a reimbursement to the appropriated funds of
  the Commission.'.
SEC. 304. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES.
  Section 8 of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 12) is amended--
  (1) by adding at the end of subsection (a)(1) (as so redesignated by
  section 205(1)), the following:
`The Commission shall not be compelled to disclose any information or data
obtained from a foreign futures authority if--
  `(A) the foreign futures authority has in good faith determined and
  represented to the Commission that disclosure of such information or data
  by that foreign futures authority would violate the laws applicable to
  that foreign futures authority; and
  `(B) the Commission obtains such information pursuant to--
  `(i) such procedure as the Commission may authorize for use in connection
  with the administration or enforcement of this Act; or
  `(ii) a memorandum of understanding with that foreign futures authority;
except that nothing in this subsection shall prevent the Commission from
disclosing publicly any information or data obtained by the Commission from
a foreign futures authority when such disclosure is made in connection with a
congressional proceeding, an administrative or judicial proceeding commenced
by the United States or the Commission, in any receivership proceeding
commenced involving a receiver appointed in a judicial proceeding by the
United States or the Commission, or in any proceeding under title 11 of the
United States Code in which the Commission has intervened or in which the
Commission has the right to appear and be heard. Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to authorize the Commission to withhold information or
data from Congress. For purposes of section 552 of title 5, United States
Code, this subsection shall be considered a statute described in subsection
(b)(3)(B) of section 552.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following: `This subsection
  shall not apply to the disclosure of data or information obtained by the
  Commission from a foreign futures authority.'.
SEC. 305. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITIES
  Section 8(e) (7 U.S.C. 12(e)) is amended--
  (1) in the fifth sentence--
  (A) by inserting after `jurisdiction,' the first place it appears the
  following: `any foreign futures authority,'; and
  (B) by inserting after `such' the following: `foreign futures authority,';
  and
  (2) in the last sentence--
  (A) by inserting after `information to a' the following: `foreign futures
  authority or to a';
  (B) by inserting after `disclosed by such' the following: `foreign futures
  authority,'; and
  (C) by inserting after `or agency thereof' the following: `, or foreign
  futures authority.'.
TITLE IV--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS; EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 12(d) (7 U.S.C. 16(d)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(d) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act--
  `(1) $53,000,000 for fiscal year 1993; and
  `(2) $60,000,000 for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 402. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  The Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by striking `commission' in--
  (A) section 4a (as amended by paragraph (2)) each place it appears, other
  than in subsection (d), as so redesignated;
  (B) section 6(b), as so redesignated by section 209(a)(1), each place
  it appears;
  (C) section 6(c), as so redesignated by section 209(a)(1);
  (D) section 13(c); and inserting `Commission';
  (2) in section 4a (7 U.S.C. 6a)--
  (A) in subsection (1) by striking `subparagraphs 2 (A) and (B)' and inserting
  `paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b)';
  (B) in subsection (3) by striking `subsection (1)' and inserting `subsection
  (a)';
  (C) by redesignating subsections (1) through (5) as subsections (a) through
  (e), respectively; and
  (D) in subsection (b), as so redesignated, by redesignating paragraphs
  (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
  (3) in section 4b--
  (A) by redesignating subdivisions (A) through (D) as subdivisions (i)
  through (iv), respectively;
  (B) by striking `(a)', `(b)', and `(c)', and inserting `(A)', `(B)', and
  `(C)', respectively;
  (C) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 4b.';
  (D) by inserting `(b)' before `Nothing in this section or'; and
  (E) by inserting `(c)' before `Nothing in this section shall';
  (4) in section 4c(d)(2)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A)(iv) by striking `(15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12))' and
  inserting `(15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(12))'; and
  (B) in the matter following subparagraph (C) by striking `section (2)(a)'
  and inserting `section 2(a)';
  (5) in section 4g (7 U.S.C. 6g)--
  (A) by redesignating subsections (1) through (6) as subsections (a) through
  (f), respectively; and
  (B) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking `subsection (2)'
  and inserting `subsection (b)';
  (6) in section 6(c), as so redesignated by section 209(a)(1), by striking
  `offending person.' and inserting `offending person';
  (7) in section 6(c), as so redesignated by section 209(a)(1), and in
  section 8(f) by striking `subpena' and `subpenas' each place they appear
  and inserting `subpoena' and `subpoenas', respectively;
  (8) in section 6a, as amended by section 209(b)(4), by redesignating
  subsections (1) and (2) as subsections (a) and (b), respectively;
  (9) by striking `the Secretary of Agriculture or'--
  (A) in the first sentence of section 6(b), as so redesignated by section
  209(a)(1);
  (B) in the first sentence of section 6(c), as so redesignated by section
  207(a)(1); and
  (C) in section 13(c);
  (10) in section 8a--
  (A) in paragraph (5) by striking `and' at the end; and
  (B) in paragraph (7) by striking `matters as:' and inserting `matters as--';
  (11) in section 14(g) by striking `fifteen months' the second place it
  appears and inserting `15-month';
  (12) in section 17--
  (A) in subsection (a) by indenting the left margin of paragraphs (1) and
  (2) by 2 ems; and
  (B) in subsection (l)(2)(B)--
  (i) by striking `the Commodity Exchange' and inserting `this'; and
  (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting `; and';
  (13) by striking section 21;
  (14) in section 22(a)--
  (A) in paragraph (1)--
  (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking `clauses (A)
  through (D)' and inserting `subparagraphs (A) through (D)'; and
  (ii) in subparagraph (D) by striking `clause (B)' and inserting `subparagraph
  (B)'; and
  (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `17b(10)' and inserting `17(b)(10)'; and
  (15) by striking section 23.
SEC. 403. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Act, this Act and the
  amendments made by this Act shall become effective on the date of enactment
  of this Act.
SEC. 404. DEFINITIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after the first section
  (7 U.S.C. 1) the following new section:
`SEC. 1a. DEFINITIONS.
  `As used in this Act:
  `(1) BOARD OF TRADE- The term `board of trade' means any exchange or
  association, whether incorporated or unincorporated, of persons who are
  engaged in the business of buying or selling any commodity or receiving
  the same for sale on consignment.
  `(2) COMMISSION- The term `Commission' means the Commodity Futures Trading
  Commission established under section 2(a)(2).
  `(3) COMMODITY- The term `commodity' means wheat, cotton, rice, corn, oats,
  barley, rye, flaxseed, grain sorghums, mill feeds, butter, eggs, Solanum
  tuberosum (Irish potatoes), wool, wool tops, fats and oils (including lard,
  tallow, cottonseed oil, peanut oil, soybean oil, and all other fats and
  oils), cottonseed meal, cottonseed, peanuts, soybeans, soybean meal,
  livestock, livestock products, and frozen concentrated orange juice,
  and all other goods and articles, except onions as provided in Public Law
  85-839 (7 U.S.C. 13-1), and all services, rights, and interests in which
  contracts for future delivery are presently or in the future dealt in.
  `(4) COMMODITY POOL OPERATOR- The term `commodity pool operator' means any
  person engaged in a business that is of the nature of an investment trust,
  syndicate, or similar form of enterprise, and who, in connection therewith,
  solicits, accepts, or receives from others, funds, securities, or property,
  either directly or through capital contributions, the sale of stock or
  other forms of securities, or otherwise, for the purpose of trading in any
  commodity for future delivery on or subject to the rules of any contract
  market, except that the term does not include such persons not within the
  intent of the definition of the term as the Commission may specify by rule,
  regulation, or order.
  `(5) COMMODITY TRADING ADVISOR-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the term
  `commodity trading advisor' means any person who--
  `(i) for compensation or profit, engages in the business of advising others,
  either directly or through publications, writings, or electronic media,
  as to the value of or the advisability of trading in--
  `(I) any contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery made or to
  be made on or subject to the rules of a contract market;
  `(II) any commodity option authorized under section 4c; or
  `(III) any leverage transaction authorized under section 19; or
  `(ii) for compensation or profit, and as part of a regular business,
  issues or promulgates analyses or reports concerning any of the activities
  referred to in clause (i).
  `(B) EXCLUSIONS- Subject to subparagraph (C), the term `commodity trading
  advisor' does not include--
  `(i) any bank or trust company or any person acting as an employee thereof;
  `(ii) any news reporter, news columnist, or news editor of the print or
  electronic media, or any lawyer, accountant, or teacher;
  `(iii) any floor broker or futures commission merchant;
  `(iv) the publisher or producer of any print or electronic data of general
  and regular dissemination, including its employees;
  `(v) the fiduciary of any defined benefit plan that is subject to the
  Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.);
  `(vi) any contract market; and
  `(vii) such other persons not within the intent of this paragraph as the
  Commission may specify by rule, regulation, or order.
  `(C) INCIDENTAL SERVICES- Subparagraph (B) shall apply only if the
  furnishing of such services by persons referred to in subparagraph (B)
  is solely incidental to the conduct of their business or profession.
  `(D) ADVISORS- The Commission, by rule or regulation, may include within
  the term `commodity trading advisor', any person advising as to the value
  of commodities or issuing reports or analyses concerning commodities if
  the Commission determines that the rule or regulation will effectuate the
  purposes of this paragraph.
  `(6) CONTRACT OF SALE- The term `contract of sale' includes sales,
  agreements of sale, and agreements to sell.
  `(7) COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATION OF PRODUCERS- The term `cooperative association
  of producers' means any cooperative association, corporate, or otherwise,
  not less than 75 percent in good faith owned or controlled, directly or
  indirectly, by producers of agricultural products and otherwise complying
  with the Act of February 18, 1922 (42 Stat. 388, chapter 57; 7 U.S.C. 291
  and 292), including any organization acting for a group of such associations
  and owned or controlled by such associations, except that business done for
  or with the United States, or any agency thereof, shall not be considered
  either member or nonmember business in determining the compliance of any
  such association with this Act.
  `(8) FLOOR BROKER- The term `floor broker' means any person who, in or
  surrounding any pit, ring, post, or other place provided by a contract
  market for the meeting of persons similarly engaged, shall purchase or
  sell for any other person any commodity for future delivery on or subject
  to the rules of any contract market.
  `(9) FLOOR TRADER- The term `floor trader' means any person who, in or
  surrounding any pit, ring, post, or other place provided by a contract
  market for the meeting of persons similarly engaged, purchases, or sells
  solely for such person's own account, any commodity for future delivery
  on or subject to the rules of any contract market.
  `(10) FOREIGN FUTURES AUTHORITY- The term `foreign futures authority'
  means any foreign government, or any department, agency, governmental
  body, or regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to
  administer or enforce a law, rule, or regulation as it relates to a futures
  or options matter, or any department or agency of a political subdivision
  of a foreign government empowered to administer or enforce a law, rule,
  or regulation as it relates to a futures or options matter.
  `(11) FUTURE DELIVERY- The term `future delivery' does not include any
  sale of any cash commodity for deferred shipment or delivery.
  `(12) FUTURES COMMISSION MERCHANT- The term `futures commission merchant'
  means an individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust that--
  `(A) is engaged in soliciting or in accepting orders for the purchase or
  sale of any commodity for future delivery on or subject to the rules of
  any contract market; and
  `(B) in or in connection with such solicitation or acceptance of orders,
  accepts any money, securities, or property (or extends credit in lieu
  thereof) to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that
  result or may result therefrom.
  `(13) INTERSTATE COMMERCE- The term `interstate commerce' means commerce--
  `(A) between any State, territory, or possession, or the District of
  Columbia, and any place outside thereof; or
  `(B) between points within the same state, territory, or possession,
  or the District of Columbia, but through any place outside thereof, or
  within any territory or possession, or the District of Columbia.
  `(14) INTRODUCING BROKER- The term `introducing broker' means any person
  (except an individual who elects to be and is registered as an associated
  person of a futures commission merchant) engaged in soliciting or in
  accepting orders for the purchase or sale of any commodity for future
  delivery on or subject to the rules of any contract market who does not
  accept any money, securities, or property (or extend credit in lieu thereof)
  to margin, guarantee, or secure any trades or contracts that result or
  may result therefrom.
  `(15) MEMBER OF A CONTRACT MARKET- The term `member of a contract market'
  means an individual, association, partnership, corporation, or trust owning
  or holding membership in, or admitted to membership representation on,
  a contract market or given members' trading privileges thereon.
  `(16) PERSON- The term `person' imports the plural or singular, and includes
  individuals, associations, partnerships, corporations, and trusts.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 2(a)(1)(A) (7 U.S.C. 2 and 4) is amended--
  (1) by striking `For the purposes' and all that follows through `; Provided,
  That the Commission' and inserting `(i) The Commission';
  (2) by striking `: And provided further, That, except' and inserting a
  period and `Except';
  (3) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) of the third sentence (as in
  effect before the amendments made by this subsection) as subclauses (I)
  and (II), respectively;
  (4) by designating the fifth sentence (as in effect before the amendments
  made by this subsection) as clause (ii);
  (5) by striking the sixth and seventh sentences (as in effect before the
  amendments made by this subsection);
  (6) by designating the eighth sentence (as in effect before the amendments
  made by this subsection) as clause (iii); and
  (7) by striking the ninth sentence (as in effect before the amendments
  made by this subsection) through the end of the subparagraph.
TITLE V--INTERMARKET COORDINATION
SEC. 501. MARGIN ON STOCK INDEX FUTURES.
  Section 2(a)(1)(B) (7 U.S.C. 2a) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new clause:
  `(vi)(I) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any contract market
  in a stock index futures contract (or option thereon) shall file with the
  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System any rule establishing
  or changing the levels of margin (initial and maintenance) for the stock
  index futures contract (or option thereon).
  `(II) The Board may at any time request any contract market to set the
  margin for any stock index futures contract (or option thereon) at such
  levels as the Board in its judgment determines are appropriate to preserve
  the financial integrity of the contract market or its clearing system or
  to prevent systemic risk. If the contract market fails to do so within
  the time specified by the Board in its request, the Board may direct the
  contract market to alter or supplement the rules of the contract market
  as specified in the request.
  `(III) Subject to such conditions as the Board may determine, the Board
  may delegate any or all of its authority under this clause only to the
  Commission.
  `(IV) Nothing in this clause shall supersede or limit the authority granted
  to the Commission in section 8a(9) to direct a contract market, on finding
  an emergency to exist, to raise temporary emergency margin levels on any
  futures contract or option on the contract covered by this clause.
  `(V) Any action taken by the Board, or by the Commission acting under the
  delegation of authority under subclause III, under this clause directing
  a contract market to alter or supplement a contract market rule shall be
  subject to review only in the Court of Appeals where the party seeking
  review resides or has its principal place of business, or in the United
  States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. The review
  shall be based on the examination of all information before the Board
  or the Commission, as the case may be, at the time the determination was
  made. The court reviewing  the action of the Board or the Commission shall
  not enter a stay or order of mandamus unless the court has determined,
  after notice and a hearing before a panel of the court, that the agency
  action complained of was arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion,
  or otherwise not in accordance with law.'.
SEC. 502. EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4 (7 U.S.C. 6) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `It shall be unlawful' and inserting
  `Unless exempted by the Commission pursuant to subsection (c), it shall
  be unlawful'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(c)(1) In order to promote responsible economic or financial innovation
  and fair competition, the Commission by rule, regulation, or order,
  after notice and opportunity for hearing, may (on its own initiative or
  on application of any person, including any board of trade designated as
  a contract market for transactions for future delivery in any commodity
  under section 5 of this Act) exempt any agreement, contract, or transaction
  (or class thereof) that is otherwise subject to subsection (a) (including
  any person or class of persons offering, entering into, rendering advice
  or rendering other services with respect to, the agreement, contract,
  or transaction), either unconditionally or on stated terms or conditions
  or for stated periods and either retroactively or prospectively, or both,
  from any of the requirements of subsection (a), or from any other provision
  of this Act (except section 2(a)(1)(B)), if the Commission determines that
  the exemption would be consistent with the public interest.'
  `(2) The Commission shall not grant any exemption under paragraph (1)
  from any of the requirements of subsection (a) unless the Commission
  determines that--
  `(A) the requirement should not be applied to the agreement, contract, or
  transaction for which the exemption is sought and that the exemption would
  be consistent with the public interest and the purposes of this Act; and
  `(B) the agreement, contract, or transaction--
  `(i) will be entered into solely between appropriate persons; and
  `(ii) will not have a material adverse effect on the ability of the
  Commission or any contract market to discharge its regulatory or
  self-regulatory duties under this Act.
  `(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term `appropriate person' shall
  be limited to the following persons or classes thereof:
  `(A) A bank or trust company (acting in an individual or fiduciary capacity).
  `(B) A savings association.
  `(C) An insurance company.
  `(D) An investment company subject to regulation under the Investment
  Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.).
  `(E) A commodity pool formed or operated by a person subject to regulation
  under this Act.
  `(F) A corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust, or
  other business entity with a net worth exceeding $1,000,000 or total assets
  exceeding $5,000,000, or the obligations of which under the agreement,
  contract or transaction are guaranteed or otherwise supported by a letter
  of credit or keepwell, support, or other agreement by any such entity or
  by an entity referred to in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (H), (I), or (K)
  of this paragraph.
  `(G) An employee benefit plan with assets exceeding $1,000,000, or whose
  investment decisions are made by a bank, trust company, insurance company,
  investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
  (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), or a commodity trading advisor subject to
  regulation under this Act.
  `(H) Any governmental entity (including the United States, any state,
  or any foreign government) or political subdivision thereof, or any
  multinational or supranational entity or any instrumentality, agency,
  or department of any of the foregoing.
  `(I) A broker-dealer subject to regulation under the Securities Exchange
  Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) acting on its own behalf or on behalf
  of another appropriate person.
  `(J) A futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader subject
  to regulation under this Act acting on its own behalf or on behalf of
  another appropriate person.
  `(K) Such other persons that the Commission determines to be appropriate
  in light of their financial or other qualifications, or the applicability
  of appropriate regulatory protections.
  `(4) During the pendency of an application for an order granting an exemption
  under paragraph (1), the Commission may limit the public availability of
  any information received from the applicant if the applicant submits a
  written request to limit disclosure contemporaneous with the application,
  and the Commission determines that--
  `(A) the information sought to be restricted constitutes a trade secret; or
  `(B) public disclosure of the information would result in material
  competitive harm to the applicant.
  `(5) The Commission may--
  `(A) promptly following the enactment of this subsection, or upon application
  by any person, exercise the exemptive authority granted under paragraph
  (1) with respect to classes of hybrid instruments that are predominantly
  securities or depository instruments, to the extent that such instruments
  may be regarded as subject to the provisions of this Act; or
  `(B) promptly following the enactment of this subsection, or upon application
  by any person, exercise the exemptive authority granted under paragraph
  (1) effective as of October 23, 1974, with respect to classes of swap
  agreements (as defined in section 101 of title 11, United States Code)
  that are not part of a fungible class of agreements that are standardized
  as to their material economic terms, to the extent that such agreements
  may be regarded as subject to the provisions of this Act.
Any exemption pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to such terms and
conditions as the Commission shall determine to be appropriate pursuant to
paragraph (1).
  `(d) The granting of an exemption under this section shall not affect the
  authority of the Commission under any other provision of this Act to conduct
  investigations in order to determine compliance with the requirements
  or conditions of such exemption or to take enforcement action for any
  violation of any provision of this Act or any rule, regulation or order
  thereunder caused by the failure to comply with or satisfy such conditions
  or requirements.'.
  (b) COMPETITIVE FAIRNESS- Section 15 (7 U.S.C. 19) is amended by striking
  `regulation,' and inserting `regulation (including any exemption under
  section 4(c) or 4c(b)),'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 12(e)(2)(A) (7 U.S.C. 16(e)(2)(A)) is
  amended by inserting after `market,' the following: `or, in the case of any
  State or local law that prohibits or regulates gaming or the operation of
  `bucket shops' (other
than antifraud provisions of general applicability), that is not a transaction
or class of transactions that has received or is covered by the terms of
any exemption previously granted by the Commission under subsection (c)
of section 4 of this Act,'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.