 
--H.R.1776--
H.R.1776
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize for fiscal year 1992 the United States Coast Guard Budget.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Funds are authorized to be appropriated for necessary expenses of the Coast
 Guard for Fiscal Year 1992, as follows:
 (a) For the operation and maintenance of the Coast Guard, $2,570,000,000,
 of which $500,000 shall be used to implement the Nonindigenous Aquatic
 Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-646), and
 $35,000,000 shall be expended from the Boat Safety Account.
 (b)(1) For the acquisition, construction, rebuilding and improvement of aids
 to navigation, shore and offshore facilities, vessels, sonar simulators,
 and aircraft, including equipment related thereto, $466,000,000, of which
 $29,000,000 shall be used to acquire a command and control aircraft, to
 remain available until expended.
 (2) Funds authorized to be appropriated for the construction of a new seagoing
 buoy tender (WLB) may not be expended for the acquisition of oil recovery
 systems unless those systems are manufactured in the United States and only
 pursuant to competitive bidding based on performance specification and cost.
 (3)(A) Notwithstanding another provision of law, the Secretary of the
 department in which the Coast Guard is operating may submit a request for
 reprogramming of funds to purchase, lease, or lease with option to purchase
 a replacement command and control aircraft for the Coast Guard during fiscal
 year 1992. The request shall be in accordance with the existing procedures
 for congressional review of appropriations reprogramming requests. Subject
 to those reprogramming procedures--
 (i) the Coast Guard may enter into a multiyear lease agreement for a
 replacement aircraft and may utilize operating expenses for a multiyear
 lease but not for the purchase of aircraft; and
 (ii) funds may be reprogrammed, pursuant to the request, from any subaccount
 of the acquisition, construction, and improvements appropriation.
 (B) The Coast Guard may transfer the current command and control aircraft to
 the vendor of a replacement aircraft in exchange for an equitable reduction
 in the cash price of an aircraft to be acquired, or in lieu of exchange,
 the current aircraft may be sold and the proceeds applied toward a purchase,
 lease, or lease with option to purchase.
 (4) Before October 1, 1992, the Secretary of Transportation shall use funds
 as may be necessary, not more than $14,000,000, to begin and actively pursue
 the renovation project to extend the useful life of the Coast Guard Cutter
 Mackinaw at least an additional 15 years.
 (c) For research, development, test, and evaluation, $29,150,000, to remain
 available until expended.
 (d) For retired pay (including the payment of obligations otherwise
 chargeable to lapsed appropriations for this purpose), payments under
 the Retired Serviceman's Family Protection and Survivor Benefit Plans,
 and payments for medical care of retired personnel and their dependents
 under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, $487,700,000, to remain
 available until expended.
 (e) For alteration or removal of bridges over navigable waters of the
 United States constituting obstructions to navigation, and for personnel
 and administrative costs associated with the Bridge Alteration Program,
 $11,100,000, to remain available until expended.
 (f) For environmental compliance and restoration at Coast Guard facilities,
 $25,100,000, to remain available until expended.
 (g) Of the amounts authorized for Coast Guard operations and maintenance and
 acquisition, construction and improvement, the following amounts shall be
 derived from transfer from the Oil Spill Liability Fund for implementation
 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380; 104 Stat. 484):
 (1) $25,000,000 for operating expenses; and
 (2) $30,000,000 to establish the National Response System under section
 311(j) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(j)),
 including the purchase and prepositioning of oil spill removal equipment.
 (h) Of the amounts authorized for Coast Guard operations and maintenance, not
 more than $1,900,000 shall be used for annual obligations of membership in the
 International Maritime Organization for calendar year 1992, notwithstanding
 section 2 of the Act of September 21, 1950 (22 U.S.C. 262a).
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZED LEVELS OF MILITARY STRENGTH AND MILITARY TRAINING FOR
FISCAL YEAR 1992.
 (a) As of September 30, 1992, the Coast Guard is authorized an end-of-year
 strength for active duty personnel of 39,559. The authorized strength does
 not include members of the Ready Reserve called to active duty under section
 712 of title 14, United States Code.
 (b) For fiscal year 1992, the Coast Guard is authorized average military
 training student loads as follows:
 (1) For recruit and special training, 2,653 student years.
 (2) For flight training, 110 student years.
 (3) For professional training in military and civilian institutions, 362
 student years.
 (4) For officer acquisition, 878 student years.
SEC. 4. TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY FROM THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE NAVY UPON THE TRANSFER OF THE COAST GUARD TO THE NAVY.
 Not later than ninety days after enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
 Transportation shall submit to Congress a report on the functions, powers,
 and duties vested in the Secretary of Transportation and exercised through
 delegation to the Commandant of the Coast Guard that would be transferred
 to the Secretary of the Navy when the Coast Guard operates as a service in
 the Navy under section 3 of title 14, United States Code.
SEC. 5. RETIREMENT OF REAR ADMIRALS.
 (a) Section 290 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in subsection (e) by striking `June 30 of' and substituting `July 1 of
 the promotion year immediately following'; and
 (2) by striking subsections (f) and (g) and substituting the following
 new subsections:
 `(f)(1) Unless retired under another provision of law, each officer who
 is continued on active duty under this section shall, except as provided
 in paragraph (2), be retired on July 1 of the promotion year immediately
 following the promotion year in which that officer completes seven years of
 combined service in the grades of rear admiral (lower half) and rear admiral,
 unless that officer is selected for or serving in the grade of admiral or
 vice admiral or the position of Chief of Staff or Superintendent of the
 Coast Guard Academy.
 `(2) The Commandant, with the approval of the Secretary, may by annual
 action retain on active duty from promotion year to promotion year any
 officer who would otherwise be retired under paragraph (1). Unless selected
 for or serving in the grade of admiral or vice admiral or the position of
 Chief of Staff or Superintendent of the Coast Guard Academy, or retired
 under another provision of law, an officer so retained shall be retired on
 July 1 of the promotion year immediately following the promotion year in
 which no action is taken to further retain that officer under this paragraph.
 `(g)(1) Unless retired under another provision of law, an officer subject to
 this section shall, except as provided in paragraph (2), be retired on July
 1 of the promotion year immediately following the promotion year in which
 that officer completes a total of thirty-six years of active commissioned
 service unless selected for or serving in the grade of admiral.
 `(2) The Commandant, with the approval of the Secretary, may by annual
 action retain on active duty from promotion year to promotion year any
 officer who would otherwise be retired under paragraph (1). Unless selected
 for or serving in the grade of admiral or retired under another provision
 of law, an officer so retained shall be retired on July 1 of the promotion
 year immediately following the promotion year in which no action is taken
 to further retain that officer under this paragraph.'.
 (b)(1) Section 290(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `he' and substituting `that officer'.
 (2) Section 290(d) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `his' each place it appears.
SEC. 6. ENLISTED PERSONNEL BOARDS.
 (a) Section 357 of title 14, United States Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
 `(a) Enlisted Personnel Boards shall be convened as the Commandant may
 prescribe to review the records of enlisted members who have twenty or more
 years of active military service.
 `(b) Enlisted members who have twenty or more years of active military
 service may be considered by the Commandant for involuntary retirement and
 may be retired on recommendation of a Board--
 `(1) because the member's performance is below the standards the Commandant
 prescribes; or
 `(2) because of professional dereliction.
 `(c) An enlisted member under review by the Board shall be--
 `(1) notified in writing of the reasons the member is being considered for
 involuntary retirement;
 `(2) allowed sixty days from the date on which counsel is provided under
 paragraph (3) to submit any matters in rebuttal;
 `(3) provided counsel, certified under section 827(b) of title 10, to help
 prepare the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2) and to represent the
 member before the Board under paragraph (5);
 `(4) allowed full access to and be furnished with copies of records relevant
 to the consideration for involuntary retirement prior to submission of the
 rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2); and
 `(5) allowed to appear before the Board and present witnesses or other
 documentation related to the review.
 `(d) A Board convened under this section shall consist of at least three
 commissioned officers, at least one of whom shall be of the grade of
 commander or above.
 `(e) A Board convened under this section shall recommend to the Commandant
 enlisted members who--
 `(1) have twenty or more years of active service;
 `(2) have been considered for involuntary retirement; and
 `(3) it determines should be involuntarily retired.
 `(f) After the Board makes its determination, each enlisted member the
 Commandant considers for involuntary retirement shall be--
 `(1) notified by certified mail of the reasons the member is being considered
 for involuntary retirement;
 `(2) allowed sixty days from the date counsel is provided under paragraph
 (3) to submit any matters in rebuttal;
 `(3) provided counsel, certified under section 827(b) of title 10, to help
 prepare the rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2); and
 `(4) allowed full access to and be furnished with copies of records relevant
 to the consideration for involuntary retirement prior to submission of the
 rebuttal submitted under paragraph (2).
 `(g) If the Commandant approves the Board's recommendation, the enlisted
 member shall be notified of the Commandant's decision and shall be retired
 from the service within ninety days of the notification.
 `(h) An enlisted member, who has completed twenty years of service and who
 the Commandant has involuntarily retired under this section, shall receive
 retired pay.
 `(i) An enlisted member voluntarily or involuntarily retired after twenty
 years of service who was cited for extraordinary heroism in the line of duty
 shall be entitled to an increase in retired pay. The retired pay shall be
 increased by 10 percent of--
 `(1) the active-duty pay and permanent additions thereto of the grade or
 rating with which retired when the member's retired pay is computed under
 section 423(a) of this title; or
 `(2) the member's retired pay base under section 1407 of title 10, when a
 member's retired pay is computed under section 423(b) of this title.
 `(j) When the Secretary orders a reduction in force, enlisted personnel
 may be involuntarily separated from the service without the Board's action.'.
 (b) The catchline to section 357 of title 14, United States Code, is amended
 to read:
`Sec. 357. Involuntary retirement of enlisted members';
and item 357 in the analysis to chapter 11 of title 14, United States Code,
is amended to read:
`357. Involuntary retirement of enlisted members.'.
SEC. 7. AUTHORITY  TO ACCEPT COURT-ORDERED COMMUNITY SERVICE.
 Section 93 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by--
 (1) striking the word `and' at the end of subsection (q);
 (2) striking the period at the end of subsection (r) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) adding the following new subsection:
 `(s) accept, under terms and conditions the Commandant establishes, the
 service of an individual ordered to perform community service under the
 order of a Federal, State, or municipal court.'.
SEC. 8. HOUSING UNIT LEASE AUTHORITY.
 (a)(1) The Coast Guard may enter into a lease, for a term in excess of one
 fiscal year, to acquire a site at the Massachusetts Military Reservation on
 Cape Cod, Massachusetts, for construction or renovation of housing units,
 or both.
 (2) Any lease authorized under paragraph (1) is effective only to the extent
 that amounts are provided for in advance in appropriations Acts.
 (b) Beginning in fiscal year 1991, the Coast Guard may spend appropriated
 amounts for the construction or renovation (or both) of housing units at
 the site of the Massachusetts Military Reservation.
SEC. 9. AIR FACILITIES LEASE AUTHORITY.
 (a)(1) The Coast Guard may enter into a lease, for a term in excess of
 one fiscal year, to acquire a site at Charleston, South Carolina, for
 construction of a permanent air facility.
 (2) Any lease authorized under paragraph (1) is effective only to the extent
 that amounts are provided for in advance in appropriations Acts.
 (b) Beginning in fiscal year 1991, the Coast Guard may spend appropriated
 amounts for the construction of a permanent air facility on the site at
 Charleston, South Carolina.
SEC. 10. COAST GUARD HOUSING STUDY.
 Not later than six months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,
 Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives a report on Coast Guard
 housing. The report shall examine the current housing problems of the Coast
 Guard, the long-term housing needs of the Coast Guard, and estimates of
 projected housing costs needed to relieve the current problems.
SEC. 11. TWO-YEAR BUDGET CYCLE FOR THE COAST GUARD.
 Notwithstanding another law, the President is not required to submit a
 two-year budget request for the Coast Guard until the President is required
 to submit a two-year budget request for the Department of Transportation.
SEC. 12. TRANSPORTATION OF HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS OF COAST GUARD CADETS.
 Section 406(b)(2)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(E) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, or the
 Secretary of Transportation for the Coast Guard when it is not operating
 as a service in the Navy, cadets at the United States Military Academy, the
 United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Coast Guard Academy,
 and midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy shall be entitled, in
 connection with temporary or permanent station change, to transportation
 of baggage and household effects as provided in subparagraph (A) of this
 paragraph. The weight allowance for cadets and midshipmen is 350 pounds.'.
SEC. 13. EMERGENCY RECALL OF RESERVISTS.
 Section 712(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) Notwithstanding another law, and for the emergency augmentation of the
 Regular Coast Guard forces during a serious natural or manmade disaster,
 accident, or catastrophe, the Secretary may, without the consent of the
 member affected, order to active duty of not more than thirty days in any
 four-month period and not more than sixty days in any two-year period an
 organized training unit of the Coast Guard Ready Reserve, a member thereof,
 or a member not assigned to a unit organized to serve as a unit.'.
SEC. 14. RECALL OF RETIRED OFFICERS.
 (a) Section 332(b) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `1' and substituting `2'.
 (b) Section 332(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `his' and substituting `that officer's' and by striking `he' and substituting
 `that officer'.
SEC. 15. COAST GUARD ACADEMY ADVISORY COMMITTEE TERMINATION DATE.
Section 193 of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking at the
end `September 30, 1992', and inserting `September 30, 1994'.
SEC. 16. AMENDMENT TO THE VESSEL BRIDGE-TO-BRIDGE RADIOTELEPHONE ACT OF 1971.
 Section 4(a)(1) of the Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Act of 1971
 (33 U.S.C. 1203(a)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(1) every power-driven vessel of twenty meters or over in length while
 navigating;'.
SEC. 17. NORTH CAROLINA MARITIME MUSEUM.
 Notwithstanding section 3301(8) of title 46, United States Code, the GENERAL
 GREENE (vessel identification number USG NP5000025661), may transport
 not more than sixteen passengers when the North Carolina Maritime Museum
 operates the vessel for educational purposes.
SEC. 18. HOUSTON-GALVESTON NAVIGATION SAFETY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a)(1) There is established a Houston-Galveston Navigation Safety Advisory
 Committee (hereinafter referred to as the `Committee'). The Committee
 shall advise, consult with, and make recommendations to the Secretary of
 the department in which the Coast Guard is operating (hereinafter in this
 part referred to as the `Secretary') on matters relating to the transit of
 vessels and products to and from the Ports of Galveston, Houston, Texas City,
 and Galveston Bay. The Secretary shall, whenever practicable, consult with
 the Committee before taking any significant action related to navigation
 safety at these port facilities. Any advice or recommendation made by the
 Committee to the Secretary shall reflect the independent judgment of the
 Committee on the matter concerned.
 (2) The Committee is authorized to make available to Congress any information,
 advice, and recommendations that the Committee is authorized to give to
 the Secretary. The Committee shall meet at the call of the Secretary,
 but in any event not less than once during each calendar year. All matters
 relating to or proceedings of the Committee shall comply with the Federal
 Advisory Committee Act (5 App. U.S.C.).
 (b) The Committee shall consist of eighteen members, who have particular
 expertise, knowledge, and experience regarding the transportation, equipment,
 and techniques that are used to ship cargo and to navigate vessels in the
 inshore and the offshore waters of the Gulf of Mexico:
 (1) Two members who are employed by the Port of Houston Authority or have
 been selected by that entity to represent them.
 (2) Two members who are employed by the Port of Galveston or the Texas City
 Port Complex or have been selected by those entities to represent them.
 (3) Two members from organizations that represent shipowners, stevedores,
 shipyards, or shipping organizations domiciled in the State of Texas.
 (4) Two members representing organizations that operate tugs or barges
 that utilize the port facilities at Galveston, Houston, and Texas City
 Port Complex.
 (5) Two members representing shipping companies that transport cargo from
 the Ports of Galveston and Houston on liners, break bulk, or tramp steamer
 vessels.
 (6) Two members representing those who pilot or command vessels that utilize
 the Ports of Galveston and Houston.
 (7) Two at-large members who may represent a particular interest group but
 who utilize the port facilities at Galveston, Houston, and Texas City.
 (8) One member representing labor organizations which load and unload cargo
 at the Ports of Galveston and Houston.
 (9) One member representing licensed merchant mariners, other than pilots,
 who perform shipboard duties on vessels which utilize the port facilities
 of Galveston and Houston.
 (10) One member representing environmental interests.
 (11) One member representing the general public.
 (c) The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Committee after first
 soliciting nominations by notice published in the Federal Register. The
 Secretary may request the head of any other Federal agency or department
 to designate a representative to advise the Committee on matters within
 the jurisdiction of that agency or department.
 (d) The Committee shall elect, by majority vote at its first meeting, one
 of the members of the Committee as the chairman and one of the members as
 the vice chairman. The vice chairman shall act as chairman in the absence
 or incapacity of, or in the event of a vacancy in the Office of the Chairman.
 (e) Terms of members appointed to the Committee shall be for two years. The
 Secretary shall, not less often than once a year, publish notice in the
 Federal Register for solicitation of nominations for membership on the
 Committee.
 (f) Members of the Committee who are not officers or employees of the United
 States shall serve without pay and members of the Committee who are officers
 or employees of the United States shall receive no additional pay on account
 of their service on the Committee. While away from their homes or regular
 places of business, members of the Committee may be allowed travel expenses,
 including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703
 of title 5, United States Code.
 (g) The term of members of the Committee shall begin on Octo- ber 1, 1992.
SEC. 19. LOWER MISSISSIPPI RIVER WATERWAY ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a)(1) There is established a Lower Mississippi River Waterway Advisory
 Committee (hereinafter referred to as the `Committee'). The Committee shall
 advise, consult with, and make recommendations to the Secretary of the
 department in which the Coast Guard is operating (hereinafter in this part
 referred to as the `Secretary') on a wide range of matters regarding all
 facets of navigational safety related to the Lower Mississippi River. The
 Secretary shall, whenever practicable, consult with the Committee before
 taking any significant action related to navigation safety in the Lower
 Mississippi River. Any advice or recommendation made by the Committee to
 the Secretary shall reflect the independent judgment of the Committee on
 the matter concerned.
 (2) The Committee is authorized to make available to Congress any information,
 advice, and recommendations which the Committee is authorized to give the
 Secretary. The Committee shall meet at the call of the Chairman, or upon
 request of the majority of Committee members, but in any event not less
 than once during each calendar year. All matters relating to or proceedings
 of the Committee shall comply with the Federal Advisory Committee Act
 (5 App. U.S.C.).
 (b) The Committee shall consist of twenty-four members who have expertise,
 knowledge, and experience regarding the transportation, equipment, and
 techniques that are used to ship cargo and to navigate vessels on the Lower
 Mississippi River and its connecting navigable waterways including the Gulf
 of Mexico:
 (1) Five members representing River Port Authorities between Baton Rouge,
 Louisiana, and the head of passes of the Lower Mississippi River, of which
 one member shall be from the Port of St. Bernard and one member from the
 Port of Plaquemines.
 (2) Two members representing vessel owners or ship owners domiciled in the
 State of Louisiana.
 (3) Two members representing organizations which operate harbor tugs or
 barge fleets in the geographical area covered by the Committee.
 (4) Two members representing companies which transport cargo or passengers
 on the navigable waterways in the geographical area covered by the Committee.
 (5) Three members representing State Commissioned Pilot organizations,
 with one member each representing the New Orleans/Baton Rouge Steamship
 Pilots Association, the Crescent River Port Pilots Association, and the
 Associated Branch Pilots Association.
 (6) Two at-large members who utilize water transportation facilities located
 in the geographical area covered by the Committee.
 (7) Three members representing consumers, shippers, or importers/exporters
 that utilize vessels which utilize the navigable waterways covered by
 the Committee.
 (8) Two members representing those licensed merchant mariners, other than
 pilots, who perform shipboard duties on those vessels which utilize navigable
 waterways covered by the Committee.
 (9) One member representing an organization that serves in a consulting or
 advisory capacity to the maritime industry.
 (10) One member representing an environmental organization.
 (11) One member representing the general public.
 (c) The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Committee upon
 recommendation after first soliciting nominations by notice in the Federal
 Register. The Secretary may request the head of any other Federal agency or
 department to designate a representative to advise the Committee on matters
 within the jurisdiction of that agency or department, who shall not be a
 voting member of the Committee.
 (d) The Committee shall annually elect, by majority vote at its first meeting,
 a chairman and vice chairman from its membership. The vice chairman shall
 act as chairman in the absence or incapacity of, or in the event of a
 vacancy in, the Office of the Chairman.
 (e) Terms of members appointed to the Committee shall be two years. The
 Secretary shall, not less than once a year, publish notice in the Federal
 Register for solicitation of nominations for membership on the Committee.
 (f) Members of the Committee who are not officers or employees of the United
 States shall serve without pay and members of the Committee who are officers
 or employees of the United States shall receive no additional pay on account
 of their service on the Committee. While away from their homes or regular
 place of business, members of the Committee may be allowed travel expenses,
 including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703
 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 20. VESSEL REQUIREMENTS.
 Section 3503 of title 46, United States Code, is amended as follows:
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `November 1, 1993' and substituting
 `November 1, 1998'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (B);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (C) and substituting
 `; and'; and
 (C) by adding the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) the owner or managing operator of the vessel shall notify the Coast
 Guard of structural alterations to the vessel, and with regard to those
 alterations comply with any noncombustible material requirements that the
 Coast Guard prescribes for nonpublic spaces. Coast Guard requirements shall be
 consistent with preservation of the historic integrity of the vessel in areas
 carrying or accessible to passengers or generally visible to the public.'.
SEC. 21. AMENDMENT OF INLAND NAVIGATIONAL RULES.
 Section 2 of the Inland Navigational Rules Act of 1980 (33 U.S.C. 2001 et
 seq.) is amended--
 (1) in Rule 1(e) (33 U.S.C. 2001(e)), by striking `without interfering with
 the special function of the vessel,'; and
 (2) in Rule 8 (33 U.S.C. 2008), by inserting immediately after paragraph
 (e) the following new paragraph:
 `(f)(i) A vessel which, by any of these Rules, is required not to impede
 the passage or safe passage of another vessel shall, when required by the
 circumstances of the case, take early action to allow sufficient sea room
 for the safe passage of the other vessel.
 `(ii) A vessel required not to impede the passage or safe passage of another
 vessel is not relieved of this obligation if approaching the other vessel
 so as to involve risk of collision and shall, when taking action, have full
 regard to the action which may be required by the Rules of this part.
 `(iii) A vessel the passage of which is not to be impeded remains fully
 obliged to comply with the Rules of this part when the two vessels are
 approaching one another so as to involve risk of collision.'.
SEC. 22. DESIGNATION OF THE BORDEAUX RAILROAD BRIDGE AS AN OBSTRUCTION
TO NAVIGATION.
 Notwithstanding another law, the Bordeaux Railroad Bridge at mile 185.2 of
 the Cumberland River is deemed an unreasonable obstruction to navigation.
SEC. 23. NEW CONSTRUCTION DECLARATION.
 The vessel, SEA FALCON, United States official number 606930, is deemed to
 have been built in the year 1990 for all purposes of subtitle II of title
 46, United States Code.
SEC. 24. NATIONAL BOATING SAFETY ADVISORY COUNCIL.
 Section 13110(e) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `September 30, 1991' and substituting `September 30, 1996'.
SEC. 25. COMMERCIAL FISHING INDUSTRY VESSEL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 Section 4508(e)(1) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `1992' and substituting `1994'.
SEC. 26. CONVEYANCE OF CAPE MAY POINT LIGHTHOUSE.
 (a)(1) The Secretary may convey to the State of New Jersey, by any appropriate
 means of conveyance, all right, title, and interest of the  United States
 in and to property comprising the Cape May Point Lighthouse.
 (2) The Secretary may identify, describe, and determine the property to be
 conveyed pursuant to this section.
 (b)(1) A conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be made--
 (A) without the payment of consideration; and
 (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider
 appropriate.
 (2) In addition to any term or condition established pursuant to paragraph
 (1), any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject to
 the condition that all right, title, and interest in and to all such property
 so conveyed shall immediately revert to the United States if the property,
 or any part thereof, ceases to be used as a nonprofit center for public
 benefit for the interpretation and preservation of the material culture of the
 United States Coast Guard and the maritime history of Cape May, New Jersey.
 (3) Any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to such conditions as the Secretary considers to be necessary to assure that--
 (A) the light, antennas, sound signal, and associated equipment located on
 the property conveyed, which are active aids to navigation, shall continue
 to be operated and maintained by the United States;
 (B) the State of New Jersey may not interfere or allow interference in any
 manner with such aids to navigation without express written permission from
 the United States;
 (C) there is reserved to the United States the right to relocate, replace,
 or add any aids to navigation or make any changes on any portion of such
 property as may be necessary for navigation purposes;
 (D) the United States shall have the right, at any time, to enter such
 property without notice for the purpose of maintaining navigation aids; and
 (E) the United States shall have an easement of access to such property
 for the purpose of maintaining the navigational aids in use on the property.
 (4) The State of New Jersey shall not have any obligation to maintain
 any active aid to navigation equipment on property conveyed pursuant to
 this section.
 (c) For purposes of this section--
 (1) `Cape May Point Lighthouse' means the Coast Guard lighthouse located
 at Cape May, New Jersey, including the attached keeper's dwelling, several
 ancillary buildings, the associated fog signal, and such land as may be
 necessary to enable the State of New Jersey to operate at that lighthouse a
 nonprofit center for public benefit for the interpretation and preservation
 of the material culture of the United States Coast Guard and the maritime
 history of Cape May, New Jersey; and
 (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the department in which the Coast
 Guard is operating.
SEC. 27. SHIP SHOAL LIGHTHOUSE TRANSFER.
 Notwithstanding another law, the Secretary of Transportation shall transfer
 without consideration to the city of Berwick, Louisiana, all rights, title,
 and interest of the  United States in the aid to navigation structure known
 as the Ship Shoal Lighthouse, Louisiana.
SEC. 28. CAPE COD LIGHTHOUSE AND SANKATY HEAD LIGHT STATION.
 (a)(1) Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this
 Act, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary
 of the Army, the Secretary of the Interior, appropriate State, local, and
 other governmental entities, and private preservation groups, shall develop a
 strategy regarding the relocation, ownership, maintenance, operation, and use
 of Cape Cod Lighthouse (otherwise known as `Highland Light') in North Truro,
 Massachusetts, and Sankaty Head Light Station in Nantucket, Massachusetts.
 (2) In developing the strategy, the Secretary shall determine whether and
 under what conditions it would be appropriate to convey the rights, title,
 and interest of the United States in Cape Cod Lighthouse and Sankaty Head
 Light Station to other Federal, State, or local government agencies or
 private preservation groups.
 (3) In preparing the strategy with respect to Cape Cod Lighthouse, the
 Secretary shall consult with the Director of the National Park Service to
 determine whether the lighthouse should become part of the National Park
 at Cape Cod National Seashore.
 (4) Any strategy developed under this section shall be consistent with--
 (A) the provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470
 et seq.) and other applicable laws; and
 (B) the goal of interpreting and preserving material culture of the United
 States Coast Guard.
 (b) After completion of the strategy under subsection (a), the Secretary of
 Transportation may convey, by any appropriate means, all right, title, and
 interest of the United States in either or both of Cape Cod Lighthouse and
 Sankaty Head Light Station to one or more Federal, State, or local government
 agencies or appropriate nonprofit private preservation groups. Any conveyance
 under this subsection shall be made--
 (1) without payment of consideration;
 (2) subject to appropriate terms and conditions as the Secretary of
 Transportation considers necessary; and
 (3) subject to the condition that if the terms and conditions established
 by the Secretary are not met, the property conveyed shall revert to the
 United States.
SEC. 29. TRANSFER OF HECETA HEAD AND CAPE BLANCO LIGHTHOUSES.
 (a)(1) The Secretary may convey by any appropriate means to the State
 of Oregon all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to
 property comprising one or both of the Heceta Head Lighthouse and the Cape
 Blanco Lighthouse.
 (2) The Secretary may identify, describe, and determine property conveyed
 pursuant to this section.
 (b)(1) The conveyance of property pursuant to subsection (a) shall be made--
 (A) without the payment of consideration; and
 (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider
 appropriate.
 (2) In addition to any term or condition established pursuant to paragraph
 (1), any conveyance of property comprising Heceta Head Lighthouse or
 Cape Blanco Lighthouse pursuant to this section shall be subject to the
 condition that all right, title, and interest in and to the property so
 conveyed shall immediately revert to the United States if the property,
 or any part thereof, ceases to be used as a nonprofit center for public
 benefit for the interpretation and preservation of the maritime history of
 Heceta Head or Cape Blanco, as applicable.
 (3) Any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be made subject
 to such conditions as the Secretary considers to be necessary to assure that--
 (A) the light, antennas, and associated equipment located on the property
 conveyed, which are active aids to navigation, shall continue to be operated
 and maintained by the United States;
 (B) the State of Oregon may not interfere or allow interference in any
 manner with such aids to navigation without express written permission from
 the United States;
 (C) there is reserved to the United States the right to relocate, replace,
 or add any aids to navigation or make any changes on any portion of such
 property as may be necessary for navigation purposes;
 (D) the United States shall have the right, at any time, to enter such
 property without notice for the purpose of maintaining aids to navigation; and
 (E) the United States shall have an easement of access to such property
 for the purpose of maintaining the aids to navigation in use on the property.
 (4) The State of Oregon shall not have any obligation to maintain any active
 aid to navigation equipment on property conveyed pursuant to this section.
 (c) For purposes of this section, the term--
 (1) `Heceta Head Lighthouse' means the Coast Guard lighthouse located at
 Heceta Head, Oregon, including--
 (A) the classical fresnel lens;
 (B) the keeper's dwelling;
 (C) several ancillary buildings; and
 (D) such land as may be necessary to enable the State of Oregon to operate at
 that lighthouse a nonprofit center for public benefit for the interpretation
 and preservation of the maritime history of Heceta Head, Oregon;
 (2) `Cape Blanco Lighthouse' means the Coast Guard lighthouse located at
 Cape Blanco, Oregon, including--
 (A) the classical fresnel lens;
 (B) several ancillary buildings; and
 (C) such land as may be necessary to enable the State of Oregon to operate at
 that lighthouse a nonprofit center for public benefit for the interpretation
 and preservation of the maritime history of Cape Blanco, Oregon; and
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the department in which
 the Coast Guard is operating.
SEC. 30. CONVEYANCE OF WHITE ISLAND LIGHTHOUSE.
 (a)(1) The Secretary shall convey to the State of New Hampshire, by any
 appropriate means of conveyance, all rights, title, and interest of the
 United States in and to property comprising the White Island Lighthouse.
 (2) The Secretary may identify, describe, and determine the property to be
 conveyed pursuant to this section.
 (b)(1) A conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be made--
 (A) without the payment of consideration; and
 (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider
 appropriate.
 (2) In addition to any term or condition established pursuant to paragraph
 (1), any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to the condition that all rights, title, and interest in and to all such
 property so conveyed shall immediately revert to the United States if the
 property so conveyed ceases to be used as a nonprofit center for public
 benefit. In connection therewith, the property may be used for educational,
 historic, recreational, and cultural programs open to and for the benefit
 of the general public. Theme displays, museum, gift shop, open exhibits,
 meeting rooms, and an office and quarters for personnel in connection with
 security and administration of the property are expressly authorized. Other
 uses not inconsistent with the foregoing uses are permitted unless the
 Secretary shall reasonably determine that such uses are incompatible with
 the historic nature of the property or with other provisions of this section.
 (3) Any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to such conditions as the Secretary considers to be necessary to assure that--
 (A) any light, antennas, sound signal, and associated equipment located on
 the property conveyed, which are active aids to navigation, shall continue
 to be operated and maintained by the United States;
 (B) the State of New Hampshire may not interfere or allow interference in
 any manner with such aids to navigation without express written permission
 from the United States;
 (C) there is reserved to the United States the right to relocate, replace,
 or add any aids to navigation or make any changes on any portion of such
 property as may be necessary for navigation purposes;
 (D) the United States shall have the right, at any time, to enter such
 property with notice for the purpose of maintaining navigational aids; and
 (E) the United States shall have an easement of access to such property
 for the purpose of maintaining the navigational aids in use on the property.
 (4) The State of New Hampshire, shall not have any obligation to maintain
 any active aid-to-navigation equipment on property conveyed pursuant to
 this section.
 (c) For purposes of this section, the term `White Island Lighthouse'
 means the Coast Guard lighthouse located at White Island, Isles of Shoals,
 New Hampshire, including the attached keeper's dwelling, several ancillary
 buildings, the associated fog signal, and such lands as may be necessary to
 enable the State of New Hampshire to operate at that lighthouse a nonprofit
 center for public benefit.
SEC. 31. CONVEYANCE OF PORTLAND HEAD LIGHTHOUSE.
 (a)(1) The Secretary shall convey to the Town of Cape Elizabeth, Maine,
 by any appropriate means of conveyance, all right, title, and interest of
 the United States in and to property comprising the Portland Head Lighthouse.
 (2) The Secretary may identify, describe, and determine the property to be
 conveyed pursuant to this section.
 (b)(1) A conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be made--
 (A) without the payment of consideration; and
 (B) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may consider
 appropriate.
 (2) In addition to any term or condition established pursuant to paragraph
 (1), any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to the condition that all right, title, and interest in and to all such
 property so conveyed shall immediately revert to the United States if the
 property so conveyed ceases to be used as a nonprofit center for public
 benefit. In connection therewith, the property may be used for educational,
 historic, recreational, and cultural programs open to and for the benefit of
 the general public. Theme displays, museum, gift shop, open exhibits, meeting
 rooms, and an office and quarters for personnel in connection with security
 and administration of the property and the adjacent Fort Williams Park, owned
 and operated by the Town of Cape Elizabeth, are expressly authorized. Other
 uses not inconsistent with the foregoing uses are permitted unless the
 Secretary shall reasonably determine that such uses are incompatible with
 the historic nature of the property or with other provisions of this section.
 (3) Any conveyance of property pursuant to this section shall be subject
 to such conditions as the Secretary considers to be necessary to assure that--
 (A) any light, antennas, sound signal, and associated equipment located on
 the property conveyed, which are active aids to navigation, shall continue
 to be operated and maintained by the United States;
 (B) the Town of Cape Elizabeth may not interfere or allow interference in
 any manner with such aids to navigation without express written permission
 from the United States;
 (C) there is reserved to the United States the right to relocate, replace,
 or add any aids to navigation or make any changes on any portion of such
 property as may be necessary for navigation purposes;
 (D) the United States shall have the right, at any time, to enter such
 property with notice for the purpose of maintaining navigational aids; and
 (E) the United States shall have an easement of access to such property
 for the purpose of maintaining the navigational aids in use on the property.
 (4) The Town of Cape Elizabeth shall not have any obligation to maintain
 any active aid-to-navigation equipment on property conveyed pursuant to
 this section.
 (c) For purposes of this section, the term--
 (1) `Portland Head Lighthouse' means the Coast Guard lighthouse located at
 Cape Elizabeth, Maine, including the attached keeper's dwelling, several
 ancillary buildings, the associated fog signal, and such lands as may be
 necessary to enable the Town of Cape Elizabeth to operate at that lighthouse
 a nonprofit center for public benefit; and
 (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the department in which the Coast
 Guard is operating.
SEC. 32. OIL POLLUTION REPORT.
 Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 of Transportation shall report to Congress on the effect of section 1018
 of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380; 104 Stat. 484) on the
 safety of vessels being used to transport oil and the capability of owners
 and operators to meet their legal obligations in the event of an oil spill.
SEC. 33. PASSENGER VESSEL INVESTIGATIONS.
 Section 6101 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(e)(1) This chapter applies to a marine casualty involving a United States
 citizen on a foreign passenger vessel operating south of 75 degrees north
 latitude, west of 35 degrees west longitude, and east of the International
 Date Line; or operating in the area south of 60 degrees south latitude that--
 `(A) embarks or disembarks passengers in the United States; or
 `(B) transports passengers traveling under any form of air and sea ticket
 package marketed in the United States.
 `(2) When there is a marine casualty described in paragraph (1) of this
 subsection and an investigation is conducted, the Secretary shall ensure
 that the investigation--
 `(A) is thorough and timely; and
 `(B) produces findings and recommendations to improve safety on passenger
 vessels.
 `(3) When there is a marine casualty described in paragraph (1) of this
 subsection, the Secretary may--
 `(A) seek a multinational investigation of the casualty under auspices of
 the International Maritime Organization; or
 `(B) conduct an investigation of the casualty under chapter 63 of this
 title.'.
SEC. 34. PORTION OF SACRAMENTO RIVER BARGE CANAL DECLARED TO NOT BE NAVIGABLE
WATERS OF UNITED STATES.
 For purposes of bridge administration, the Sacramento River Barge Canal,
 which connects the Sacramento Deep Water Ship Channel with the Sacramento
 River in West Sacramento, Yolo County, California, is declared to not be
 navigable waters of the United States for purposes of the General Bridge
 Act of 1946 (33 U.S.C. 525 et seq.) from the eastern boundary of the Port
 of Sacramento to a point 1,200 feet east of the William G. Stone Lock.
SEC. 35. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS RELATING TO THE ROLE OF THE COAST GUARD IN
THE PERSIAN GULF CONFLICT.
 (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) members of the Coast Guard played an important role in the Persian
 Gulf Conflict;
 (2) nine hundred and fifty members of the Coast Guard Reserve were called
 to active duty during the Persian Gulf Conflict and participated in various
 activities, including vessel inspection, port safety and security, and
 supervision of loading and unloading hazardous military cargo;
 (3) members of Coast Guard Law Enforcement Detachments led or directly
 participated in approximately 60 percent of the six hundred vessel boardings
 in support of maritime interception operations in the Middle East;
 (4) ten Coast Guard Law Enforcement Teams were deployed for enforcement of
 United Nations sanctions during the Persian Gulf Conflict;
 (5) over three hundred men and women in the Coast Guard Vessel Inspection
 Program participated in the inspection of military sealift vessels and
 facilitated the efficient transportation of hazardous materials, munitions,
 and other supplies to the combat zone;
 (6) members of the Coast Guard served in the Joint Information Bureau Combat
 Camera and Public Affairs staffs;
 (7) approximately five hundred and fifty members of the Coast Guard served
 in port security units in the Persian Gulf area, providing port security
 and waterside protection for ships unloading essential military cargo;
 (8) the Coast Guard Environmental Response Program headed the international
 Interagency Oil Pollution Response Advisory Team for cleanup efforts relating
 to the massive oil spill off the coasts of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia;
 (9) the Coast Guard Research and Development Center developed a deployable
 positioning system for the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Area Search Detachment,
 saving the detachment time and thousands of dollars, while also increasing
 the effectiveness and efficiency of the minesweeping and ordnance disposal
 operations in the Persian Gulf area; and
 (10) Coast Guard units remain in the Persian Gulf area and continue to
 provide essential support including both port security and law enforcement.
 (b) The Congress commends the Coast Guard for the important role it played
 in the Persian Gulf Conflict and urges the people of the United States to
 recognize that role.
SEC. 36. BRIDGE ACROSS WAPPINGER CREEK, NEW YORK.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the railroad bridge across
 Wappinger Creek, mile 0.0. at New Hamburg, New York, is hereby determined
 to provide for the reasonable needs of navigation under the Act of March 3,
 1899 (33 U.S.C. 401), section 1 of the Act of March 23, 1906 (33 U.S.C. 491),
 and section 502(b) of the General Bridge Act of 1946 (33 U.S.C. 525(b)),
 at the closed position and need not be maintained as a movable structure.
SEC. 37. VESSEL SAFETY NEAR STRAIT OF JUAN DE FUCA.
 The Secretary of Transportation, through the Secretary of State, is directed
 to enter into discussions with their appropriate Canadian counterparts to
 examine alternatives to improve commercial vessel traffic safety off the
 entrance to the Strait of Juan de Fuca.
SEC. 38. TRANSFER OF CERTAIN PROPERTY AT FOLLY BEACH, SOUTH CAROLINA.
 (a) Notwithstanding another law, the Secretary of Transportation shall
 transfer without consideration to the Charleston County Park and Recreation
 Commission all rights, title, and interest of the United States in Coast
 Guard property located at Folly Island, Charleston County, South Carolina,
 described in subsection (b) subject to existing easements and restrictions
 of record. The transferee shall pay for all conveyance costs.
 (b) The property to be transferred under subsection (a) is described as
 commencing at a point in the center of the United States Army Observation
 Steel Tower (32 degrees 41 minutes 13.590 seconds north latitude, 79 degrees
 53 minutes 16.783 seconds west longitude), and running from there due south
 261.75 feet to a point at 32 degrees 41 minutes 11 seconds north latitude, 79
 degrees 53 minutes 16.783 seconds west longitude, for a point of beginning;
 running from there, due east along north latitude 32 degrees 41 minutes 11
 seconds 854 feet, more or less, to a point in the low water line; from there,
 running southerly and southwesterly along the meanderings of such low water
 line 4650 feet, more or less, to the intersection of such low water line with
 west longitude 79 degrees 53 minutes 30 seconds; from there, running due north
 along such longitude 3380 feet, more or less, to the intersection of such
 longitude with north latitude 32 degrees 41 minutes 11 seconds; from there,
 running due east along such latitude 1129.64 feet to the point of beginning,
 containing 143 acres, more or less (part high and part submerged lands);
 together with the 2300 volt power line, and all power line rights-of-way
 connected therewith, extending from the Government's property at the east
 end of Folly Island to such power line's connection with the South Carolina
 Power Company's power line at Folly Beach.
SEC. 39. REQUIREMENT TO REPORT ON CERTAIN POLLUTION INCIDENTS.
 Section 7 of the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1906)
 is amended to read as follows:
 `SEC. 7. (a) The master, person in charge, owner, charterer, manager, or
 operator of a ship involved in an incident shall report the incident in
 the manner prescribed by Article 8 of the Convention in accordance with
 regulations promulgated by the Secretary for that purpose.
 `(b) The master or person in charge of--
 `(1) a ship of United States registry or nationality, or operated under
 the authority of the United States, wherever located;
 `(2) another ship while in the navigable waters of the United States; or
 `(3) a sea port or oil handling facility subject to the jurisdiction of
 the United States,
shall report a discharge, probable discharge, or presence of oil in the manner
prescribed by Article 4 of the International Convention on Oil Pollution
Preparedness, Response and Cooperation, 1990 (adopted at London, November
30, 1990), in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary for
that purpose.'.
SEC. 40. AMENDMENTS TO IMPLEMENT INTERNATIONAL SALVAGE CONVENTION, 1989.
 (a) Section 3 of the Act of August 1, 1912 (46 App. U.S.C. 729), is amended
 by striking all after `fair share of the' and substituting `payment awarded
 to the salvor for salving the vessel or other property or preventing or
 minimizing damage to the environment.'.
 (b) Section 5 of the Act of August 1, 1912 (46 App. U.S.C. 731), is amended
 by striking `Nothing in this Act' and substituting `Nothing in sections 1,
 3, and 4 of this Act and section 2304 of title 46, United States Code,'.
SEC. 41. CERTIFICATE OF DOCUMENTATION FOR MAYFLOWER II.
 (a) Notwithstanding section 12106 of title 46, United States Code, and section
 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (46 App. U.S.C. 883), as applicable on
 the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation may issue
 a certificate of documentation with appropriate endorsement for employment in
 the coastwise trade of the United States for the vessel MAYFLOWER II, owned
 by Plimoth Plantation, Inc., a corporation under the laws of Massachusetts.
 (b)(1) The Secretary may exempt the vessel MAYFLOWER II from compliance with--
 (A) any requirement relating to inspection or safety under title 46, United
 States Code; and
 (B) any requirement relating to navigation under title 33, United States Code.
 (2) If the Secretary exempts the vessel from any requirement under paragraph
 (1), the Secretary may establish an alternative requirement designed to
 provide for the safety of the passengers and crew of the vessel.
SEC. 42. JOHN F. LIMEHOUSE MEMORIAL BRIDGE.
 Notwithstanding another law, the John F. Limehouse Memorial Bridge across
 the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway in Charleston County, South Carolina,
 is deemed an unreasonable obstruction to navigation.
SEC. 43. OREGON OIL SPILL RESPONSE STUDY.
 Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,
 Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives a report examining
 the adequacy of pre-positioned oil spill response equipment to respond
 to potential damage caused by spills upriver on the Columbia River where
 commercial and government marine vessel activity takes place.
SEC. 44. TRANSPORTATION SUBSIDY.
 The Department of Transportation may include military personnel of the Coast
 Guard in any program in which the Department participates under section 629
 of the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act,
 1991, Public Law 101-509, notwithstanding section 629(c)(2) of that Act.
SEC. 45. CHATHAM HARBOR, MASSACHUSETTS.
 Not later than thirty days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Commandant of the Coast Guard shall provide to the United States Army Corps
 of Engineers New England Division for incorporation into their Feasibility
 Study on Improvement Dredging in Chatham Harbor, the following information:
 (1) a description of the current and projected future navigational hazards
 in Chatham Harbor caused by shoaling in and around Aunt Lydia's Cove;
 (2) the current and projected impacts, of these navigational hazards on
 the Coast Guard's missions, including:
 (A) impacts on search and rescue responses;
 (B) impacts on the area of response;
 (C) types and costs of any special equipment needed to navigate the
 channel; and
 (D) potential impacts on boater safety; and
 (3) the benefits to local boaters and the Coast Guard that would result
 from improved navigation.
SEC. 46. JONES ACT WAIVERS FOR CERTAIN VESSELS.
 Notwithstanding sections 12106, 12107, and 12108 of title 46, United States
 Code, and section 27 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 (46 App. U.S.C. 883),
 as applicable on the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
 Transportation may issue a certificate of documentation for the following
 vessels:
 (1) MISS LELIA, United States official number 577213.
 (2) BILLFISH, United States official number 920896.
 (3) MARSH GRASS III, United States official number 963616.
SEC. 47. NATIONAL MARITIME ENHANCEMENT INSTITUTES.
 Section 8(e) of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize appropriations for
 fiscal year 1990 for the Maritime Administration, and for other purposes',
 approved October 13, 1989 (46 App. U.S.C. 1121-2(e)), is amended by striking
 `shall not exceed $100,000' and substituting `by the Secretary shall not
 exceed $500,000'.
SEC. 48. ACQUISITION OF SPACE IN VIRGINIA.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall acquire space from the administrator of
 General Services in the area of Newport News-Norfolk, Virginia, for use
 for consolidating and meeting the long-term space needs of the National
 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in a cost effective manner. In order
 to acquire this space, the Administrator of General Services may, with the
 consent of the Secretary of Commerce, exchange real property owned by the
 Department of Commerce for other real property, including improvements to
 that property, in that area.
SEC. 49. ACQUISITION OF SPACE IN ALASKA.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall acquire space from the administrator of
 General Services on Near Island in Kodiak, Alaska, that meets the long-term
 space needs of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, if the
 maximum annul cost of leasing the building in which the space is located
 is not more than $1,000,000.
SEC. 50. TRANSFER AT JUNEAU, ALASKA.
 (a) Notwithstanding another provision of law, the Secretary of Transportation
 shall transfer without consideration to the Secretary of Commerce all
 rights, title, and interest of the United States in Coast Guard property
 and improvements at Auke Cape, Alaska (Lot 2 on United States Survey Number
 3811 comprising 28.16 acres), located approximately 11 miles northwest of
 Juneau, Alaska.
 (b) The Secretary of Commerce shall make the property transferred under
 this section available to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
SEC. 51. STUDY OF JOINT ENFORCEMENT OF MARINE SANCTUARY REGULATIONS.
 Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the
 Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation a joint report
 describing methods by which Coast Guard enforcement efforts under the
 Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1431
 et seq.) may be enhanced and coordinated with those of the National Oceanic
 and Atmospheric Administration. The report shall--
 (1) evaluate the ability of the Coast Guard to address key enforcement
 problems, which the Secretary of Commerce shall identify, for each national
 marine sanctuary;
 (2) propose procedures by which the Coast Guard and the National Oceanic and
 Atmospheric Administration may coordinate their efforts in order to improve
 and maximize effective enforcement of marine sanctuary regulations; and
 (3) recommend appropriate levels of Coast Guard participation in the efforts.
SEC. 52. DECLARATION OF NONNAVIGABILITY FOR PORTIONS OF PELICAN ISLAND, TEXAS.
 (a) Subject to the provisions of subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this
 section, those portions of Pelican Island, Texas, which are not submerged
 and which are within the following property descriptions, are declared to
 be nonnavigable waters of the United States:
 (1) A 1,903.6655 acre tract of land situated in Galveston County, Texas,
 within the Galveston City Limits and on Pelican Island and being more
 particularly described by metes and bounds as follows, with all control
 referred to the Texas State Plane Coordinate System, Lambert Projection,
 South Central Zone:
 Beginning at a United States Corps of Engineers concrete monument with a
 brass cap, being Corps of Engineers station 40+00 and being located on the
 southwesterly line of a United States Government Reservation and having
 Texas State Plane Coordinate Value of X=3,340,636.67, Y=568,271.91;
 thence south 57 degrees 00 minutes 04 seconds east, 501.68 feet to a point
 for corner;
 thence north 37 degrees 18 minutes 11 seconds east, 2,802.65 feet to a
 point for corner;
 thence north 79 degrees 03 minutes 47 seconds east, 798.87 feet to a point
 for corner;
 thence north 15 degrees 34 minutes 53 seconds east, 2,200.00 feet to a
 point for corner located on the north harbor line of Pelican Island;
 thence along said north harbor line south 63 degrees 00 minutes 45 seconds
 east 306.04 feet to a point for corner;
 thence leaving said harbor line south 15 degrees 34 minutes 53 seconds west,
 at 1,946.05 feet past the northwesterly corner of Seawolf Park, in all a
 total distance of 2,285.87 feet to the southwesterly corner of Seawolf Park;
 thence along the southeasterly line of said Seawolf Park, south 74 degrees
 25 minutes 07 seconds east, 421.01 feet to a point for corner;
 thence continuing along said line south 65 degrees 12 minutes 37 seconds
 east, 93.74 feet to a point for corner;
 thence south 63 degrees 00 minutes 45 seconds east, 800.02 feet to a point
 for corner on Galveston Channel Harbor Line;
 thence along said Galveston Channel Harbor Line as follows:
 south 15 degrees 14 minutes 01 second west, 965.95 feet to a point,
 south 74 degrees 26 minutes 20 seconds east, 37.64 feet to a point,
 south 15 degrees 33 minutes 40 seconds west, 2,779.13 feet to a point,
 south 36 degrees 18 minutes 31 seconds west, 1,809.93 feet to a point,
 south 36 degrees 24 minutes 57 seconds west, 190.98 feet to a point,
 south 40 degrees 37 minutes 46 seconds west, 558.04 feet to a point,
 south 49 degrees 02 minutes 41 seconds west, 558.16 feet to a point,
 south 53 degrees 15 minutes 03 seconds west, 1,557.49 feet to a point,
 south 55 degrees 34 minutes 51 seconds west, 455.45 feet to a point,
 south 60 degrees 14 minutes 23 seconds west, 455.37 feet to a point,
 south 62 degrees 34 minutes 14 seconds west, 426.02 feet to a point,
 south 68 degrees 11 minutes 32 seconds west, 784.25 feet to a point,
 south 79 degrees 26 minutes 20 seconds west, 784.21 feet to a point,
 south 85 degrees 03 minutes 42 seconds west, 761.77 feet to a point,
 south 86 degrees 42 minutes 35 seconds west, 1,092.97 feet to a point,
 north 89 degrees 59 minutes 40 seconds west, 827.53 feet to a point,
 north 88 degrees 20 minutes 24 seconds west, 1,853.01 feet to a point,
 south 62 degrees 11 minutes 55 seconds west, 45.94 feet to a point,
 north 88 degrees 04 minutes 15 seconds west, 653.80 feet to a point, and
 north 78 degrees 19 minutes 36 seconds west, 1,871.96 feet to a point for
 corner located on the Mean High Water Line (0.88 foot contour line, above
 sea level datum);
 thence leaving said Harbor Line and following the meanders of said Mean
 High Water Line along Galveston Bay as follows:
 north 26 degrees 26 minutes 35 seconds west, 1,044.28 feet to a point,
 north 25 degrees 25 minutes 56 seconds east, 242.71 feet to a point,
 north 16 degrees 42 minutes 01 second west, 270.77 feet to a point,
 north 10 degrees 04 minutes 05 seconds west, 508.36 feet to a point,
 north 11 degrees 21 minutes 01 second west, 732.39 feet to a point,
 north 03 degrees 45 minutes 31 seconds west, 446.34 feet to a point,
 north 03 degrees 08 minutes 15 seconds west, 566.01 feet to a point,
 north 02 degrees 48 minutes 50 seconds west, 288.02 feet to a point,
 north 06 degrees 53 minutes 40 seconds west, 301.48 feet to a point,
 north 19 degrees 04 minutes 56 seconds east, 407.38 feet to a point,
 north 12 degrees 28 minutes 05 seconds east, 346.79 feet to a point,
 north 01 degrees 30 minutes 23 seconds east, 222.91 feet to a point, and
 north 08 degrees 08 minutes 07 seconds east, 289.74 feet to a point for
 corner;
 thence leaving said Mean High Water Line north 84 degrees 43 minutes
 15 seconds east 10,099.75 feet to the point of beginning and containing
 1,903.6655 acres of land.
 (2) All of that certain tract of 206.6116 acres of land, being part of and
 out of Pelican Island, in the City of Galveston, Galveston County, Texas,
 and being more particularly described by metes and bounds as follows:
 Beginning at the most northwesterly corner of the Pelican Spit Military
 Reservation, as described in the Deed from the City of Galveston unto the
 United States of America, dated April 29, 1907, and recorded in Book 221,
 at Page 416 of the Office of the County Clerk of Galveston County, Texas,
 said point being Pelican Island Coordinates N=15,171.20 and E=11,533.92;
 thence north 29 degrees 11 minutes 52 seconds east, a distance of 100.00
 feet to a 2-inch iron pipe for corner, said corner being the most southerly
 corner of the herein described tract, and place of beginning:
 thence north 60 degrees 48 minutes 08 seconds west, a distance of 3,000.00
 feet to a 2-inch iron pipe for corner;
 thence north 29 degrees 11 minutes 52 seconds east, a distance of 3,000.00
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence south 60 degrees 48 minutes 08 seconds east, a distance of 3,000.00
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence south 29 degrees 11 minutes 52 seconds west, a distance of 3,000.00
 feet to the place of beginning, containing 206.6116 acres.
 (3) Beginning at point `H' (point `H' is also known as point `3' on Pelican
 Island Harbor Line), the coordinates of which are South 8,827.773 meters
 and East 11,483.592 meters, on Pelican Island proposed harbor line;
 thence with harbor line north 61 degrees west 800 feet;
 thence south 17 degrees 35 minutes 38 seconds west 2,200 feet;
 thence south 61 degrees east 800 feet to proposed harbor line;
 thence with proposed harbor line north 17 degrees 35 minutes 38 seconds
 east to the place of beginning and containing 39.88 acres, more or less,
 together with all buildings, utilities, and improvements thereon.
 (4) Beginning at a point in the westerly property line of the tract described
 in paragraph (3), said point being 285.00 feet bearing north 17 degrees 35
 minutes 38 seconds east from the southwest corner of said tract;
 thence north 72 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds west, a distance of 346.00 feet;
 thence north 14 degrees 58 minutes 09 seconds east, a distance of 610.00 feet;
 thence south 72 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds east, a distance of 374.00 feet;
 thence south 17 degrees 35 minutes 38 seconds west, a distance of 609.36 feet
 to the point of beginning and containing 5.036 acres of land, more or less.
 (5) Beginning at the southwest corner of the tract described in paragraph (3);
 thence north 63 degrees 11 minutes 52 seconds west, a distance of 93.74
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence north 72 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds west, a distance of 421.01
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence north 17 degrees 35 minutes 38 seconds east, a distance of 339.82
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence south 82 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds east, a distance of 86.03
 feet to a point for corner;
 thence north 77 degrees 11 minutes 26 seconds east, a distance of 89.12
 feet to a point for corner in the westerly line of the tract described in
 paragraph (4);
 thence south 14 degrees 58 minutes 09 seconds west, with said westerly line,
 a distance of 130.00 feet to a point for corner, the southwest corner of
 the tract described in paragraph (4);
 thence south 72 degrees 24 minutes 22 seconds east, with the southerly line
 of the tract described in paragraph (4), a distance of 346.00 feet to a point
 for corner, the southeast corner of the tract described in paragraph (4);
 thence south 17 degrees 35 minutes 38 seconds west, with the westerly line
 of the tract described in paragraph (3), a distance of 285.00 feet to a
 point of beginning, containing 3.548 acres of land, more or less.
 (b) Notwithstanding the declaration under subsection (a), the following
 portions of Pelican Island, Texas, within those lands described in subsection
 (a) shall remain navigable waters of the United States:
 (1) Out of the Eneas Smith Survey, A-190, on Pelican Island, the 2.7392
 acre tract, the 3.2779 acre tract, and the 2.8557 acre tract described
 in the Perpetual Easements dated May 9, 1975, from Mitchell Development
 Corporation of the Southwest to the United States, recorded on pages 111
 through 122 of Book 2571 of the Real Property Records in the Office of the
 County Clerk of Galveston County, Texas.
 (2) Out of the Eneas Smith Survey, A-190, on Pelican Island, the 1.8361 acre
 tract of land described in Exhibit `B' of the Specific Location of Pipeline
 Easement dated July 30, 1975, by and between the Mitchell Development
 Corporation of the Southwest, the United States of America, and Chase
 Manhattan Bank (National Association), recorded on pages 9 through 14 of
 Book 2605 of the Real Property Records in the Office of the County Clerk
 of Galveston County, Texas.
 (3) For each of the four tracts of land described in paragraphs (1) and
 (2) of this subsection, a 40-foot wide strip of land along, adjacent and
 parallel to, and extending the full length of, the easterly boundary line of
 the tract and a 40-foot wide strip of land along, adjacent and parallel to,
 and extending the full length of, the westerly boundary line of the tract.
 (c) The declaration under subsection (a) shall apply only to those parts of
 the areas described in subsection (a) of this section and not described in
 subsection (b) of this section which are or will be bulkheaded and filled
 or otherwise occupied by permanent structures or other permanent physical
 improvements, including marina facilities. All such work is subject to
 applicable Federal statutes and regulations, including sections 9 and 10 of
 the Act of March 3, 1899 (commonly referred to as the `Rivers and Harbors
 Appropriation Act of 1899' (33 U.S.C. 401 and 403)), section 404 of the
 Federal Water Pollution Control Act and the National Environmental Policy
 Act of 1969.
 (d) If, 20 years from the date of the enactment of this Act, any area or
 part thereof described in subsection (a) of this section and not described
 in subsection (b) of this section is not bulkheaded or filled or occupied
 by permanent structures or other permanent physical improvements, including
 marina facilities, in accordance with the requirements set out in subsection
 (c) of this section, or if work is not commenced within five years after
 issuance of any permits required to be obtained under subsection (c), then
 the declaration of nonnavigability for such area or part thereof shall expire.
SEC. 53. DISCLOSURE REGARDING RECREATIONAL VESSEL FEE.
 Section 2110(b) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following new paragraph:
 `(5) The Secretary shall provide to each person who pays a fee or charge
 under this subsection a separate document on which appears, in readily
 discernible print, only the following statement: `The fees for which this
 document was provided was established under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
 Act of 1990. Persons paying this fee can expect no increase in the quantity,
 quality, or variety of services the person receives from the Coast Guard
 as a result of that payment.'.'
SEC. 54. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON COAST GUARD RESCUE EFFORTS.
 (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) during the month of October, Air Station Cape Cod experienced one of the
 most intense periods of search and rescue activities, including fifty-one
 search and rescue cases of which twenty-seven were in the last ten days of
 the month;
 (2) immediately prior to the winter storm that ravaged Cape Cod from October
 28 to November 1, with average seas of 35-40 feet and winds exceeding
 eighty knots, coastal small boat station personnel on Cape Cod and the
 Islands of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard successfully worked with the
 local communities and the fishing industry to secure the small coastal
 ports to minimize damage to vessels and property;
 (3) Group Portland, Group Boston, and Group Woods Hole units suffered
 significant damage to coastal small boat stations, lighthouses, and other
 aids to navigation but this damage did not affect operational readiness
 and Coast Guard boats and aircraft were prepared to respond to emergencies;
 (4) during the five-day period from October 28 to November 1, the Coast
 Guard Cutter GENETIN, Coast Guard Cutter BEAR and Coast Guard helicopters
 stationed at Elizabeth City, North Carolina participated in five offshore
 rescue operations that saved twenty-one lives;
 (5) Coast Guard flight crews operating from Elizabeth City logged fifty-six
 hours of flight time during the seventy-two-hour-period when Hurricane
 Grace buffeted the North Carolina Coast;
 (6) The Coast Guard performed these search and rescue operations while
 fulfilling other important missions including the monitoring of a sulfuric
 acid spill and a sensitive law enforcement operation.
 (b) The Congress commends the Coast Guard units involved for their remarkable
 skill, performance and dedication in protecting life and property and urges
 the people of the United States to recognize this job well done.
SEC. 55. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS ON RECREATIONAL BOAT FEES.
 (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) under section 9701 of title 31, United States Code, and section 664 of
 title 14, United States Code, Coast Guard user fees must be fair, based
 on the cost to the Coast Guard of providing services or things of value,
 based on the value of services or things of value provided by the Coast
 Guard, and based on a valid public policy or interest;
 (2) the Coast Guard fee imposed upon recreational boaters under section
 2110(b) of title 46, United States Code, was established under the Omnibus
 Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508; 104 Stat. 1388-1397);
 (3) recreational boaters who are required to pay this fee cannot expect to
 receive any additional service in return for payment of the fee;
 (4) recreational boaters already pay a motorboat fuel tax that contributes
 to the Coast Guard budget; and
 (5) the fee imposed upon recreational boaters will not be directly available
 to the Coast Guard to increase services that would benefit recreational
 boaters.
 (b) It is the sense of Congress that the requirement that the Coast Guard
 collect a fee from recreational boaters under section 2110(b) of title 46,
 United States Code, should be repealed immediately upon enactment of an
 offsetting receipts provision to comply with the requirements of the Omnibus
 Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.
SEC. 56. COOPERATIVE INSTITUTE OF FISHERIES OCEANOGRAPHY.
 (a) In recognition of the memorandum of understanding of March 2, 1989,
 regarding the Cooperative Institute of Fisheries Oceanography (hereinafter in
 this section referred to as the `Institute'), the Institute is established
 within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, in partnership
 with Duke University and the Consolidated University of North Carolina.
 (b) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce
 $525,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $546,000 for fiscal year 1993, to remain
 available until expended, for use for activities of the Institute.
 (c) Amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (b) may be used for--
 (1) administration of the Institute;
 (2) research conducted by the Institute; and
 (3) preparation of a five-year plan for research and for development of
 the Institute.
 (d) Within one year of the date of the enactment of this section, the
 Institute shall submit to the Congress and the Under Secretary of Commerce
 for Oceans and Atmosphere the plan developed pursuant to subsection (c)(3).
SEC. 57. NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET.
 Section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 App. U.S.C. 1744)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) Ready Reserve Force Management-
 `(1) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS- To ensure the readiness of vessels in the Ready
 Reserve Force component of the National Defense Reserve Fleet, the Secretary
 of Transportation shall, at a minimum--
 `(A) maintain all of the vessels in a manner that will enable each vessel
 to be activated within a period specified in plans for mobilization of
 the vessels;
 `(B) activate and conduct sea trials on each vessel at least once every
 twenty-four months;
 `(C) maintain in an enhanced activation status those vessels that are
 scheduled to be activated within 5 days;
 `(D) locate those vessels that are scheduled to be activated within 5 days
 near embarkation ports specified for those vessels; and
 `(E) notwithstanding section 2109 of title 46, United States Code, have
 each vessel inspected by the Secretary of the department in which the Coast
 Guard is operating to determine if the vessel meets the safety standards
 that would apply under part B of subtitle II of that title if the vessel
 were not a public vessel.
 `(2) Vessel managers-
 `(A) ELIGIBILITY FOR CONTRACT- A person, including a shipyard, is eligible
 for a contract for the management of a vessel in the Ready Reserve Force
 if the Secretary determines, at a minimum, that the person has--
 `(i) experience in the operation of commercial-type vessels or public
 vessels owned by the United States Government; and
 `(ii) the management capability necessary to operate, maintain, and activate
 the vessel at a reasonable price.
 `(B) CONTRACT REQUIREMENT- The Secretary of Transportation shall include in
 each contract for the management of a vessel in the Ready Reserve Force a
 requirement that each seaman who performs services on any vessel covered by
 the contract hold the license or merchant mariner's document that would be
 required under chapter 71 or chapter 73 of title 46, United States Code,
 for a seaman performing that service while operating the vessel if the
 vessel were not a public vessel.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.