 
--H.R.6128--
H.R.6128
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the United States Warehouse Act to provide for the use of electronic
cotton warehouse receipts, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. USE OF ELECTRONIC COTTON WAREHOUSE RECEIPTS.
  Section 17(c) of the United States Warehouse Act (7 U.S.C. 259(c))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
  (A) by striking `The Secretary' and inserting `Notwithstanding any other
  provision of Federal or State law, the Secretary';
  (B) by inserting after `licensed under this Act' the following: `or in
  any other warehouse'; and
  (C) by striking `under section 18' and inserting `(i) under section 18 in
  the case of a warehouse licensed under this Act or (ii) under any applicable
  State law in the case of a warehouse not licensed under this Act';
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking `provision of law--' and inserting `provision of Federal
  or State law:';
  (B) in subparagraph (A)--
  (i) by striking `the record' and inserting `The record';
  (ii) by striking `ownership' both places it appears and inserting
  `possessory';
  (iii) by striking `of this Act' and inserting `of this Act or State law'; and
  (iv) by striking `; and' and inserting a period; and
  (C) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following new
  subparagraph:
  `(B) Any person designated as a holder of an electronic warehouse receipt
  authorized under this subsection and subsection (d) shall, for the purpose
  of perfecting the security interest of the person under Federal or State law
  with respect to the cotton covered by the warehouse receipt, be considered
  to be in possession of the warehouse receipt. If more than one security
  interest exist in the cotton reflected on the electronic warehouse receipt,
  the priority of the security interests shall be determined by the applicable
  Federal or State law. This subsection is applicable to electronic cotton
  warehouse receipts and any other security interests covering cotton stored
  in a cotton warehouse, regardless of whether the warehouse is licensed
  under this Act.'; and
  (3) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) by striking `licensed under this Act' and inserting `covered under
  this subsection'; and
  (B) by striking `owner' and inserting `holder'.
SEC. 2. EXPEDITED ACTION ON MARKETING ORDERS.
  Section 8c(1) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 608c(1)),
  reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
  of 1937, is amended by adding at the end the following new sentences:
  `In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall complete all informal
  rulemaking actions necessary to respond to recommendations submitted by
  administrative committees for such orders as expeditiously as possible,
  but not more than 45 days (to the extent practicable) after submission of
  the committee recommendations. The Secretary shall establish time frames
  for each office and agency within the Department of Agriculture to consider
  the committee recommendations.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.