 
--H.R.1047--
H.R.1047
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, to make miscellaneous improvements in
veterans' compensation, pension, life insurance, health-care, and facilities
management programs; and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Veterans' Benefits Programs
 Improvement Act of 1991'.
 (b) REFERENCES TO TITLE 38- Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever
 in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to,
 or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered
 to be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States Code.
 (c) EXECUTION OF AMENDMENTS- References in this Act to a section or other
 provision of title 38, United States Code, refer to that section or other
 provision as in effect before the redesignations made by section 5 of the
 Department of Veterans Affairs Codification Act.
TITLE I--COMPENSATION AND PENSION PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. PENSION BENEFITS FOR INSTITUTIONALIZED VETERANS.
 (a) TECHNICAL CORRECTION- Section 5503(a)(1)(C) is amended by striking out
 `$60' and inserting in lieu thereof `$90'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 as if contained in section 111 of the Veterans' Benefits Amendments of 1989
 (Public Law 101-237; 103 Stat. 2064).
SEC. 102. FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT OF PARENTS' DIC.
 Subsection (a) of section 415 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), dependency and indemnity
 compensation shall be paid monthly to parents of a deceased veteran in the
 amounts prescribed by this section.
 `(2) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, benefits under this
 section may be paid less frequently than monthly if the amount of the
 annual benefit is less than 4 percent of the maximum annual rate payable
 under this section.'.
SEC. 103. PRESERVATION OF RATINGS WHEN CHANGES MADE IN RATING SCHEDULES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 355 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `However, in no event shall such a readjustment in the rating schedule
 cause a veteran's disability rating in effect on the effective date of the
 readjustment to be reduced unless an improvement in the veteran's disability
 is shown to have occurred.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 regard to changes in rating schedules that take effect after the date of
 the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 104. PRESUMPTIVE PERIOD FOR OCCURRENCE OF LEUKEMIA IN VETERANS EXPOSED
TO RADIATION.
 (a) CHANGE IN PRESUMPTIVE PERIOD- Section 312(c)(3) is amended by striking
 out `, except that' and all that follows through `leukemia)'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- No benefit may be paid by reason of the amendment made
 by subsection (a) for any period before the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 105. PRESUMPTION OF SERVICE-CONNECTION FOR CERTAIN RADIATION-EXPOSED
RESERVISTS.
 Section 312(c) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by striking out `during the veteran's service on active duty' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `during active military, naval, or air service'; and
 (B) by striking out `during the period' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `during a period'; and
 (2) in paragraph (4)(A)--
 (A) by inserting `(i)' after `means'; and
 (B) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `, or (ii) an
 individual who, while a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces,
 participated in a radiation-risk activity during a period of active duty
 for training or inactive duty training'.
TITLE II--LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAMS
SEC. 201. NATIONAL SERVICE LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM.
 (a) EXTENSION- Subsections (a) and (b)(1) of section 722 are amended--
 (1) by striking out `one year' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `two years'; and
 (2) by striking out `one-year' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `two-year'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 respect to any person who, on or after September 1, 1991, is found by the
 Secretary of Veterans Affairs to be eligible for insurance under section
 722 of title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 202. PAYMENT OF SERVICE DISABLED VETERANS' INSURANCE IN LUMP SUM.
 (a) PAYMENT IN LUMP SUM- Section 722(b) is amended--
 (1) by striking out paragraph (4) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 717 of this title, insurance
 under this subsection shall be payable to the beneficiary determined under
 paragraph (2) of this subsection in a lump sum.'; and
 (2) by striking out paragraph (5).
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 respect to deaths occurring before, on, or after the date of the enactment of
 this Act. In the case of insurance under section 722(b) of title 38, United
 States Code, payable by reason of a death before the date of the enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall pay the remaining balance of such insurance in
 a lump sum as soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 203. OPEN SEASON FOR USE OF DIVIDENDS TO PURCHASE ADDITIONAL INSURANCE.
 Section 707(c) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `before February 1, 1973' in the second sentence and
 inserting in lieu thereof `during the one-year period beginning September 1,
 1991'; and
 (2) by inserting after the second sentence the following new sentences:
 `After September 1, 1992, the Secretary may, from time to time, provide for
 further one-year periods during which insureds may purchase additional paid
 up insurance from existing dividend credits and deposits. Any such period
 for the purchase of additional paid up insurance may be allowed only if
 the Secretary determines in the case of any such period that it would be
 actuarially and administratively sound to do so.'.
TITLE III--HEALTH-RELATED PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. ELIGIBILITY FOR OUTPATIENT DENTAL CARE.
 Paragraph (1) of section 612(b) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `or' at the end of subparagraph (F);
 (2) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (G) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `; or'; and
 (3) by adding after subparagraph (G) the following new subparagraph:
 `(H) the treatment of which is medically necessary (i) in preparation
 for hospital admission, or (ii) for a veteran otherwise receiving care or
 services under this chapter.'.
SEC. 302. REQUIREMENT FOR SECOND OPINION FOR FEE-BASIS OUTPATIENT DENTAL
CARE REIMBURSEMENT.
 Section 612(b)(3) is amended by striking out `$500' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `$1,000'.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR ALCOHOL OR DRUG ABUSE TREATMENT.
 Section 620A(e) is amended by striking out `September 30, 1991' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `December 31, 1994'.
SEC. 304. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE CONTRACTS TO THE VETERANS MEMORIAL
MEDICAL CENTER, REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES.
 (a) EXTENSION- Section 632(a) is amended by striking out `1990' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `1992'.
 (b) RATIFICATION- Any actions by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in
 carrying out the provisions of section 632 of title 38, United States Code,
 by contract or otherwise, during the period beginning on October 1, 1990,
 and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act are hereby ratified.
SEC. 305. EDUCATIONAL AND LICENSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR SOCIAL WORKERS.
 (a) SOCIAL WORKER LICENSURE REQUIREMENT- Section 7402(b) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new paragraph (9):
 `(9) SOCIAL WORKER- To be eligible to be appointed to a social worker
 position, a person must hold a master's degree in social work from a college
 or university approved by the Secretary and satisfy the social worker
 licensure, certification, or registration requirements, if any, of the State
 in which the social worker is to be employed, except that the Secretary
 may waive the licensure, certification, or registration requirement of this
 paragraph for an individual social worker for a reasonable period, not to
 exceed 3 years, in order for the social worker to take any actions necessary
 to satisfy the licensure, certification, or registration requirements of
 such State.'.
 (b) EXEMPTION- The amendment made by subsection (a) does not apply to any
 person employed as a social worker by the Department of Veterans Affairs
 on or before the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV--REAL PROPERTY AND FACILITIES
SEC. 401. ENHANCED-USE LEASES AND SPECIAL DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER 81- Chapter 81 is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subchapter:
`SUBCHAPTER V--ENHANCED-USE LEASES OF REAL PROPERTY
`Sec. 8161. Definitions
 `For the purposes of this subchapter:
 `(1) The term `enhanced-use lease' means a written lease entered into by
 the Secretary under this subchapter.
 `(2) The term `congressional veterans' affairs committees' means
 the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of
 Representatives.
`Sec. 8162. Enhanced-use leases
 `(a)(1) The Secretary may in accordance with this subchapter enter into leases
 with respect to real property that is under the jurisdiction or control of
 the Secretary. Any such lease under this subchapter may be referred to as an
 `enhanced-use lease'. The Secretary may dispose of any such property that
 is leased to another party under this subchapter in accordance with section
 8164 of this title. The Secretary may exercise the authority provided by this
 subchapter notwithstanding section 8122 of this title, section 321 of the
 Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b), sections 202 and 203 of the Federal
 Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 483, 484), or
 any other provision of law (other than Federal laws relating to environmental
 and historic preservation) inconsistent with this section. The applicability
 of this subchapter to section 421(b) of the Veterans' Benefits and Services
 Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-322; 102 Stat. 553) is covered by subsection (c).
 `(2) The Secretary may enter into an enhanced-use lease only if the Secretary
 determines that--
 `(A) at least part of the use of the property under the lease will be to
 provide appropriate space for an activity contributing to the mission of
 the Department;
 `(B) the lease will not be inconsistent with and will not adversely affect
 the mission of the Department; and
 `(C) the lease will enhance the use of the property.
 `(3) The provisions of the Act of March 3, 1931 (40 U.S.C. 276a et seq.),
 shall not, by reason of this section, become inapplicable to property that
 is leased to another party under an enhanced-use lease.
 `(4) A property that is leased to another party under an enhanced-use
 lease may not be considered to be unutilized or underutilized for purposes
 of section 501 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42
 U.S.C. 11411).
 `(b)(1) If the Secretary has determined that a property should be leased to
 another party through an enhanced-use lease, the Secretary shall select the
 party with whom the lease will be entered into using selection procedures
 determined by the Secretary that ensure the integrity of the selection
 process.
 `(2) The term of an enhanced-use lease may not exceed--
 `(A) 35 years, in the case of a lease involving the construction of a
 new building or the substantial rehabilitation of an existing building,
 as determined by the Secretary; or
 `(B) 20 years, in the case of a lease not described in subparagraph (A).
 `(3)(A) Each enhanced-use lease shall be for fair consideration, as determined
 by the Secretary. Consideration under such a lease may be provided in whole
 or in part through consideration in-kind.
 `(B) Consideration in-kind may include provision of goods or services of
 benefit to the Department, including construction, repair, remodeling,
 or other physical improvements of Department facilities, maintenance
 of Department facilities, or the provision of office, storage, or other
 usable space.
 `(4) Any payment by the Secretary for the use of space or services by the
 Department on property that has been leased under this subchapter may only
 be made from funds appropriated to the Department for the activity that uses
 the space or services. No other such payment may be made by the Secretary
 to a lessee under an enhanced-use lease unless the authority to make the
 payment is provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
 `(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the entering into an enhanced-use
 lease covering any land or improvement described in section 421(b)(2)
 of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-322;
 102 Stat. 553) shall be considered to be prohibited by that section unless
 specifically authorized by law.
 `(2) The entering into an enhanced-use lease by the Secretary covering
 any land or improvement described in such section 421(b)(2) shall not be
 considered to be prohibited under that section if under the lease--
 `(A) the designated property is to be used only for child-care services;
 `(B) those services are to be provided only for the benefit of--
 `(i) employees of the Department;
 `(ii) individuals employed on the premises of such property; and
 `(iii) employees of a health-personnel educational institution that is
 affiliated with a Department facility;
 `(C) over one-half of the employees benefited by the child-care services
 provided are required to be employees of the Department; and
 `(D) over one-half of the children to whom child-care services are provided
 are required to be children of employees of the Department.
`Sec. 8163. Designation of property to be leased
 `(a) If the Secretary proposes to designate a property to be leased under
 an enhanced-use lease, the Secretary shall conduct a public hearing before
 making the designation. The hearing shall be conducted in the community in
 which the property is located. At the hearing, the Secretary shall receive
 the views of veterans service organizations and other interested parties
 regarding the proposed lease of the property and the possible effects of
 the uses to be made of the property under a lease of the general character
 then contemplated. The possible effects to be addressed at the hearing
 shall include effects on--
 `(1) local commerce and other aspects of the local community;
 `(2) programs administered by the Department; and
 `(3) services to veterans in the community.
 `(b) Before conducting such a hearing, the Secretary shall provide reasonable
 notice of the proposed designation and of the hearing. The notice shall
 include--
 `(1) the time and place of the hearing;
 `(2) identification of the property proposed to be leased;
 `(3) a description of the proposed uses of the property under the lease;
 `(4) a description of how the uses to be made of the property under a lease
 of the general character then contemplated--
 `(A) would contribute in a cost-effective manner to the mission of the
 Department;
 `(B) would not be inconsistent with the mission of the Department; and
 `(C) would not adversely affect the mission of the Department; and
 `(5) a description of how those uses would affect services to veterans.
 `(c)(1) If after a hearing under subsection (a) the Secretary intends to
 designate the property involved, the Secretary shall notify the congressional
 veterans' affairs committees of the Secretary's intention to so designate the
 property and shall publish a notice of such intention in the Federal Register.
 `(2) The Secretary may not enter into an enhanced-use lease until the
 end of a 60-day period of continuous session of Congress following the
 date of the submission of notice under paragraph (1). For purposes of the
 preceding sentence, continuity of a session of Congress is broken only by
 an adjournment sine die, and there shall be excluded from the computation
 of such 60-day period any day during which either House of Congress is not
 in session during an adjournment of more than three days to a day certain.
 `(3) Each notice under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
 `(A) An identification of the property involved.
 `(B) An explanation of the background of, rationale for, and economic
 factors in support of, the proposed lease.
 `(C) A summary of the views expressed by interested parties at the public
 hearing conducted in connection with the proposed designation, together
 with a summary of the Secretary's evaluation of those views.
 `(D) A general description of the proposed lease.
 `(E) A description of how the proposed lease--
 `(i) would contribute in a cost-effective manner to the mission of the
 Department;
 `(ii) would not be inconsistent with the mission of the Department; and
 `(iii) would not adversely affect the mission of the Department.
 `(F) A description of how the proposed lease would affect services to
 veterans.
 `(4) Not less than 30 days before entering into an enhanced-use lease, the
 Secretary shall submit to the congressional veterans' affairs committees
 a report on the proposed lease. The report shall include--
 `(A) updated information with respect to the matters described in paragraph
 (3);
 `(B) a summary of a cost-benefit analysis of the proposed lease;
 `(C) a description of the provisions of the proposed lease; and
 `(D) a notice of designation with respect to the property.
`Sec. 8164. Authority for disposition of leased property
 `(a) If, during the term of an enhanced-use lease or within 30 days after
 the end of the term of the lease, the Secretary determines that the leased
 property is no longer needed by the Department, the Secretary may initiate
 action for the transfer to the lessee of all right, title, and interest of
 the United States in the property by requesting the Administrator of General
 Services to dispose of the property pursuant to subsection (b). A disposition
 of property may not be made under this section unless the Secretary determines
 that the disposition under this section rather than under section 8122 of
 this title is in the best interests of the Department. The Administrator,
 upon request of the Secretary, shall take appropriate action under this
 section to dispose of property of the Department that is or has been subject
 to an enhanced-use lease.
 `(b) A disposition under this section may be made for such consideration as
 the Secretary and the Administrator of General Services jointly determine
 is in the best interest of the United States and upon such other terms and
 conditions as the Secretary and the Administrator consider appropriate.
 `(c) Not less than 90 days before a disposition of property is made under
 this section, the Secretary shall notify the congressional veterans' affairs
 committees of the Secretary's intent to dispose of the property and shall
 publish notice of the proposed disposition in the Federal Register. The
 notice shall describe the background of, rationale for, and economic factors
 in support of, the proposed disposition (including a cost-benefit analysis
 summary) and the method, terms, and conditions of the proposed disposition.
`Sec. 8165. Use of proceeds
 `(a)(1) Of the funds received by the Department under an enhanced-use lease
 and remaining after any deduction from such funds under subsection (b), 75
 percent shall be deposited in the nursing home revolving fund established
 under section 8116 of this title and 25 percent shall be credited to the
 Medical Care Account of the Department for the use of the Department facility
 at which the property is located.
 `(2) Funds received by the Department from a disposal of leased property
 under section 8164 of this title and remaining after any deduction from
 such funds under the laws referred to in subsection (c) shall be deposited
 in the nursing home revolving fund.
 `(b) An amount sufficient to pay for any expenses incurred by the Secretary
 in any fiscal year in connection with an enhanced-use lease shall be deducted
 from the proceeds of the lease for that fiscal year and may be used by the
 Secretary to reimburse the account from which the funds were used to pay
 such expenses.
 `(c) Subsection (a) does not affect the applicability of section 204 of the
 Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 485)
 or the Act of June 8, 1896 (40 U.S.C. 485a), with respect to reimbursement
 of the Administrator of General Services for expenses arising from any
 disposal of property under section 8164 of this title.
`Sec. 8166. Construction standards
 `(a) Unless the Secretary provides otherwise, the construction, alteration,
 repair, remodeling, or improvement of the property that is the subject of
 the lease shall be carried out so as to comply with all standards applicable
 to construction of Federal buildings. Any such construction, alteration,
 repair, remodeling, or improvement shall not be subject to any State or
 local law relating to building codes, permits, or inspections unless the
 Secretary provides otherwise.
 `(b) Unless the Secretary has provided that Federal construction standards
 are not applicable to a property, the Secretary shall conduct periodic
 inspections of any such construction, alteration, repair, remodeling,
 or improvement for the purpose of ensuring that the standards are met.
`Sec. 8167. Exemption from State and local taxes
 `The interest of the United States in any property subject to an enhanced-use
 lease and any use by the United States of such property during such lease
 shall not be subject, directly or indirectly, to any State or local law
 relative to taxation, fees, assessments, or special assessments, except
 sales taxes charged in connection with any construction, alteration, repair,
 remodeling, or improvement project carried out under the lease.
`Sec. 8168. Limitation on number of agreements
 `(a) Not more than 20 enhanced-use leases may be entered into under this
 subchapter, and not more than 10 such leases may be entered into during
 any fiscal year.
 `(b) An enhanced-use lease under which the primary use made of the leased
 premises is the provision of child-care services for employees of the
 Department shall not be counted for the purposes of subsection (a).
` 8169. Expiration
 `The authority of the Secretary to enter into enhanced-use leases under
 this subchapter expires on December 31, 1994.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) The heading for chapter 81 is amended by adding
 at the end the following: `; LEASES OF REAL PROPERTY'.
 (2) The items relating to chapter 81 in the tables of chapters before part
 I and at the beginning of part VI are amended to read as follows:
8101'.
 (3) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 81 is amended by
 adding at the end the following:
`subchapter v--enhanced-use leases of real property
`8161. Definitions.
`8162. Enhanced-use leases.
`8163. Designation of property to be leased.
`8164. Authority for disposition of leased property.
`8165. Use of proceeds.
`8166. Construction standards.
`8167. Exemption from State and local taxes.
`8168. Limitation on number of agreements.
`8169. Expiration.'.
SEC. 402. ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
` 115. Acquisition of real property
 `For the purposes of sections 230 and 1006 of this title and subchapter I
 of chapter 81 of this title, the Secretary may acquire and use real property--
 `(1) before title to the property is approved under section 355 of the
 Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 255); and
 `(2) even though the property will be held in other than a fee simple
 interest in a case in which the Secretary determines that the interest to
 be acquired is sufficient for the purposes of the intended use.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of such
 chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`115. Acquisition of real property.'.
SEC. 403. PERSHING HALL, PARIS, FRANCE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Pershing Hall, an existing memorial in Paris, France, owned by
 the United States, together with the personal property of such memorial, is
 hereby placed under the jurisdiction, custody, and control of the Department
 of Veterans Affairs so that the memorial to the commander-in-chief, officers,
 men, and auxiliary services of the American Expeditionary Forces in France
 during World War I may be continued in an appropriate manner and financial
 support be provided therefor.
 (b) ADMINISTRATION- (1)(A) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall administer,
 operate, develop, and improve Pershing Hall and its site in such manner as
 the Secretary determines is in the best interests of the United States,
 which may include use of Pershing Hall to meet the needs of veterans. To
 meet such needs, the Secretary may establish and operate a regional or
 other office to disseminate information, respond to inquiries, and otherwise
 assist veterans and their families in obtaining veterans' benefits.
 (B) To carry out the purposes of this section, the Secretary may enter
 into agreements authorized by subsection (c) to fund the operation of the
 memorial and projects authorized by subsection (d)(6).
 (2)(A) The Secretary shall, after consultation with the American Battle
 Monuments Commission, provide for a portion of Pershing Hall to be
 specifically dedicated, with appropriate exhibitions and monuments, to the
 memory of the commander-in-chief, officers, men, and auxiliary services of
 the American Expeditionary Forces in France during World War I.
 (B) The establishment and continuing supervision of the memorial that is
 dedicated pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be carried out by the American
 Battle Monuments Commission.
 (3) To the extent that funds are available in the Pershing Hall Revolving
 Fund established by subsection (d), the Secretary may incur such expenses with
 respect to Pershing Hall as the Secretary determines necessary or appropriate.
 (4) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may provide the allowances and benefits
 described in section 235 of title 38, United States Code, to personnel of
 the Department of Veterans Affairs who are United States citizens and are
 assigned by the Secretary to Pershing Hall.
 (c) LEASES- (1) The Secretary may enter into agreements as the Secretary
 determines necessary or appropriate for the operation, development,
 and improvement of Pershing Hall and its site, including the leasing of
 portions of the Hall for terms not to exceed 35 years in areas that are
 newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated and for not to exceed 20
 years in other areas of the Hall.
 (2) Leases entered into by the Secretary under this subsection shall be for
 consideration in the form of cash or in-kind, or a combination of the two,
 as determined by the Secretary, which shall include the value of space leased
 back to the Secretary by the lessee, net of rent paid by the Secretary,
 and the present value of the residual interest of the Secretary at the end
 of the lease term.
 (d) FUND- (1) There is hereby established the Pershing Hall Revolving Fund
 to be administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
 (2) There shall be transferred to the Pershing Hall Revolving Fund, at such
 time or times as the Secretary may determine without limitation as to year,
 amounts as determined by the Secretary, not to exceed $1,000,000 in total,
 from funds appropriated to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the
 construction of major projects. The account from which any such amount is
 transferred shall be reimbursed promptly from other funds as they become
 part of the Pershing Hall Revolving Fund.
 (3) The Pershing Hall Memorial Fund, established in the Treasury of the United
 States pursuant to section 2 of the Act of June 28, 1935 (Public Law 74-171;
 49 Stat. 426), is hereby abolished and the corpus of the fund, including
 accrued interest, is transferred to the Pershing Hall Revolving Fund.
 (4) Funds received by the Secretary from operation of Pershing Hall or
 from any lease or other agreement with respect to Pershing Hall shall be
 deposited in the Pershing Hall Revolving Fund.
 (5) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest any portion of the Revolving
 Fund that, as determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, is not
 required to meet current expenses of the Fund. Each investment shall be made
 in an interest bearing obligation of the United States or an obligation
 guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States that, as
 determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, has a maturity suitable
 for the Revolving Fund. The Secretary of the Treasury shall credit to the
 Revolving Fund the interest on, and the proceeds from the sale or redemption
 of, such obligations.
 (6)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Secretary of Veterans
 Affairs may expend not more than $100,000 from the Fund in any fiscal year
 upon projects, activities, and facilities determined by the Secretary to
 be in keeping with the mission of the Department.
 (B) An expenditure under subparagraph (A) may be made only from funds
 that will remain in the Fund in any fiscal year after payment of expenses
 incurred with respect to Pershing Hall for such fiscal year and only after
 the reimbursement of all amounts transferred to the Fund under subsection
 (d)(2) has been completed.
 (C) An expenditure authorized by subparagraph (A) shall be reported by the
 Secretary to the Congress no later than November 1 of each year for the
 fiscal year ending on the previous September 30.
 (e) WAIVER- The Secretary may carry out the provisions of this section without
 regard to section 8122 of title 38, United States Code, section 321 of the
 Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b; 47 Stat. 412), sections 202 and 203
 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act (40 U.S.C. 483 and
 484), or any other provision of law inconsistent with this section.
TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 501. DURATION OF COMPENSATED WORK THERAPY PROGRAM.
 Section 7(a) of Public Law 102-54 (105 Stat. 269) is amended by striking
 out `During fiscal years 1992 through 1994' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `During fiscal years 1991 through 1994'.
SEC. 502. SAVINGS PROVISION FOR ELIMINATION OF BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN REMARRIED
SPOUSES.
 The amendments made by section 8004 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
 of 1990 (Public Law 101-508) shall not apply with respect to any individual
 who on October 31, 1990, was a surviving spouse or child within the meaning
 of title 38, United States Code, unless after that date that individual
 (1) marries, or (2) in the case of a surviving spouse, begins to live with
 another person while holding himself or herself out openly to the public
 as that person's spouse.
SEC. 503. AGENT ORANGE REVIEW.
 (a) LIABILITY INSURANCE- Section 3 of the Agent Orange Act of 1991 (Public
 Law 102-4; 38 U.S.C. 316 note) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(k) LIABILITY INSURANCE- (1) The Secretary may provide liability insurance
 for the National Academy of Sciences or any other contract scientific
 organization to cover any claim for money damages for injury, loss of
 property, personal injury, or death caused by any negligent or wrongful act
 or omission of any person referred to in paragraph (2) in carrying out any of
 the following responsibilities of the Academy or such other organization,
 as the case may be, under an agreement entered into with the Secretary
 pursuant to this section:
 `(A) The review, summarization, and assessment of scientific evidence
 referred to in subsection (c).
 `(B) The making of any determination, on the basis of such review and
 assessment, regarding the matters set out in clauses (A) through (C) of
 subsection (d)(1), and the preparation of the discussion referred to in
 subsection (d)(2).
 `(C) The making of any recommendation for additional scientific study under
 subsection (e).
 `(D) The conduct of any subsequent review referred to in subsection (f) and
 the making of any determination or estimate referred to in such subsection.
 `(E) The preparation of the reports referred to in subsection (g).
 `(2) A person referred to in paragraph (1) is--
 `(A) an employee of the National Academy of Sciences or other contract
 scientific organization referred to in paragraph (1); or
 `(B) any individual appointed by the President of the Academy or the head
 of such other contract scientific organization, as the case may be, to
 carry out any of the responsibilities referred to in such paragraph.
 `(3) The cost of the liability insurance referred to in paragraph (1)
 shall be made from funds available to carry out this section.
 `(4) The Secretary shall reimburse the Academy or person referred to
 in paragraph (2) for the cost of any judgments (if any) and reasonable
 attorney's fees and incidental expenses, not compensated by the liability
 insurance referred to in paragraph (1) or by any other insurance maintained
 by the Academy, incurred by the Academy or person referred to in paragraph
 (2), in connection with any legal or administrative proceedings arising
 out of or in connection with the work to be performed under the agreement
 referred to in paragraph (1). Reimbursement of the cost of such judgments,
 attorney's fees, and incidental expenses shall be paid from funds appropriated
 for such reimbursement or appropriated to carry out this section, but in no
 event shall any such reimbursement be made from funds authorized pursuant
 to section 1304 of title 31, United States Code.'.
 (b) DELAY IN CERTAIN PROVISIONS- (1) Section 3(b) of such Act is amended
 by striking out `two months after the date of the enactment of this Act'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `two months after the date of the enactment
 of the Veterans' Benefits Programs Improvement Act of 1991'.
 (2) Section 10(e) of such Act is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `at the end of the six-month period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `at the end of the two-month period beginning on the date of the
 enactment of the Veterans' Benefits Programs Improvement Act of 1991'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking out `six-month'.
SEC. 504. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT GIFTS, BEQUESTS, AND DEVISES.
 Section 8301 is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `The Secretary may also accept, for use in carrying out all laws administered
 by the Secretary, gifts, devises, and bequests which will enhance the
 Secretary's ability to provide services or benefits.'.
SEC. 505. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO COLLECTION OF CERTAIN INDEBTEDNESS
TO THE UNITED STATES.
 (a)DEPOSIT OF COAST GUARD AMOUNTS- Section 5301(c)(4) is amended by inserting
 before the period at the end the following: `or to the Retired Pay Account
 of the Coast Guard, as appropriate'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with
 respect to funds collected after September 30, 1991.
SEC. 506. MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TITLE 38- Title 38, United States Code, is amended as follows:
 (1) Section 618(b)(2) is amended by striking out `arangements' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `arrangements'.
 (2) Section 716(b) is amended by striking out `upaid' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `unpaid'.
 (b) PUBLIC LAW 101-237- Effective as of December 18, 1989, section 423(b)
 of Public Law 101-237 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by striking out `1790(b)(3)(B)(i)(III),' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `1790(b)(3)(B)(iii), as redesignated by subsection
 (a)(9)(C)(ii),'; and
 (2) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking out `1418(a)(3)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `1418(a)'.
 (c) PUBLIC LAW 102-16- Effective as of March 22, 1991, section 9(d) of Public
 Law 102-16 is amended by striking out `Act' the first place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.