 
--H.R.3598--
H.R.3598
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend title 49, United States Code, to provide for verification of weights,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Intermodal Safe Container Transportation
  Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. CERTIFICATION OF WEIGHTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subchapter I of chapter 5 of title 49, United States Code,
  is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 508. Certification of weights and description
  `(a) NOTIFICATION AND CERTIFICATION-
  `(1) PRIOR NOTIFICATION- Before the time any person tenders to an initial
  carrier any loaded container or trailer for intermodal transportation having
  a projected gross cargo weight (inclusive of packing material and pallets)
  of more than 10,000 pounds, such person shall give such carrier written
  notification of such gross cargo weight and a reasonable description of the
  contents of the container or trailer. The notification may be transmitted
  electronically.
  `(2) CERTIFICATION- At or before the time of tendering to an initial
  carrier for intermodal transportation of a container or trailer to which
  paragraph (1) applies or of a loaded container or trailer having an actual
  gross cargo weight (inclusive of packing material and pallets) of more than
  10,000 pounds, the person tendering the container or trailer shall certify
  to the carrier in writing the actual gross cargo weight and a reasonable
  description of the contents of the container or trailer.
  `(3) VIOLATION- After the date on which the Secretary of Transportation
  issues final regulations to enforce this section, it shall be a violation
  of this section for any person tendering a loaded container or trailer to
  fail to comply with paragraph (1) or (2) or to provide false or erroneous
  information in a written certification required by paragraph (2).
  `(4) LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY- For purposes of this section, a carrier,
  agent of a carrier, broker, customs broker, freight forwarder, warehouseman,
  and terminal operator shall not be considered to be a person tendering
  a loaded container or trailer to an initial carrier, unless the carrier,
  agent, broker, customs broker, freight forwarder, warehouseman, or terminal
  operator assumes legal responsibility for the loading of property into
  the container or trailer.
  `(b) FORWARDING INFORMATION TO SUBSEQUENT CARRIERS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- It shall be a violation of this section for a carrier,
  agent of a carrier, broker, customs broker, freight forwarder, warehouseman,
  or terminal operator to fail to forward the certification of actual gross
  cargo weight and reasonable description of the contents of a loaded
  container or trailer provided under subsection (a)(2) to a subsequent
  carrier transporting the container or trailer in intermodal transportation.
  `(2) LIMITATION ON INTERPRETATION OF CARRIER FORWARDING INFORMATION-
  The forwarding of information under paragraph (1) by a carrier, agent
  of a carrier, broker, customs broker, freight forwarder, warehouseman,
  or terminal operator shall not constitute, or in any way be construed as,
  a verification or affirmation by the carrier, agent, broker, customs broker,
  freight forwarder, warehouseman, or terminal operator of the accuracy or
  completeness of such information.
  `(c) UNLAWFUL COERCION- It shall be unlawful--
  `(1) for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a person participating
  in intermodal transportation to transport a loaded container or trailer
  having an actual gross cargo weight of more than 10,000 pounds (inclusive
  of packing materials and pallets) before the certification required by
  subsection (a)(2) has been provided; and
  `(2) for any person, knowing that the weight of the loaded container
  or trailer or the weight of the tractor-trailer combination carrying
  the container or trailer in intermodal transportation is in excess of
  that permitted by applicable State law, to coerce or attempt to coerce
  any carrier--
  `(A) to transport the container or trailer; or
  `(B) to operate the tractor-trailer combination;
in violation of such law.
  `(d) DUTY OF MOTOR CARRIER- It shall be unlawful for a motor carrier (as such
  term is defined in section 10102 of this title) to provide transportation
  of a loaded container or trailer to which subsection (a)(2) applies prior
  to receiving the certification required by subsection (a)(2).
  `(e) LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY TO CARRIERS- The provisions of subsections
  (a) and (c) shall not apply to a carrier when the carrier is transferring
  a loaded container or trailer to other carriers in the course of intermodal
  transportation, unless the carrier is also the person tendering the loaded
  container or trailer to the initial carrier.
  `(f) STATE ENFORCEMENT- A State is authorized to enact legislation to
  enable the State or a political subdivision of the State--
  `(1) to assess fines and penalties for violations of State highway weight
  laws and regulations by a tractor-trailer combination carrying a loaded
  container or trailer for which a certification is required under subsection
  (a)(2) against the person tendering to the initial carrier the loaded
  container or trailer; and
  `(2) to impound the container or trailer until such fines and penalties
  have been paid by the owners or beneficial owners of the contents of
  the container or trailer or the person tendering the loaded container or
  trailer to the initial carrier;
in any case in which the fines or penalties result from providing false or
erroneous information in a written certification in violation of subsection
(a)(3).
  `(g) LIENS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If a carrier or person involved in the intermodal
  transportation of a loaded container or trailer for which a certification
  is required under subsection (a)(2) must under State law post bond or pay
  any fines, penalties, costs, expenses, or interest resulting from providing
  false or erroneous information in a written certification with respect to
  the container or trailer or the contents thereof to the initial carrier in
  violation of subsection (a)(3), the carrier or other person shall have a
  lien against such contents equivalent to the amount of such bond or fines,
  penalties, costs, expenses, or interest incurred by the carrier or other
  person until the carrier or other person has received a payment of such
  amount from the owner or beneficial owner of the contents or from the
  person responsible for making the certification.
  `(2) LIMITATIONS-
  `(A) LIMITATION ON DISPOSITION OF CONTENTS- A lien under this subsection
  shall not authorize a carrier or other person to sell or otherwise
  dispose of the contents of a loaded container or trailer until the person
  who tendered the container or trailer to the initial carrier is given a
  reasonable opportunity to determine responsibility for the bond or fines,
  penalties, costs, expenses, or interest.
  `(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN OWNERS AND BENEFICIAL OWNERS- For purposes
  of this subsection, an owner or beneficial owner of the contents of a
  container or trailer or a person tendering a container or trailer to the
  initial carrier shall not be treated as a carrier or person involved in
  the intermodal transportation of the container or trailer.
  `(C) LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY- The provisions of this subsection and
  subsection (f)(2) shall not apply to a container or trailer the contents
  of which are perishable agricultural commodities (as such term is defined
  in the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930).
  `(h) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- This section  shall not be
  construed as creating any obligation or responsibility for the person
  tendering the loaded container or trailer to the initial carrier to ensure
  that the initial carrier or any other carrier involved in the intermodal
  transportation will comply with any State statutes or regulations prescribing
  weight limitations for highway transportation, beyond the requirements
  set forth in this section.'.
  (b) ENFORCEMENT- Section 521(b)(2)(A) of such title is amended by inserting
  `or which is a violation of section 508 of this title' after `Act of 1984'.
  (c) DEFINITIONS- Section 501(a) of such title is amended by adding at the
  end the following new paragraphs:
  `(4) `beneficial owner' means a person who does not have title to property
  but has ownership rights in the property. For purposes of this paragraph,
  a trustee of property in transit from an overseas point of origin who is
  domiciled in or is doing business in the United States shall be treated as a
  beneficial owner of such property. A carrier, agent of a carrier, broker,
  customs broker, freight forwarder, warehouseman, or terminal operator
  providing or arranging for any portion of intermodal transportation of
  property shall in no case be a beneficial owner of such property, for
  purposes of this paragraph, solely by reason of providing or arranging
  for such transportation.
  `(5) `carrier' means--
  `(A) a motor carrier, water carrier, and rail carrier (as such terms are
  defined in section 10102 of this title), and
  `(B) an ocean common carrier (as such term is defined in section 3 of the
  Shipping Act of 1984 (46 U.S.C. App. 1702)),
providing transportation of property in commerce.
  `(6) `container' has the meaning given the term `freight container' by the
  International Standards Organization in Series 1, Freight Containers, 3rd
  Edition (reference number IS0668-1979(E)), including successive revisions
  thereto, and similar containers that are used in providing transportation
  in interstate commerce.
  `(7) `initial carrier' means the first carrier transporting a loaded
  container or trailer in intermodal transportation.
  `(8) `intermodal transportation' means successive carriage of a loaded
  container or trailer from an origin point to a destination point by more
  than one mode of transportation in interstate or foreign commerce. Such
  term shall include carriage by more than one mode of transportation in
  interstate or foreign commerce both under a single bill of lading and
  under separate bills of lading.
  `(9) `trailer' means a nonpower, cargo carrying, trailing unit which is
  designed for use in combination with a truck tractor.'.
  (d) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall initiate a proceeding to issue
  regulations to enforce section 508 of title 49, United States Code, within
  180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall issue final
  regulations within 270 days after such date of enactment. The Secretary
  may establish, by regulation, exemptions to such regulations that are in
  the public interest and consistent with the purposes of this Act.
  (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO CHAPTER ANALYSIS- The analysis for subchapter
  I of chapter 105 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end the following new item:
`508. Certification of weights and description.'.
SEC. 3. DATA COLLECTION NEEDS.
  (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Transportation shall conduct a study for the
  purpose of--
  (1) assessing--
  (A) existing data and data collection needs with respect to the movement
  in intermodal transportation of loaded containers and trailers (including
  containers and trailers containing perishable agricultural commodities)
  in violation of section 508 of title 49, United States Code, and State
  highway motor vehicle weight laws;
  (B) the legal and practical impediments to the collection of such data; and
  (C) how these intermodal movements compare with other overweight domestic
  highway freight movements; and
  (2) providing legislative and other recommendations for improving the
  collection of such data.
  (b) CONSULTATION- In carrying out the study under this section, the
  Secretary of Transportation shall consult with the States and shippers,
  carriers, port authorities, and other persons involved in the intermodal
  transportation of loaded containers and trailers.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to the Committee on
  Public Works and Transportation, the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
  and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of
  Representatives and to the appropriate committees of the Senate a report
  on the results of the study conducted under this section, together with
  the recommendations referred to in subsection (a).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.