 
--H.R.4016--
H.R.4016
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability
Act of 1980 to require the Federal Government, before termination of Federal
activities on any real property owned by the Government, to identify real
property where no hazardous substance was stored, released, or disposed of.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Community Environmental Response Facilitation
  Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds the following:
  (1) The closure of certain Federal facilities is having adverse effects
  on the economies of local communities by eliminating jobs associated with
  such facilities, and delay in remediation of environmental contamination
  of real property at such facilities is preventing transfer and private
  development of such property.
  (2) Each department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States,
  in cooperation with local communities, should expeditiously identify real
  property that offers the greatest opportunity for reuse and redevelopment
  on each facility under the jurisdiction of the department, agency, or
  instrumentality where operations are terminating.
  (3) Remedial actions, including remedial investigations and feasibility
  studies, and corrective actions at such Federal facilities should be
  expedited in a manner to facilitate environmental protection and the sale
  or transfer of such excess real property for the purpose of mitigating
  adverse economic effects on the surrounding community.
  (4) Each department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States,
  in accordance with applicable law, should make available without delay
  such excess real property.
  (5) In the case of any real property owned by the United States and
  transferred to another person, the United States Government should remain
  responsible for conducting any remedial action or corrective action necessary
  to protect human health and the environment with respect to any hazardous
  substance or petroleum product or its derivatives, including aviation
  fuel and motor oil, that was present on such real property at the time
  of transfer.
SEC. 3. REQUIREMENT FOR IDENTIFICATION OF LAND ON WHICH NO HAZARDOUS
SUBSTANCES OR PETROLEUM PRODUCTS OR THEIR DERIVATIVES WERE STORED, RELEASED,
OR DISPOSED OF.
  Section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) IDENTIFICATION OF UNCONTAMINATED PROPERTY- (A) In the case of real
  property to which this paragraph applies (as set forth in subparagraph
  (E)),  the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality of the
  United States with jurisdiction over the property shall identify the real
  property on which no hazardous substances and no petroleum products or their
  derivatives were stored for one year or more, known to have been released,
  or disposed of. Such identification shall be based on an investigation of
  the real property to determine or discover the obviousness of the presence
  or likely presence of a release or threatened release of any hazardous
  substance or any petroleum product or its derivatives, including aviation
  fuel and motor oil, on the real property.  The identification shall consist,
  at a minimum, of a review of each of the following sources of information
  concerning the current and previous uses of the real property:
  `(i) A detailed search of Federal Government records pertaining to the
  property.
  `(ii) Recorded chain of title documents regarding the real property.
  `(iii) Aerial photographs that may reflect prior uses of the real property
  and that are reasonably obtainable through State or local government
  agencies.
  `(iv) A visual inspection of the real property and any buildings, structures,
  equipment, pipe, pipeline, or other improvements on the real property, and
  a visual inspection of properties immediately adjacent to the real property.
  `(v) A physical inspection of property adjacent to the real property,
  to the extent permitted by owners or operators of such property.
  `(vi) Reasonably obtainable Federal, State, and local government records
  of each adjacent facility where there has been a release of any hazardous
  substance or any petroleum product or its derivatives, including aviation
  fuel and motor oil, and which is likely to cause or contribute to a release
  or threatened release of any hazardous substance or any petroleum product or
  its derivatives, including aviation fuel and motor oil, on the real property.
  `(vii) Interviews with current or former employees involved in operations
  on the real property.
Such identification shall also be based on sampling, if appropriate under
the circumstances. The results of the identification shall be provided
immediately to the Administrator and State and local government officials
and made available to the public.
  `(B) The identification required under subparagraph (A) is not complete
  until concurrence in the results of the identification is obtained, in the
  case of real property that is part of a facility on the National Priorities
  List, from the Administrator, or, in the case of real property that is not
  part of a facility on the National Priorities List, from the appropriate
  State official. In the case of a concurrence which is required from a State
  official, the concurrence is deemed to be obtained if, within 90 days after
  receiving a request for the concurrence, the State official has not acted
  (by either concurring or declining to concur) on the request for concurrence.
  `(C)(i) Except as provided in clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv), the
  identification and concurrence required under subparagraphs (A) and (B),
  respectively, shall be made at least 6 months before the termination of
  operations on the real property.
  `(ii) In the case of real property described in subparagraph (E)(i)(II)
  on which operations have been closed or realigned or scheduled for closure
  or realignment pursuant to a base closure law described in subparagraph
  (E)(ii)(I) or (E)(ii)(II) by the date of the enactment of the Community
  Environmental Response Facilitation Act, the identification and concurrence
  required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, shall be made not
  later than 18 months after such date of enactment.
  `(iii) In the case of real property described in subparagraph (E)(i)(II)
  on which operations are closed or realigned or become scheduled for closure
  or realignment pursuant to the base closure law described in subparagraph
  (E)(ii)(II) after the date of the enactment of the Community Environmental
  Response Facilitation Act, the identification and concurrence required
  under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, shall be made not later
  than 18 months after the date by which a joint resolution disapproving
  the closure or realignment of the real property under section 2904(b)
  of such base closure law must be enacted, and such a joint resolution has
  not been enacted.
  `(iv) In the case of real property described in subparagraphs (E)(i)(II)
  on which operations are closed or realigned pursuant to a base closure law
  described in subparagraph (E)(ii)(III) or (E)(ii)(IV), the identification and
  concurrence required under subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, shall
  be made not later than 18 months after the date on which the real property
  is selected for closure or realignment pursuant to such a base closure law.
  `(D) In the case of the sale or other transfer of any parcel of real
  property identified under subparagraph (A), the deed entered into for the
  sale or transfer of such property by the United States to any other person
  or entity shall contain--
  `(i) a covenant warranting that any response action or corrective action
  found to be necessary after the date of such sale or transfer shall be
  conducted by the United States; and
  `(ii) a clause granting the United States access to the property in any case
  in which a response action or corrective action is found to be necessary
  after such date at such property, or such access is necessary to carry
  out a response action or corrective action on adjoining property.
  `(E)(i) This paragraph applies to--
  `(I) real property owned by the United States and on which the United
  States plans to terminate Federal Government operations, other than real
  property described in subclause (II); and
  `(II) real property that is or has been used as a military installation and
  on which the United States plans to close or realign military operations
  pursuant to a base closure law.
  `(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `base closure law' includes
  the following:
  `(I) Title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base Closure
  and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
  `(II) The Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of
  title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
  `(III) Section 2687 of title 10, United States Code.
  `(IV) Any provision of law authorizing the closure or realignment of a
  military installation enacted on or after the date of enactment of the
  Community Environmental Response Facilitation Act.
  `(F) Nothing in this paragraph shall affect, preclude, or otherwise impair
  the termination of Federal Government operations on real property owned
  by the United States.'.
SEC. 4. CLARIFICATION OF COVENANT WARRANTING THAT REMEDIAL ACTION HAS
BEEN TAKEN.
  (a) CLARIFICATION- Paragraph (3) of section 120(h) of the Comprehensive
  Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42
  U.S.C. 9620(h)(3)) is amended by adding after the last sentence of such
  paragraph the following: `For purposes of subparagraph (B)(i), all remedial
  action described in such subparagraph has been taken if the construction
  and installation of an approved remedial design has been completed, and the
  remedy has been demonstrated to the Administrator to be operating properly
  and successfully. The carrying out of long-term pumping and treating, or
  operation and maintenance, after the remedy has been demonstrated to the
  Administrator to be operating properly and successfully does not preclude
  the transfer of the property.'.
  (b) ACCESS TO PROPERTY- Paragraph (3) of such section is further amended--
  (1) by striking out `, and' at the end of subparagraph (A)(iii) and
  inserting in lieu thereof a semicolon;
  (2) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (B)(ii) and
  inserting in lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (3) by adding after subparagraph (B) the following new subparagraph:
  `(C) a clause granting the United States access to the property in any
  case in which remedial action or corrective action is found to be necessary
  after the date of such transfer.'.
SEC. 5. REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY STATES OF CERTAIN LEASES.
  Section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
  and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)), as amended by section 3,
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5) NOTIFICATION OF STATES REGARDING CERTAIN LEASES- In the case of real
  property owned by the United States, on which any hazardous substance or any
  petroleum product or its derivatives (including aviation fuel and motor oil)
  was stored for one year or more, known to have been released, or disposed
  of, and on which the United States plans to terminate Federal Government
  operations, the head of the department, agency, or instrumentality of the
  United States with jurisdiction over the property shall notify the State
  in which the property is located of any lease entered into by the United
  States that will encumber the property beyond the date of termination
  of operations on the property. Such notification shall be made before
  entering into the lease and shall include the length of the lease, the
  name of person to whom the property is leased, and a description of the
  uses that will be allowed under the lease of the property and buildings
  and other structures on the property.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.