 
--H.R.429--
H.R.429
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize additional appropriations for the construction of the Buffalo
Bill Dam
and Reservoir, Shoshone Project, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program, Wyoming.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Reclamation Projects Authorization and
  Adjustment Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITION AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  For purposes of this Act, the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of
  the Interior.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Definition and table of contents.
TITLE I--BUFFALO BILL DAM AND RESERVOIR, WYOMING
Sec. 101. Additional authorization of appropriations.
TITLE II--CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
Sec. 200. Short title and definitions for titles II-VI.
Sec. 201. Authorization of additional amounts for the Colorado River Storage
Project.
Sec. 202. Bonneville Unit water development.
Sec. 203. Uinta Basin Replacement Project.
Sec. 204. Non-Federal contribution.
Sec. 205. Definite Plan Report and environmental compliance.
Sec. 206. Local development in lieu of irrigation and drainage.
Sec. 207. Water management improvement.
Sec. 208. Limitation on hydropower operations.
Sec. 209. Operating agreements.
Sec. 210. Jordan Aqueduct prepayment.
Sec. 211. Audit of Central Utah Project cost allocations.
Sec. 212. Surplus crops.
TITLE III--FISH, WILDLIFE, AND RECREATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION
Sec. 301. Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
Sec. 302. Increased project water capability.
Sec. 303. Stream flows.
Sec. 304. Fish, wildlife, and recreation projects identified or proposed in
the 1988 Definite Plan Report for the Central Utah Project.
Sec. 305. Wildlife lands and improvements.
Sec. 306. Wetlands acquisition, rehabilitation, and enhancement.
Sec. 307. Fisheries acquisition, rehabilitation, and enhancement.
Sec. 308. Stabilization of high mountain lakes in the Uinta mountains.
Sec. 309. Stream access and riparian habitat development.
Sec. 310. Section 8 expenses.
Sec. 311. Jordan and Provo River Parkways and natural areas.
Sec. 312. Recreation.
Sec. 313. Fish and wildlife features in the Colorado River Storage Project.
Sec. 314. Concurrent mitigation appropriations.
Sec. 315. Fish, wildlife, and recreation schedule.
TITLE IV--UTAH RECLAMATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION ACCOUNT
Sec. 401. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 402. Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account.
TITLE V--UTE INDIAN RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
Sec. 501. Findings.
Sec. 502. Provisions for payment to the Ute Indian Tribe.
Sec. 503. Tribal use of water.
Sec. 504. Tribal farming operations.
Sec. 505. Reservoirs, stream, habitat, and road improvements with respect
to the Ute Indian Reservation.
Sec. 506. Tribal development funds.
Sec. 507. Waiver of claims.
TITLE VI--ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT AND NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
TITLE VII--LEADVILLE MINE DRAINAGE TUNNEL, COLORADO
Sec. 701. Authorization.
Sec. 702. Costs nonreimbursable.
Sec. 703. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 704. Appropriations authorized.
Sec. 705. Limitation.
Sec. 706. Design and operation notification.
Sec. 707. Fish and wildlife restoration.
Sec. 708. Water quality restoration.
TITLE VIII--LAKE MEREDITH SALINITY CONTROL PROJECT, TEXAS AND NEW MEXICO
Sec. 801. Authorization to construct and test.
Sec. 802. Construction contract with the Canadian River Municipal Water
Authority.
Sec. 803. Project costs.
Sec. 804. Construction and control.
Sec. 805. Transfer of title.
Sec. 806. Authorization.
TITLE IX--CEDAR BLUFF UNIT, KANSAS
Sec. 901. Authorization.
Sec. 902. Contract.
Sec. 903. Contract.
Sec. 904. Transfer of district headquarters.
Sec. 905. Liability and indemnification.
Sec. 906. Additional actions.
TITLE X--SOUTH DAKOTA WATER PLANNING STUDIES
Sec. 1001. Authorization for South Dakota water planning studies.
TITLE XI--SALTON SEA RESEARCH PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
Sec. 1101. Research project.
TITLE XII--AMENDMENT TO SABINE RIVER COMPACT
Sec. 1201. Consent to amendment to Sabine River compact.
Sec. 1202. Compact described.
Sec. 1203. Amendment.
TITLE XIII--SALT-GILA AQUEDUCT, ARIZONA
Sec. 1301. Designation.
Sec. 1302. References.
TITLE XIV--VERMEJO PROJECT RELIEF, NEW MEXICO
TITLE XV--SAN LUIS VALLEY PROTECTION, COLORADO
Sec. 1501. Permit issuance prohibited.
Sec. 1502. Judicial review.
Sec. 1503. Costs.
Sec. 1504. Disclaimers.
TITLE XVI--RECLAMATION WASTEWATER AND GROUND WATER STUDIES
Sec. 1601. Short title.
Sec. 1602. General authority.
Sec. 1603. Appraisal investigations.
Sec. 1604. Feasibility studies.
Sec. 1605. Research and demonstration projects.
Sec. 1606. Southern California comprehensive water reclamation and reuse study.
Sec. 1607. San Jose area water reclamation and reuse program.
Sec. 1608. Phoenix metropolitan water reclamation study and program.
Sec. 1609. Tucson area water reclamation study.
Sec. 1610. Lake Cheraw water reclamation and reuse study.
Sec. 1611. San Francisco area water reclamation study.
Sec. 1612. San Diego area water reclamation program.
Sec. 1613. Los Angeles area water reclamation and reuse project.
Sec. 1614. San Gabriel Basin demonstration project.
Sec. 1615. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 1616. Ground water study.
Sec. 1617. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XVII--IRRIGATION ON STANDING ROCK INDIAN RESERVATION, NORTH DAKOTA
Sec. 1701. Irrigation on Standing Rock Indian Reservation.
TITLE XVIII--GRAND CANYON PROTECTION
Sec. 1801. Short title.
Sec. 1802. Protection of Grand Canyon National Park.
Sec. 1803. Interim protection of Grand Canyon National Park.
Sec. 1804. Glen Canyon Dam environmental impact statement; long-term operation
of Glen Canyon Dam.
Sec. 1805. Long-term monitoring.
Sec. 1806. Rules of construction.
Sec. 1807. Studies nonreimbursable.
Sec. 1808. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 1809. Replacement power.
TITLE XIX--MID-DAKOTA RURAL WATER SYSTEM
Sec. 1901. Short title.
Sec. 1902. Definitions.
Sec. 1903. Federal assistance for rural water system.
Sec. 1904. Federal assistance for wetland development and enhancement.
Sec. 1905. Water conservation.
Sec. 1906. Mitigation of fish and wildlife losses.
Sec. 1907. Use of Pick-Sloan power.
Sec. 1908. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1909. Water rights.
Sec. 1910. Use of government facilities.
Sec. 1911. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XX--LAKE ANDES-WAGNER/MARTY II, SOUTH DAKOTA
Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Demonstration program.
Sec. 2003. Planning reports--environmental impact statements.
Sec. 2004. Authorization of the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit and the Marty II Unit,
South Dakota.
Sec. 2005. Conditions.
Sec. 2006. Indian employment.
Sec. 2007. Federal reclamation laws govern.
Sec. 2008. Cost sharing.
Sec. 2009. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 2010. Indian water rights.
TITLE XXI--RIO GRANDE FLOODWAY, SAN ACACIA TO BOSQUE DEL APACHE UNIT,
NEW MEXICO
Sec. 2101. Clarification of cost-share requirements.
TITLE XXII--SUNNYSIDE VALLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT, WASHINGTON
Sec. 2201. Conveyance to Sunnyside Valley Irrigation District.
TITLE XXIII--PLATORO RESERVOIR AND DAM, SAN LUIS VALLEY PROJECT, COLORADO
Sec. 2301. Findings and declarations.
Sec. 2302. Transfer of operation and maintenance responsibility of Platoro
Reservoir.
Sec. 2303. Definitions.
TITLE XXIV--REDWOOD COUNTY WATER DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA
Sec. 2401. Sale of Bureau of Reclamation loans.
Sec. 2402. Savings provisions.
Sec. 2403. Fees and expenses of program.
Sec. 2404. Termination of authority.
TITLE XXV--UNITED WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA
Sec. 2501. Sale of the Freeman Diversion Improvement Project loan.
Sec. 2502. Termination and conveyance of rights.
Sec. 2503. Termination of authority.
TITLE XXVI--HIGH PLAINS GROUNDWATER PROGRAM
Sec. 2601. High Plains States Groundwater Demonstration Program Act.
TITLE XXVII--MONTANA IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Sec. 2701. Pick-Sloan project pumping power.
TITLE XXVIII--RECLAMATION RECREATION MANAGEMENT ACT
Sec. 2801. Short title.
Sec. 2802. Findings.
Sec. 2803. Definitions.
Sec. 2804. Amendments to the Federal Water Project Recreation Act.
Sec. 2805. Management of reclamation lands.
Sec. 2806. Protection of authorized purposes of reclamation projects.
TITLE XXIX--SAN JUAN SUBURBAN WATER DISTRICT, CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT,
CALIFORNIA
Sec. 2901. Repayment of water pumps, San Juan Suburban Water District,
Central Valley Project, California.
TITLE XXX--WESTERN WATER POLICY REVIEW
Sec. 3001. Short title.
Sec. 3002. Congressional findings.
Sec. 3003. Presidential review.
Sec. 3004. The Advisory Commission.
Sec. 3005. Duties of the Commission.
Sec. 3006. Representatives.
Sec. 3007. Powers of the Commission.
Sec. 3008. Powers and duties of the Chairman.
Sec. 3009. Other Federal agencies.
Sec. 3010. Appropriations.
TITLE XXXI--MOUNTAIN PARK MASTER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT, OKLAHOMA
Sec. 3101. Payment by Mountain Park Master Conservancy District.
Sec. 3102. Reschedule of repayment obligation.
TITLE XXXII--SOUTH DAKOTA PRESERVATION AND RESTORATION TRUST Subpart
A--Biological Diversity Trust
Sec. 3201. South Dakota biological diversity trust.
Subpart B--Wetland Habitat Restoration Program
Sec. 3202. Definitions.
Sec. 3203. Wetland trust.
Sec. 3204. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE XXXIII--ELEPHANT BUTTE IRRIGATION DISTRICT, NEW MEXICO
Sec. 3301. Transfer.
Sec. 3302. Limitation.
Sec. 3303. Effect of Act on other laws.
TITLE XXXIV--CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT IMPROVEMENT ACT
Sec. 3401. Short title.
Sec. 3402. Purposes.
Sec. 3403. Definitions.
Sec. 3404. Limitation on contracting and contract reform.
Sec. 3405. Water transfers, improved water management and conservation.
Sec. 3406. Fish, wildlife and habitat restoration.
Sec. 3407. Restoration fund.
Sec. 3408. Additional authorities.
Sec. 3409. Environmental review.
Sec. 3410. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 3411. Compliance with State water law and coordinated operations
agreement.
Sec. 3412. Extension of the Tehama-Colusa Canal service area.
TITLE XXXV--THREE AFFILIATED TRIBES AND STANDING ROCK SIOUX TRIBE EQUITABLE
COMPENSATION PROGRAM, NORTH DAKOTA
Sec. 3501. Short title.
Sec. 3502. Definitions.
Sec. 3503. Findings; Declarations.
Sec. 3504. Funds.
Sec. 3505. Eligibility for other services not affected.
Sec. 3506. Per capita payments prohibited.
Sec. 3507. Standing Rock Sioux Indian Reservation.
Sec. 3508. Transfer of lands.
Sec. 3509. Transfer of lands at the Ohae Dam and Lake project.
Sec. 3510. Conforming amendment.
Sec. 3511. Authorization.
TITLE XXXVI--SONOMA BAYLANDS WETLAND DEMONSTRATION PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
Sec. 3601. Sonoma Baylands wetland demonstration project.
TITLE XXXVII--SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT, ARIZONA
Sec. 3701. Short title.
Sec. 3702. Congressional findings.
Sec. 3703. Definitions.
Sec. 3704. Water.
Sec. 3705. Ratification and confirmation of contracts.
Sec. 3706. Water delivery contract amendments; water lease, water withdrawal.
Sec. 3707. Construction and rehabilitation; trust fund.
Sec. 3708. Satisfaction of claims.
Sec. 3709. Environmental compliance.
Sec. 3710. Miscellaneous provisions.
Sec. 3711. Effective date.
TITLE XXXVIII--SAN FRANCISCO WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE DEMONSTRATION
PROJECT ACT
TITLE XXXIX--SIPHON REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT
TITLE XL--NATIONAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS
Sec. 4001. Short title.
Sec. 4002. Policy.
Sec. 4003. Review of threats to properties.
Sec. 4004. State historic preservation programs.
Sec. 4005. Certification of local governments.
Sec. 4006. Tribal historic preservation programs.
Sec. 4007. Matching grants.
Sec. 4008. Education and training.
Sec. 4009. Requirements for awarding of grants.
Sec. 4010. Apportionment of grant funds.
Sec. 4011. Extension of authorization for historic preservation fund.
Sec. 4012. Federal agency historic preservation programs.
Sec. 4013. Lease or exchange of Federal housing properties.
Sec. 4014. Professional standards.
Sec. 4015. Interstate and international traffic in antiquities.
Sec. 4016. Membership of advisory council on historic preservation.
Sec. 4017. Authorization of appropriations for advisory council on historic
preservation.
Sec. 4018. Advisory council regulations.
Sec. 4019. Definitions.
Sec. 4020. Access to information.
Sec. 4021. Recommendations.
Sec. 4022. National center for preservation technology and training.
Sec. 4023. Requirement for specific authorization for projects under the
Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act.
TITLE I--BUFFALO BILL DAM AND RESERVOIR, WYOMING
SEC. 101. ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Title I of Public Law 97-293 (96 Stat. 1261) is amended as follows:
  (a) In the second sentence of section 101, by striking `replacing the
  existing Shoshone Powerplant,' and inserting `constructing power generating
  facilities with a total installed capacity of 25.5 megawatts,'.
  (b) In section 102, amend the heading to read `recreational facilities,
  conservation, and fish and wildlife', and add at the end `The construction
  of recreational facilities in excess of the amount required to replace
  or relocate existing facilities is authorized, and the costs of such
  construction shall be borne equally by the United States and the State of
  Wyoming pursuant to the Federal Water Project Recreation Act.'.
  (c) In section 106(a), strike `for construction of the Buffalo Bill Dam
  and Reservoir modifications the sum of $106,700,000 (October 1982 price
  levels)' and insert `for the Federal share of the construction of the Buffalo
  Bill Dam and Reservoir modifications and recreational facilities the sum
  of $80,000,000 (October 1988 price levels)', and strike `modifications'
  and all that follows and insert `modifications.' in lieu thereof.
  (d) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be required
  due to increased costs of construction attributable to delays in enactment
  of any additional authorization of appropriations for the construction
  of the Buffalo Bill Dam and Reservoir modifications and recreational
  facilities: Provided, That such additional sums shall be nonreimbursable
  and nonreturnable under the Federal reclamation laws.
TITLE II--CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
SEC. 200. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS FOR TITLES II-VI.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- Titles II through VI of this Act may be cited as the
  `Central Utah Project Completion Act'.
  (b) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of titles II-VI of this Act:
  (1) The term `Bureau' means the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department
  of the Interior.
  (2) The term `Commission' means the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and
  Conservation Commission established by section 301 of this Act.
  (3) The term `conservation measure(s)' means actions taken to improve
  the efficiency of the storage, conveyance, distribution, or use of water,
  exclusive of dams, reservoirs, or wells.
  (4) The term `1988 Definite Plan Report' means the May 1988 Draft Supplement
  to the Definite Plan Report for the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah
  Project.
  (5) The term `District' means the Central Utah Water Conservancy District.
  (6) The term `fish and wildlife resources' means all birds, fishes, mammals,
  and all other classes of wild animals and all types of habitat upon which
  such fish and wildlife depend.
  (7) The term `Interagency Biological Assessment Team' means the team
  comprised of representatives from the United States Fish and Wildlife
  Service, the United States Forest Service, the Bureau of Reclamation,
  the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources, and the District.
  (8) The term `administrative expenses', as used in section 301(i) of
  this Act, means all expenses necessary for the Commission to administer
  its duties other than the cost of the contracts or other transactions
  provided for in section 301(f)(3) for the implementation by public natural
  resource management agencies of the mitigation and conservation projects
  and features authorized in this Act. Such administrative expenses include
  but are not limited to the costs associated with the Commission's planning,
  reporting, and public involvement activities, as well as the salaries,
  travel expenses, office equipment, and other such general administrative
  expenses authorized in this Act.
  (9) The term `petitioner(s)' means any person or entity that petitions the
  District for an allotment of water pursuant to the Utah Water Conservancy
  Act, Utah Code Ann. Sec. 17A-2-1401 et. seq.
  (10) The term `project' means the Central Utah Project.
  (11) The term `public involvement' means to request comment on the scope
  of and, subsequently, on drafts of proposed actions or plans, affirmatively
  soliciting comments, in writing or at public hearings, from those persons,
  agencies, or organizations who may be interested or affected.
  (12) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (13) The term `section 8' means section 8 of the Act of April 11, 1956
  (70 Stat. 110; 43 U.S.C. 620g).
  (14) The term `State' means the State of Utah, its political subdivisions,
  or its designee.
  (15) The term `Stream Flow Agreement' means the agreement entered into by
  the United States through the Secretary of the Interior, the State of Utah,
  and the Central Utah Water Conservancy District, dated February 27, 1980,
  as modified by the amendment to such agreement, dated September 13, 1990.
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS FOR THE COLORADO RIVER STORAGE
PROJECT.
  (a)(1) INCREASE IN CRSP AUTHORIZATION- In order to provide for the completion
  of the Central Utah Project and other features described in this Act,
  the amount which section 12 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 110;
  43 U.S.C. 620k), authorizes to be appropriated, which was increased by
  the Act of August 10, 1972 (86 Stat. 525; 43 U.S.C. 620k note) and the
  Act of October 31, 1988 (102 Stat. 2826), is hereby further increased by
  $924,206,000 (January 1991) plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may
  be required by reason of changes in construction costs as indicated by
  engineering cost indexes applicable to the type of construction involved:
  Provided, however, That of the amounts authorized to be appropriated
  by this section, the Secretary is not authorized to obligate or expend
  amounts in excess of $214,352,000 for the features identified in the Report
  of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources accompanying the
  bill H.R. 429. This additional sum shall be available solely for design,
  engineering, and construction of the facilities identified in title II of
  this Act and for the planning and implementation of the fish and wildlife
  and recreation mitigation and conservation projects and studies authorized in
  titles III and IV of this Act, and for the Ute Indian Settlement authorized
  in title V of this Act.
  (2) APPLICATION OF INSPECTOR GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS- Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law to the contrary, the Secretary shall implement all the
  recommendations contained in the report entitled `Review of the Financial
  Management of the Colorado River Storage Project, Bureau of Reclamation
  (Report No. 88-45, February 1988)', prepared by the Inspector General of
  the Department of the Interior, with respect to the funds authorized to
  be appropriated in this section.
  (b) UTAH RECLAMATION PROJECTS AND FEATURES NOT TO BE FUNDED- Notwithstanding
  the Act of April 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 110; 43 U.S.C. 105), the Act of
  August 10, 1972 (86 Stat. 525; 43 U.S.C. 620k note), the Act of October
  19, 1980 (94 Stat. 2239; 43 U.S.C. 620), and the Act of October 31, 1988
  (102 Stat. 2826), funds may not be made available, obligated, or expended
  for the following Utah reclamation projects and features:
  (1) Fish and wildlife features:
  (A) The dam in Bjorkman Hollow.
  (B) The Deep Creek pumping plant.
  (C) The North Fork pumping plant.
  (2) Water development projects and features:
  (A) Mosida pumping plant, canals, and laterals.
  (B) Draining of Benjamin Slough.
  (C) Diking of Goshen or Provo Bays in Utah Lake.
  (D) Ute Indian Unit.
  (E) Leland Bench development.
  (F) All features of the Bonneville Unit, Central Utah Project not proposed
  and described in the 1988 Definite Plan Report.
Counties in which the projects and features described in this subsection
were proposed to be located may participate in the local development projects
provided for in section 206.
  (c) TERMINATION OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Notwithstanding any
  provision of the Act of April 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 110; 43 U.S.C. 620k),
  the Act of September 2, 1964 (78 Stat. 852), the Act of September 30, 1968
  (82 Stat. 885), the Act of August 10, 1972 (86 Stat. 525; 43 U.S.C. 620k
  note), and the Act of October 31, 1988 (102 Stat. 2826) to the contrary,
  the authorization of appropriations for construction of any Colorado River
  Storage Project participating project located in the State of Utah shall
  terminate five years after the date of enactment of this Act unless:
  (1) the Secretary executes a cost-sharing agreement with the District
  for construction of such project, and (2) the Secretary has requested,
  or the Congress has appropriated, construction funds for such project.
  (d) USE OF APPROPRIATED FUNDS- Funds authorized pursuant to this Act shall
  be appropriated to the Secretary and such appropriations shall be made
  immediately available in their entirety to the District and the Commission
  as provided for pursuant to the provisions of this Act.
  (e) SECRETARIAL RESPONSIBILITY- The Secretary is responsible for carrying
  out the responsibilities as specifically identified in this Act and
  may not delegate his responsibilities under this Act to the Bureau of
  Reclamation. The District at its sole option may use the services of the
  Bureau of Reclamation on any project features.
SEC. 202. BONNEVILLE UNIT WATER DEVELOPMENT.
  (a) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated in section 201, the
  following amounts shall be available only for the following features of
  the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project:
  (1) IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE SYSTEM- (A) $150,000,000 for the construction
  of an enclosed pipeline primary water conveyance system from Spanish Fork
  Canyon to Sevier Bridge Reservoir for the purpose of supplying new and
  supplemental irrigation water supplies to Utah, Juab, Millard, Sanpete,
  Sevier, Garfield, and Piute Counties. Construction of the facilities
  specified in the previous sentence shall be undertaken by the District as
  specified in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph. No funds are authorized
  to be appropriated for construction of the facilities identified in this
  paragraph, except as provided for in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph.
  (B) The authorization to construct the features provided for in subparagraph
  (A) shall expire if no federally appropriated funds to construct such
  features have been obligated or expended by the District in accordance
  with this Act, unless the Secretary determines the District has complied
  with sections 202, 204, and 205, within five years from the date of its
  enactment, or such longer time as necessitated for--
  (i) completion, after the exercise of due diligence, of compliance measures
  outlined in a biological opinion issued pursuant to the Endangered Species
  Act (16 U.S.C. 1533 et seq.) for any species that is or may be listed as
  threatened or endangered under such Act: Provided, however, That such
  extension of time for the expiration of authorization shall not exceed
  twelve months beyond the five-year period provided in subparagraph (B)
  of this paragraph;
  (ii) judicial review of a completed final environmental impact statement
  for such features if such review is initiated by parties other than the
  District, the State, or petitioners of project water; or
  (iii) a judicial challenge of the Secretary's failure to make a determination
  of compliance under this subparagraph.
Provided, however, That in the event that construction is not initiated on
the features provided for in subparagraph (A), $125,000,000 shall remain
authorized pursuant to the provisions of this Act applicable to subparagraph
(A) for the construction of alternate features to deliver irrigation water to
lands in the Utah Lake drainage basin, exclusive of the features identified
in section 201(b).
  (C) REQUIREMENT FOR BINDING CONTRACTS- Amounts authorized to carry out
  subparagraph (A) may not be obligated or expended, and may not be borrowed
  against, until binding contracts for the purchase for the purpose of
  agricultural irrigation of at least 90 percent of the irrigation water to
  be delivered from the features of the Central Utah Project described in
  subparagraph (A) have been executed.
  (D) In lieu of construction by the Secretary, the Central Utah Project and
  features specified in section 202(a)(1) shall be constructed by the District
  under the program guidelines authorized by Drainage Facilities and Minor
  Construction Act (Act of June 13, 1956, 70 Stat. 274, 43 U.S.C. 505). The
  sixty-day congressional notification of the Secretary's intent to use
  the Drainage Facilities and Minor Construction Act program is hereby
  waived with respect to construction of the features authorized in section
  202(a)(1). Any such feature shall be operated, maintained, and repaired
  by the District in accordance with repayment contracts and operation and
  maintenance agreements previously entered into between the Secretary and
  the District. The United States shall not be liable for damages resulting
  from the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and replacement by
  the District of the features specified in section 202(a)(1).
  (2) CONJUNCTIVE USE OF SURFACE AND GROUND WATER- $10,000,000 for a
  feasibility study and development, with public involvement, by the Utah
  Division of Water Resources of systems to allow ground water recharge,
  management, and the conjunctive use of surface water resources with ground
  water resources in Salt Lake, Utah, Davis, Wasatch, and Weber Counties, Utah.
  (3) WASATCH COUNTY WATER EFFICIENCY PROJECT- (A) $500,000 for the District
  to conduct, within two years from the date of enactment of this Act, a
  feasibility study with public involvement, of efficiency improvements in
  the management, delivery and treatment of water in Wasatch County, without
  interference with downstream water rights. Such feasibility study shall
  be developed after consultation with Wasatch County and the Commission,
  or the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources if the Commission has not
  been established, and shall identify the features of the Wasatch County
  Water Efficiency Project.
  (B) $10,000,000 for construction of the Wasatch County Water Efficiency
  Project, in addition to funds authorized in section 207(e)(2) for related
  purposes.
  (C) The feasibility study and the Project construction authorization shall
  be subject to the non-Federal contribution requirements of section 204.
  (D) The project construction authorization provided in subparagraph (B)
  shall expire if no federally  appropriated funds to construct such features
  have been obligated or expended by the District in accordance with this
  Act within five years from the date of completion of feasibility studies,
  or such longer times as necessitated for--
  (i) completion, after the exercise of due diligence, of compliance measures
  outlined in a biological opinion issued pursuant to the Endangered Species
  Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) for any species that is or may
  be listed as threatened or endangered under such Act, except that such
  extension of time for the expiration of authorization shall not exceed
  twelve months beyond the five-year period provided in this subparagraph; or
  (ii) judicial review of environmental studies prepared in compliance with
  the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) if
  such review was initiated by parties other than the District, the State,
  or petitioners of project water.
  (E) Amounts  authorized to carry out subparagraph (B) may not be obligated
  or expended, and may not be borrowed against, until binding contracts for
  the purchase of at least 90 percent of the supplemental irrigation project
  water to be delivered from the features constructed under subparagraph
  (B) have been executed.
  (F) In lieu of construction by the Secretary, the Central Utah Project and
  features specified in section 202(a)(3) shall be constructed by the District
  under the program guidelines authorized by the Drainage Facilities and Minor
  Construction Act (Act of June 13, 1956, 70 Stat. 274; 43 U.S.C. 505). The
  sixty-day congressional notification of the Secretary's  intent to use
  the Drainage Facilities and Minor Construction Act program is hereby
  waived with respect to construction of the features authorized in section
  202(a)(3). Any  such feature may be operated, maintained, and repaired
  by the District in accordance with repayment contracts and operation and
  maintenance agreements previously entered into between the Secretary and
  the District. The United States shall not be liable for damages  resulting
  from the design, construction, operation, maintenance, and replacement by
  the District of the features specified in section 202(a)(3).
  (4) UTAH LAKE SALINITY CONTROL- $1,000,000 for the District to conduct, with
  public involvement,  a feasibility study to reduce the salinity of Utah Lake.
  (5) PROVO RIVER STUDIES- (A) $2,000,000 for the District to conduct,
  with public involvement:
  (i) a hydrologic study  that includes a hydrologic model analysis of
  the Provo River Basin with all tributaries, water imports and exports,
  and diversions, an analysis of expected flows and storage under varying
  water conditions, and a comparison of steady State conditions with proposed
  demands being placed on the river and affected water resources, including
  historical diversions, decrees, and water rights, and
  (ii) a feasibility study of direct delivery of Colorado River Basin water
  from the Strawberry Reservoir or elsewhere in the Strawberry Collection
  System to the Provo River Basin, including the Wallsburg Tunnel and
  other possible  importation or exchange options. The studies shall also
  evaluate the potential for changes in existing importation patterns and
  quantities of water from the Weber and Duchesne River  Basins, and  shall
  describe the economic  and environmental consequences of each alternative
  identified. In addition to funds appropriated after the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary is authorized to utilize section 8 funds which may be
  available from fiscal year 1993 appropriations for the Central Utah Project
  for the purposes of carrying out the studies described in this paragraph.
  (B) The cost of the studies provided for in subparagraph (A) shall be
  treated as an expense under section 8: Provided, however, That the cost
  of such study shall be reallocated proportionate with project purposes
  in the event any conveyance alternative is subsequently authorized  and
  constructed. Within its available funds, the United States Geological
  Survey is directed to consult with the District in the preparation of the
  study identified in paragraph (5)(A)(i).
  (6) COMPLETION OF DIAMOND FORK SYSTEM- (A) Of the amounts authorized to
  be appropriated under section 201,  $69,000,000 shall be available to
  complete construction of the Diamond Fork System.
  (B) In lieu of construction by the Secretary, the facilities specified
  in paragraph (A) shall be constructed by the District under the program
  guidelines authorized by Drainage Facilities and Minor Construction Act (Act
  of June 13, 1956, 70 Stat. 274,  43 U.S.C. 505). The sixty-day congressional
  notification of the Secretary's intent to use the Drainage Facilities and
  Minor Construction Act program is hereby waived with respect to construction
  of the features authorized in section 202(a)(6). Any such feature may
  be operated, maintained, and repaired by the District in accordance with
  repayment contracts and operation and maintenance agreements previously
  entered into between the Secretary and the District. The United States
  shall not be liable for damages resulting from the design, construction,
  operation, maintenance, and replacement by the District of the features
  specified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
  (b) STRAWBERRY WATER USERS ASSOCIATION- (1) In exchange for, and as
  a precondition to approval of the Strawberry Water Users Association's
  petition for Bonneville Unit water, the Secretary, after consultation with
  the Secretary of Agriculture, shall impose conditions on such approval
  so as to ensure that the Strawberry Water Users Association shall manage
  and develop the lands referred to in subparagraph 4(e)(1)(A) of the Act
  of October 31, 1988 (102 Stat. 2826, 2828) in a manner compatible with the
  management and improvement of adjacent Federal lands for wildlife purposes,
  natural values, and recreation.
  (2) The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary shall not permit
  commercial or other development of Federal lands within sections 2 and
  13, T. 3 S., R. 12 W., and sections 7 and 8, T. 3 S., R. 11 W., Uintah
  Special Meridian. Such Federal lands shall be rehabilitated pursuant to
  subsection 4(f) of the Act of October 31, 1988 (102 Stat. 2826, 2828)
  and hereafter managed and improved for wildlife purposes, natural values,
  and recreation consistent with the Uinta National Forest Land and Natural
  Resource Management Plan. This restriction shall not apply to the 95
  acres referred to in the first sentence of subparagraph 4(e)(1)(A) of the
  Act of October 31, 1988 (102 Stat. 2826, 2828), valid existing rights,
  or to uses of such Federal lands by the Secretary of Agriculture or the
  Secretary for public purposes.
  (c) The Secretary is authorized to utilize any unexpended budget authority
  provided in title II and such funds as may be provided by the Commission for
  fish and wildlife purposes, to provide 65 percent Federal share pursuant
  to section 204, of engineering, design, and construction of Hatchtown
  dam in Garfield County and associated facilities to deliver supplemental
  project water from Hatchtown dam. The District shall establish a viable
  minimum conservation pool in Hatchtown dam and shall ensure maintenance
  of viable instream flows in the Sevier River between Hatchtown dam and
  the Piute dam with the concurrence of the Commission and in consultation
  with the Division of Wildlife Resources of the State of Utah. The District
  shall comply with the provisions of section 202(a)(1) with respect to the
  features to be provided for in this subsection.
SEC. 203. UINTA BASIN REPLACEMENT PROJECT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section
  201, $30,538,000 shall be available only to increase efficiency, enhance
  beneficial uses, and achieve greater water conservation within the Uinta
  Basin, as follows:
  (1) $13,582,000 for the construction of the Pigeon Water Reservoir, together
  with an enclosed pipeline conveyance system to divert water from Lake Fork
  River to Pigeon Water Reservoir and Sandwash Reservoir.
  (2) $2,987,000 for the construction of McGuire Draw Reservoir.
  (3) $7,669,000 for the construction of Clay Basin Reservoir.
  (4) $4,000,000 for the rehabilitation of Farnsworth Canal.
  (5) $2,300,000 for the construction of permanent diversion facilities
  identified by the Commission on the Duchesne and Strawberry Rivers,
  the designs of which shall be approved by the Federal and State fish and
  wildlife agencies. The amount identified in paragraph (5) shall be treated
  as an expense under section 8.
  (b) EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATION- The authorization to construct any of
  the features provided for in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a)--
  (1) shall expire if no federally appropriated funds for such features
  have been obligated or expended by the District in accordance with this
  Act within five years from the date of completion of feasibility studies,
  or such longer time as necessitated for--
  (A) completion, after the exercise of due diligence, of compliance measures
  outlined in a biological opinion issued pursuant to the Endangered Species
  Act (16 U.S.C. 1533 et seq.) for any species that is or may be listed
  as threatened or endangered under such Act: Provided, however, That such
  extension of time for the expiration of authorization shall not exceed 12
  months beyond the five-year period provided in this paragraph; or
  (B) judicial review of environmental studies prepared in compliance with
  the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) if
  such review was initiated by parties other than the District, the State,
  or petitioners of project water; and
  (2) shall expire if the Secretary determines that such feature is not
  feasible.
  (c) REQUIREMENT FOR BINDING CONTRACTS- Amounts authorized to carry out
  subsection (a), paragraphs (1) through (4) may not be obligated or expended,
  and may not be borrowed against, until binding contracts for the purchase
  of at least 90 percent of the supplemental irrigation water to be delivered
  from the features of the Central Utah Project described in subsection (a),
  paragraphs (1) through (4) have been executed.
  (d) NON-FEDERAL OPTION- In lieu of construction by the Secretary, the
  features described in subsection (a), paragraphs (1) through (5) shall be
  constructed by the District under the program guidelines authorized by the
  Drainage Facilities and Minor Construction Act (Act of June 13, 1956, 70
  Stat. 274, 43 U.S.C. 505). The sixty-day congressional notification of the
  Secretary's intent to use the Drainage Facilities and Minor Construction
  Act program is hereby waived with respect to construction of the features
  authorized in section 203(a). Any such feature may be operated, maintained,
  and repaired by the District in accordance with repayment contracts and
  operation and maintenance agreements previously entered into between the
  Secretary and the District. The United States shall not be liable for
  damages resulting from the design, construction, operation, maintenance,
  and replacement by the District of the features specified in subsection
  (a) of this section.
  (e) WATER RIGHTS- To make water rights available for any of the features
  constructed as authorized in this section, the Bureau shall convey to the
  District in accordance with State law the water rights evidenced by Water
  Right No. 43-3825 (Application No. A36642) and Water Right No. 43-3827
  (Application No. A36644).
  (f) UINTAH INDIAN IRRIGATION PROJECT- (1) Notwithstanding any other
  provision of law, the Secretary is authorized and directed to enter into
  a contract or cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to the Uintah
  Indian Irrigation Project Operation and Maintenance Company, or any other
  organization representing the water users within the Uintah Indian Irrigation
  Project area, to enable such organization to--
  (A) administer the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project, or part thereof, and
  (B) operate, maintain, rehabilitate, and construct all or some of the
  irrigation project facilities using the same administrative authority and
  management procedures as used by water user organizations formed under
  State laws who administer, operate, and maintain irrigation projects.
  (2) Title to Uintah Indian Irrigation Project rights-of-way and facilities
  shall remain in the United States. The Secretary shall retain any trust
  responsibilities to the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project.
  (3) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall use
  funds received from assessments, carriage agreements, leases, and all
  other additional sources related to the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project
  exclusively for Uintah Indian Irrigation Project administration, operation,
  maintenance, rehabilitation, and construction where appropriate. Upon
  receipt, the Secretary shall deposit such funds in an account in the Treasury
  of the United States. Amounts in the account not currently needed shall
  earn interest at the rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury,
  taking into consideration current market yields on outstanding obligations
  of the United States with remaining periods to maturity comparable to
  the period for which such funds are not currently needed.  Amounts in the
  account shall be available without further authorization or appropriation
  by Congress. Such amounts shall be treated as private funds to be held in
  trust for landowners of the irrigation project and shall not be treated
  as public or appropriated funds.
  (4) All noncontract costs, direct and indirect, required to administer
  the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project shall be nonreimbursable and paid
  for by the Secretary as part of his trust responsibilities, beginning on
  the date of enactment of this Act. Such costs shall include (but not be
  limited to) the noncontract cost positions of project manager or engineer
  and two support staff. Such costs shall be added to the funding of the
  Uintah and Ouray Agency of the Bureau of Indian Affairs as a line item.
  (5) The Secretary is authorized to sell, lease, or otherwise make available
  the use of irrigation project equipment to a water user organization which
  is under obligation to the Secretary to administer, operate, and maintain
  the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project or part thereof.
  (6) The Secretary is authorized to lease or otherwise make available the
  use of irrigation project facilities to a water  user organization which
  is under obligation to the Secretary to administer, operate, and maintain
  the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project or part thereof.
  (g) BRUSH CREEK AND JENSEN UNIT- (1) The Secretary is authorized to
  enter into Amendatory Contract Number 6-05-01-00143, as last revised
  on September 19, 1988, between the United States and the Uintah Water
  Conservancy District, which provides, among other things, for part of the
  municipal and industrial water obligation now the responsibility of the
  Uintah Water Conservancy District to be retained by the United States with
  a corresponding part of the water supply to be controlled and marketed by
  the United States. Such water shall be marketed and used in conformance
  with State law.
  (2) The Secretary, through the Bureau, shall--
  (A) establish a conservation pool of 4,000 acre-feet in Red Fleet
  Reservoir for the purpose of enhancing associated fishery and recreational
  opportunities and for such other purposes as may be recommended by the
  Commission in consultation with the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources,
  United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Utah Division of Parks
  and Recreation; and
  (B) enter into an agreement with the Utah Division of Parks and Recreation
  for the management and operation of Red Fleet recreational facilities.
SEC. 204. NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION.
  The non-Federal share of the cost for the design, engineering, and
  construction of the Central Utah Project features authorized by sections
  202 and 203 shall be 35 percent of the total reimbursable costs and shall
  be paid concurrently with the Federal share, except that for the facilities
  specified in 202(a)(6), the cost-share shall be 35 percent of the costs
  allocated to irrigation beyond the ability of irrigators to repay. The
  non-Federal share of the cost for studies required by sections 202 and 203,
  other than the study required by section 202(a)(5), shall be 50 percent and
  shall be paid concurrently with the Federal share. Within one hundred and
  twenty days of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall execute a cost
  sharing agreement which binds the District to provide annually such sums as
  may be required to satisfy the non-Federal share of the separate features
  authorized and approved for construction pursuant to this Act. The Secretary
  is not authorized to broaden the scope of the cost sharing agreement beyond
  assuring that the non-Federal interests will satisfy the cost sharing
  provisions as set forth in this section. Any feature to which this section
  applies shall not be initiated until after the non-Federal interests enter
  into a cost sharing agreement with the Secretary to provide the share
  required by this section. The District may commence any study authorized
  herein prior to entering into a cost sharing agreement, and upon execution
  of a cost sharing agreement the Secretary shall reimburse the District an
  amount equal to the Federal share of the funds expended by the District.
SEC. 205. DEFINITE PLAN REPORT AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.
  (a) DEFINITE PLAN REPORT AND FEASIBILITY STUDIES- Except for amounts required
  for compliance with applicable environmental laws and the purposes of this
  subsection, federally appropriated funds may not be obligated or expended
  by the District for construction of the features authorized in section
  202(a)(1) or 203 until--
  (1) the District completes--
  (A) a Definite Plan Report for the system authorized in section 202(a)(1), or
  (B) an analysis to determine the feasibility of the separate features
  described in section 203(a), paragraphs (1) through (4), or subsection (f);
  (2) the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
  U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) have been satisfied with respect to the particular
  system; and
  (3) a plan has been developed with and approved by the United States Fish
  and Wildlife Service to prevent any harmful contamination of waters due to
  concentrations of selenium or other such toxicants, if the Service determines
  that development of the particular system may result in such contamination.
  (b) COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND THE TERMS OF THIS ACT-
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, Federal funds authorized
  under this title may not be provided to the District until the District
  enters into a binding agreement with the Secretary to be considered a
  `Federal Agency' for purposes of compliance with all Federal fish, wildlife,
  recreation, and environmental laws with respect to the use of such funds,
  and to comply with this Act. The Secretary shall execute such binding
  agreement within one hundred and twenty days of enactment of this Act.
  (c) INITIATION OF REPAYMENT- For purposes of repayment of costs obligated
  and expended prior to the date of enactment of this Act, the Definite Plan
  Report shall be considered as being filed and approved by the Secretary,
  and repayment of such costs shall be initiated by the Secretary of Energy
  at the earliest possible date. All the costs allocated to irrigation
  and associated with construction of the Strawberry Collection System, a
  component of the Bonneville Unit, obligated prior to the date of enactment
  of this Act shall be included by the Secretary of Energy in the costs
  specified in this subsection.
  (d) Of the amounts authorized in section 201, the Secretary is directed to
  make sums available to the District as required by the District, for the
  completion of the plans, studies, and analyses required by this section
  pursuant to the cost sharing provisions of section 204.
  (e) CONTENT AND APPROVAL OF THE DEFINITE  PLAN REPORT- The Definite
  Plan Report required under this section shall include economic analyses
  consistent with the Economic and Environmental Principles and Guidelines
  for Water and Related Land Resources Implementation Studies (March 10,
  1983). The Secretary may withhold approval of the Definite Plan Report
  only on the basis of the inadequacy of the document, and specifically not
  on the basis of the findings of its economic analyses.
SEC. 206. LOCAL DEVELOPMENT IN LIEU OF IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE.
  (a) OPTIONAL REBATE TO COUNTIES- (1) After two years from the date of
  enactment of this Act, the District shall, at the option of an eligible
  county as provided in paragraph (2), rebate to such county all of the
  ad valorem tax contributions paid by such county to the District, with
  interest but less the value of any benefits received by such county and
  less the administrative expenses incurred by the District to that date.
  (2) Counties eligible to receive the rebate provided for in paragraph
  (1) include any county within the District, except for Salt Lake County
  and Utah County, in which the construction of Central Utah Project water
  storage or delivery features authorized in this Act has not commenced and--
  (A) in which there are no binding contracts as required under section
  202(1)(C); or
  (B) in which the authorization for the project or feature was repealed
  pursuant to section 201(b) or expired pursuant to section 202(1)(B) of
  this Act.
  (b) LOCAL DEVELOPMENT OPTION- (1) Upon the request of any eligible county
  that elects not to participate in the project as provided in subsection
  (a), the Secretary shall provide as a grant to such county an amount that,
  when matched with the rebate received by such county, shall constitute 65
  percent of the cost of implementation of measures identified in paragraph
  (2).
  (2)(A) The grant provided for in this subsection shall be available for
  the following purposes:
  (i) Potable water distribution and treatment.
  (ii) Wastewater collection and treatment.
  (iii) Agricultural water management.
  (iv) Other public infrastructure improvements as may be approved by the
  Secretary.
  (B) Funds made available under this subsection may not be used for--
  (i) draining of wetlands;
  (ii) dredging of natural water courses; and
  (iii) planning or constructing water impoundments of greater than five
  thousand acre-feet, except for the proposed Hatch Town Dam on the Sevier
  River in southern Garfield County, Utah.
  (C) All Federal environmental laws shall be applicable to any projects or
  features developed pursuant to this section.
  (3) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, not more
  than $40,000,000 may be available for the purposes of this subsection.
SEC. 207. WATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT.
  (a) PURPOSES- The purposes of this section are, through such means as are
  cost-effective and environmentally sound, to--
  (1) encourage the conservation and wise use of water;
  (2) reduce the probability and duration of periods necessitating
  extraordinary curtailment of water use;
  (3) achieve beneficial reductions in water use and system costs;
  (4) prevent or eliminate unnecessary depletion of waters in order to
  assist in the improvement and maintenance of water quantity, quality, and
  streamflow conditions necessary to augment water supplies and support fish,
  wildlife, recreation, and other public benefits;
  (5) make prudent and efficient use of currently available water prior to
  any importation of Bear River water into Salt Lake County, Utah; and
  (6) provide a systematic approach to the accomplishment of these purposes
  and an objective basis for measuring their achievement.
  (b) WATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PLAN- The District, after consultation
  with the State and with each petitioner of project water, shall prepare
  and maintain a water management improvement plan. The first plan shall be
  submitted to the Secretary by January 1, 1995. Every three years thereafter
  the District shall prepare and submit a supplement to this plan. The
  Secretary shall either approve or disapprove such plan or supplement
  thereto within six months of its submission.
  (1) ELEMENTS- The plan shall include the following elements:
  (A) A water conservation goal, consisting of the greater of the following
  two amounts for each petitioner of project water:
  (i) 25 percent of each petitioner's projected increase in annual water
  deliveries between the years 1990 and 2000, or such later ten-year period
  as the District may find useful for planning purposes; or
  (ii) the amount by which unaccounted for water or, in the case of irrigation
  entities, transport losses, exceeds 10 percent of recorded annual water
  deliveries.
The minimum goal for the District shall be thirty thousand acre-feet per
year. In the event that the pipeline conveyance system described in section
202(a)(1)(A) is not constructed due to expiration of the authorization pursuant
to section 202(a)(1)(B), the minimum goal for the District shall be reduced by
five thousand acre-feet per year. In the event that the Wasatch County Water
Efficiency Project authorized in section 202(a)(3)(B) is not constructed
due to expiration of the authorization pursuant to section 202(a)(3)(D),
the minimum goal for the District shall be reduced by five thousand acre-feet
per year. In the event the water supply which would have been supplied by the
pipeline conveyance system described in section 202(a)(1)(A) is made available
and delivered to municipal and industrial or agricultural petitioners in Salt
Lake, Utah or Juab counties subsequent to the expiration of the authorization
pursuant to section 202(a)(1)(B), the minimum goal for the District shall
increase five thousand acre-feet per year. In no event shall the minimum
goal for the District be less than twenty thousand acre-feet per year.
  (B) A water management improvement inventory, containing--
  (i) conservation measures to improve the efficiency of the storage,
  conveyance, distribution, and use of water in a manner that contributes
  to the accomplishment of the purposes of this section, exclusive of any
  measures promulgated pursuant to subsection (f)(2) (A) through (D);
  (ii) the estimated economic and financial costs of each such measure;
  (iii) the estimated water yield of each such measure; and
  (iv) the socioeconomic and environmental effects of each such measure.
  (C) A comparative analysis of each cost-effective and environmentally
  acceptable measure.
  (D) A schedule of implementation for the following five years.
  (E) An assessment of the performance of previously implemented conservation
  measures, if any. Each plan or plan supplement shall be technically sound,
  internally consistent and supported by objective analysis.
Not less than ninety days prior to its transmittal to the Secretary,
the plan, or plan supplement, together with all supporting documentation
demonstrating compliance with this section, shall be made available by the
District for public review, hearing, and comment. All significant comments,
and the District's response thereto, shall accompany the plan transmitted
to the Secretary.
  (2) EVALUATION OF CONSERVATION MEASURES-
  (A) Any conservation measure proposed to the District by the Executive
  Director of the Utah Department of Natural Resources shall be added to the
  water management improvement inventory and evaluated by the District. Any
  conservation measure, up to a cumulative five in number within any three-year
  period, submitted by nonprofit sportsmen or environmental organizations
  shall be added to the water management improvement inventory and evaluated
  by the District.
  (B) Each conservation measure that is found to be cost-effective, without
  significant adverse impact to the financial integrity of the District
  or a petitioner of project water, environmentally acceptable and for
  which the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
  (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) have been satisfied, and in the public interest
  shall be deemed to constitute the `active inventory'. For purposes of this
  section, the determination of benefits shall take into account:
  (i) the value of saved water, to be determined, in the case of municipal
  water, on the basis of the project municipal and industrial repayment
  obligation of the District, but in no case less than $200 per acre-foot, and,
  in the case of irrigation water, on the basis of operation, maintenance,
  and replacement costs plus the `full cost' rate for irrigation computed
  in accordance with section 302(3) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982
  (96 Stat. 1263; 43 U.S.C. 390bb), but in no case less than $50 per acre-foot;
  (ii) the reduced cost of wastewater treatment, if any;
  (iii) net additional hydroelectric power generation, if any, valued at
  avoided cost;
  (iv) net savings in operation, maintenance, and replacement costs; and
  (v) net savings in on-farm costs.
  (3) IMPLEMENTATION- The District, and each petitioner of project water,
  as appropriate, shall implement and maintain, consistent with State law,
  conservation measures placed in the active inventory to the maximum practical
  extent necessary to achieve 50 percent of the water conservation goal
  within seven years after submission of the initial plan and 100 percent
  of the water conservation goal within fifteen years after submission of
  the initial plan. Priority shall be given to implementation of the most
  cost-effective measures that are--
  (A) found to reduce consumptive use of water without significant adverse
  impact to the financial integrity of the District or the petitioner of
  project water;
  (B) environmentally acceptable and for which the requirements of the
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) has
  been satisfied; and
  (C) found to be in the public interest.
  (4) USE OF SAVED WATER- All water saved by any conservation measure
  implemented by the District or a petitioner of project water under subsection
  (b)(3) may be retained by the District or the petitioner of project water
  which saved such water for its own use or disposition. The specific amounts
  of water saved by any conservation measure implemented under subsection
  (b)(3) shall be based upon the determination of yield under paragraph
  (b)(1)(B)(iii), and as may be confirmed or modified by assessment pursuant
  to paragraph (b)(1)(E). Each petitioner of project water may make available
  to the District water in an amount equivalent to the water saved, which the
  District may make available to the Secretary for instream flows in addition
  to the stream flow requirements established by section 303. Such instream
  flows shall be released from project facilities, subject to space available
  in project conveyance systems, to at least one watercourse in the Bonneville
  and Uinta River Basins, respectively, to be designated by the United States
  Fish and Wildlife Service as recommended by the Interagency Biological
  Assessment Team. Such flows shall be protected against appropriation in
  the same manner as the minimum streamflow requirements established by
  section 303. The Secretary shall reduce the annual contractual repayment
  obligation of the District equal to the project rate for delivered water,
  including operation and maintenance expenses, for water saved for instream
  flows pursuant to this subsection. The District shall credit or rebate to
  each petitioner of project water its proportionate share of the District's
  repayment savings for reductions in deliveries of project water as a result
  of this subsection.
  (5) STATUS REPORT ON THE PLANNING PROCESS- Prior to January 1, 1994,
  the District shall establish a continuous process for the identification,
  evaluation, and implementation of water conservation measures to achieve the
  purposes of this section, and submit a report thereon to the Secretary. The
  report shall include a description of this process, including its financial
  resources, technical support, public involvement, and identification of
  staff responsible for its development and implementation.
  (c) WATER CONSERVATION PRICING STUDY-
  (1) Within three years from the date of enactment of this Act, the District,
  after consultation with the State and each petitioner of project water,
  shall prepare and transmit to the Secretary a study of wholesale and retail
  pricing to encourage water conservation as described in this subsection,
  together with its conclusions and recommendations.
  (2) The purposes of this study are--
  (A) to design and evaluate potential rate designs and pricing policies
  for water supply and wastewater treatment within the District boundary;
  (B) to estimate demand elasticity for each of the principal categories of
  end use of water within the District boundary;
  (C) to quantify monthly water savings estimated to result from the various
  designs and policies to be evaluated; and
  (D) to identify a water pricing system that reflects the incremental
  scarcity value of water and rewards effective water conservation programs.
  (3) Pricing policies to be evaluated in the study shall include but not
  be limited to the following, alone and in combination:
  (A) recovery of all costs, including a reasonable return on investment,
  through water and wastewater service charges;
  (B) seasonal rate differentials;
  (C) drought year surcharges;
  (D) increasing block rate schedules;
  (E) marginal cost pricing;
  (F) rates accounting for differences in costs based upon point of delivery;
  and
  (G) rates based on the effect of phasing out the collection of ad valorem
  property taxes by the District and the petitioners of project water over
  a five-year and ten-year period.
The District may incorporate policies developed by the study in the Water
Management Improvement Plan prepared under subsection (b).
  (4) Not less than ninety days prior to its transmittal to the Secretary,
  the study, together with the District's preliminary conclusions and
  recommendations and all supporting documentation, shall be available for
  public review and comment, including public hearings. All significant
  comments, and the District's response thereto, shall accompany the study
  transmitted to the Secretary.
  (5) Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to authorize the Secretary,
  or grant new authority to the District or petitioners of project water,
  to require the implementation of any policies or recommendations contained
  in the study.
  (d) Study of Coordinated Operations-
  (1) Within three years from the date of enactment of this Act, the District,
  after consultation with the State and each petitioner of project water,
  shall prepare and transmit to the Secretary a study of the coordinated
  operation of independent municipal and industrial and irrigation water
  systems, together with its conclusions and recommendations. The District
  shall evaluate cost-effective flexible operating procedures that will--
  (A) improve the availability and reliability of water supply;
  (B) coordinate the timing of reservoir releases under existing water
  rights to improve instream flows for fisheries, wildlife, recreation,
  and other environmental values, if possible;
  (C) assist in managing drought emergencies by making more efficient use
  of facilities;
  (D) encourage the maintenance of existing wells and other facilities which
  may be placed on stand-by status when water deliveries from the project
  become available;
  (E) allow for the development, protection, and sustainable use of
  ground-water resources in the District boundary;
  (F) not reduce the benefits that would be generated in the absence of the
  joint operating procedures; and
  (G) integrate management of surface and ground-water supplies and storage
  capability.
The District may incorporate measures developed by the study in the Water
Management Improvement Plan prepared under subsection (b).
  (2) Not less than ninety days prior to its transmittal to the Secretary,
  the study, together with the District's preliminary conclusions and
  recommendations and all supporting documentation, shall be available for
  public review and comment, including public hearings. All significant
  comments, and the District's response thereto, shall accompany the study
  transmitted to the Secretary.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to authorize the Secretary,
  or grant new authority to the District or petitioners of project water,
  to require the implementation of any operating procedures, conclusions,
  or recommendations contained in the study.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) For an amount not to exceed 50
  percent of the cost of conducting the studies identified in subsections (c)
  and (d) and developing the plan identified in subsection (b), $3,000,000
  shall be available from the amount authorized to be appropriated by section
  201, and shall remain available until expended. The Federal share shall
  be allocated among project purposes in the same proportions as the joint
  costs of the Strawberry Collection System, and shall be repaid in the
  manner of repayment for each such purpose.
  (2) For an amount not to exceed 65 percent of the cost of implementation
  of the conservation measures in accordance with subsection (b), $50,000,000
  shall be available from the amount authorized to be appropriated in section
  201, and shall remain available until expended. $10,000,000 authorized
  by this paragraph shall be made available for conservation measures in
  Wasatch County identified in the study pursuant to section 202(a)(3)(A)
  which measures satisfy the requirements of subsection (b)(2)(B) and shall
  thereafter be available for the purposes of this paragraph. The Federal
  share shall be allocated between the purposes of municipal and industrial
  water supply and irrigation, as appropriate, and shall be repaid in the
  manner of repayment for each such purpose.
  (f) UTAH WATER CONSERVATION ADVISORY BOARD- (1) Within two years of the
  date of enactment of this Act, the Governor of the State may establish a
  board consisting of nine members to be known as the Utah Water Conservation
  Advisory Board, with the duties described in this subsection. In the event
  that the Governor does not establish said board by such date, the Secretary
  shall establish a Utah Water Conservation Advisory Board consisting of
  nine members appointed by the Secretary from a list of names supplied by
  the Governor.
  (2) The Board shall recommend water conservation standards and regulations
  for promulgation by State or local authorities in the service area of each
  petitioner of project water, including but not limited to the following:
  (A) metering or measuring of water to all customers, to be accomplished
  within five years. (For purposes of this paragraph, residential buildings
  of more than four units may be considered as single customers.);
  (B) elimination of declining block rate schedules from any system of water
  or wastewater treatment charges;
  (C) a program of leak detection and repair that provides for the inspection
  of all conveyance and distribution mains, and the performance of repairs,
  at intervals of three years or less;
  (D) low consumption performance standards applicable to the sale and
  installation of plumbing fixtures and fittings in new construction;
  (E) requirements for the recycling and reuse of water by all newly
  constructed commercial laundries and vehicle wash facilities;
  (F) requirements for soil preparation prior to the installation or seeding
  of turf grass in new residential and commercial construction;
  (G) requirements for the insulation of hot water pipes in all new
  construction;
  (H) requirements for the installation of water recycling or reuse systems
  on any newly installed commercial and industrial water-operative air
  conditioning and refrigeration systems;
  (I) standards governing the sale, installation, and removal of
  self-regenerating water softeners, including the identification of public
  water supply system service areas where such devices are prohibited,
  and the establishment of standards for the control of regeneration in all
  newly installed devices; and
  (J) elimination of evaporation as a principal method of wastewater treatment.
  (3) Any water conserved by implementation of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C),
  (D), or (F) of paragraph (2) shall not be credited to the conservation
  goal specified under subparagraph (b)(1)(A). All other water conserved
  after January 1, 1992, by a conservation measure which is placed on the
  active inventory shall be credited to the conservation goal specified
  under subparagraph (b)(1)(A).
  (4) The Governor may waive the applicability of paragraphs (2)(D) through
  (2)(H) above to any petitioner of project water that provides water entirely
  for irrigation use.
  (5) Within three years of the date of enactment of this Act, the board
  shall transmit to the Governor and the Secretary the recommended standards
  and regulations referred to in subparagraph (f)(2) in such form as, in the
  judgment of the board, will be most likely to be promulgated within four
  years of the date of enactment of this Act, and the failure of the board
  to do so shall be deemed substantial noncompliance.
  (6) Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to authorize the Secretary,
  or grant new authority to the District or petitioners of project water,
  to require the implementation of any standards or regulations recommended
  by the Utah Water Conservation Advisory Board.
  (g) COMPLIANCE- (1) Notwithstanding subsections (c)(5), (d)(3) or (f)(6), if
  the Secretary after ninety days written notice to the District, determines
  that the plan referred to in subsection (b) has not been developed and
  implemented or the studies referred to in subsections (c) and (d) have
  not been completed or transmitted as provided for in this section, the
  District shall pay a surcharge for each year of substantial noncompliance
  as determined by the Secretary. The amount of the surcharge shall be--
  (A) for the first year of substantial noncompliance, five percent of the
  District's annual Bonneville Unit repayment obligation to the Secretary;
  (B) for the second year of substantial noncompliance, ten percent of the
  District's annual Bonneville Unit repayment obligation to the Secretary; and
  (C) for the third year of substantial noncompliance and any succeeding
  year of substantial noncompliance, fifteen percent of the District's annual
  Bonneville Unit repayment obligation to the Secretary.
  (2) If the Secretary determines that compliance has been accomplished within
  twelve months after the first determination of substantial noncompliance,
  the Secretary shall refund 100 percent of the surcharge levied.
  (h) RECLAMATION REFORM ACT OF 1982- Compliance with this section shall be
  deemed as compliance with section 210 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982
  (96 Stat. 1268; 43 U.S.C. 390jj) by the District and each petitioner of
  project water.
  (i) JUDICIAL REVIEW- (1) For the purposes of sections 701 through 706 of
  title 5 (U.S.C.), the determinations made by the Secretary under subsections
  (b), (f)(1) or (g) shall be final actions subject to judicial review.
  (2) The record upon review of such final actions shall be limited to the
  administrative record compiled in accordance with sections 701 through
  706 of title 5 (U.S.C.). Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
  require a hearing pursuant to sections 554, 556, or 557 of title 5 (U.S.C.).
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to preclude judicial
  review of other final actions and decisions by the Secretary.
  (j) CITIZEN SUITS- (1) IN GENERAL- Any person may commence a civil suit
  on their own behalf against only the Secretary for any determination made
  by the Secretary under this section which is alleged to have violated,
  is violating, or is about to violate any provision of this section or
  determination made under this section.
  (2) JURISDICTION AND VENUE- The district courts shall have jurisdiction
  to prohibit any violation by the Secretary of this section, to compel
  any action required by this section, and to issue any other order to
  further the purposes of this section. An action under this subsection may
  be brought in the judicial district where the alleged violation occurred
  or is about to occur, where fish, wildlife, or recreation resources are
  located, or in the District of Columbia.
  (3) LIMITATIONS- (A) No action may be commenced under paragraph (1)
  before sixty days after written notice of the violation has been given to
  the Secretary.
  (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), an action may be brought immediately
  after such notification in the case of an action under this section
  respecting an emergency posing a significant risk to the well-being of
  any species of fish or wildlife.
  (C) Subparagraph (A) is intended to provide reasonable notice where possible
  and not to affect the jurisdiction of the courts.
  (4) COSTS AWARDED BY THE COURT- The court may award costs of litigation
  (including reasonable attorney and expert witness fees and expenses) to
  any party, other than the United States, whenever the court determines
  such award is appropriate.
  (5) DISCLAIMER- The relief provided by this subsection shall not restrict
  any right which any person (or class of persons) may have under any statute
  or common law to seek enforcement of any standard or limitation or to seek
  any other relief.
  (k) PRESERVATION OF STATE LAW- Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
  preempt or supersede State law.
SEC. 208. LIMITATION ON HYDROPOWER OPERATIONS.
  (a) LIMITATION- Power generation facilities associated with the Central
  Utah Project and other features specified in titles II through V of this
  Act shall be operated and developed in accordance with the Act of April 11,
  1956 (70 Stat. 109; 43 U.S.C. 620f).
  (b) COLORADO RIVER BASIN WATERS- Use of Central Utah Project water diverted
  out of the Colorado River Basin for power purposes shall only be incidental
  to the delivery of water for other authorized project purposes. Diversion of
  such waters out of the Colorado River Basin exclusively for power purposes
  in prohibited.
SEC. 209. OPERATING AGREEMENTS.
  The District, in consultation with the Commission and the Utah Division of
  Water Rights, shall apply its best efforts to achieve operating agreements
  for the Jordanelle Reservoir, Deer Creek Reservoir, Utah Lake and Strawberry
  Reservoir within two years of the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 210. JORDAN AQUEDUCT PREPAYMENT.
  Under such terms as the Secretary may prescribe, and within one year of the
  date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall allow for the prepayment,
  or shall otherwise dispose of, repayment contracts entered into among the
  United States, the District, the Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake
  City, and the Salt Lake County Water Conservancy District, dated May 16,
  1986, providing for repayment of the Jordan Aqueduct System. In carrying
  out this section, the Secretary shall take such actions as he deems
  appropriate to accommodate, effectuate, and otherwise protect the rights
  and obligations of the United States and the obligors under the contracts
  executed to provide for payment of such repayment contracts.
SEC. 211. AUDIT OF CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COST ALLOCATIONS.
  Not later than one year after the date on which the Secretary declares the
  Central Utah Project to be substantially complete, the Comptroller General
  of the United States shall conduct an audit of the allocation of costs of
  the Central Utah Project to irrigation, municipal and industrial, and other
  project purposes and submit a report of such audit to the Secretary and to
  the Congress. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with regulations
  which the Comptroller General shall prescribe not later than one year
  after the date of enactment of this Act. Upon a review of such report,
  the Secretary shall reallocate such costs as may be necessary. Any amount
  allocated to municipal and industrial water in excess of the total maximum
  repayment obligation contained in repayment contracts dated December 28,
  1965, and November 26, 1985, shall be deferred for as long as the District
  is not found to be in substantial noncompliance with the water management
  improvement program provided in section 207 and the stream flows provided
  in title III are maintained. If at any time the Secretary finds that such
  program is in substantial noncompliance or that such stream flows are not
  being maintained, the Secretary shall, within six months of such finding
  and after public notice, take action to initiate repayment of all such
  reimbursable costs.
SEC. 212. SURPLUS CROPS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law relating to a charge for
  irrigation water supplied to surplus crops, until the construction costs
  of the facilities authorized by this title are repaid, the Secretary is
  directed to charge a surplus crop production charge equal to 10 percent of
  full cost, as defined in section 202 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982
  (43 U.S.C. 390bb), for the delivery of project water used in the production
  of any crop of an agricultural commodity for which an acreage reduction
  program is in effect under the provision of the Agricultural Act of 1949,
  as amended, if the total supply of such commodity for the marketing years
  in which the bulk of the crop would normally be marketed is in excess
  of the normal supply as determined by the Secretary of Agriculture. The
  Secretary of the Interior shall announce the amount of the surplus crop
  production charge for the succeeding year on or before July 1 of each year.
TITLE III--FISH, WILDLIFE, AND RECREATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION
SEC. 301. UTAH RECLAMATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION COMMISSION.
  (a) PURPOSE- (1) The purpose of this section is to provide for the
  prompt establishment of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation
  Commission in order to coordinate the implementation of the mitigation
  and conservation provisions of this Act among the Federal and State fish,
  wildlife, and recreation agencies.
  (2) This section, together with applicable environmental laws and the
  provisions of other laws applicable to mitigation, conservation  and
  enhancement of fish, wildlife, and recreation resources within the State,
  are all intended to be construed in a consistent manner. Nothing herein is
  intended to limit or restrict the authorities or opportunities of Federal,
  State, or local governments, or political subdivisions thereof, to plan,
  develop, or implement mitigation, conservation, or enhancement of fish,
  wildlife, and recreation resources in the State in accordance with other
  applicable provisions of Federal or State law.
  (b) ESTABLISHMENT- (1) There is established a commission to be known as
  the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
  (2) The Commission shall expire twenty years from the end of the fiscal
  year during which the Secretary declares the Central Utah Project to be
  substantially complete. The Secretary shall not declare the project to
  be substantially complete at least until such time as the mitigation and
  conservation projects and features provided for in section 315 have been
  completed in accordance with the fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation
  and conservation schedule specified therein.
  (c) DUTIES- The Commission shall--
  (1) formulate the policies and objectives for the implementation of the
  fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation and conservation projects and
  features authorized in this Act;
  (2) administer in accordance with subsection (f) the expenditure of funds
  for the implementation of the fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation
  and conservation projects and features authorized in this Act;
  (3) be considered a Federal agency for purposes of compliance with the
  requirements of all Federal fish, wildlife, recreation, and environmental
  laws, including (but not limited to) the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act,
  the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.),
  and the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
  (4) develop, adopt, and submit plans and reports of its activities in
  accordance with subsection (g).
  (d) MEMBERSHIP- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 5 members appointed
  by the President within six months of the date of enactment of this Act,
  as follows:
  (A) 1 from a list of residents of the State, who are qualified to serve
  on the Commission by virtue of their training or experience in fish or
  wildlife matters or environmental conservation matters, submitted by the
  Speaker of the House of Representatives upon the recommendation of the
  members of the House of Representatives representing the State.
  (B) 1 from a list of residents of the State, who are qualified to serve
  on the Commission by virtue of their training or experience in fish or
  wildlife matters or environmental conservation matters, submitted by the
  Majority Leader of the Senate upon the recommendation of the members of
  the Senate representing the State.
  (C) 1 from a list of residents of the State submitted by the Governor of
  the State composed of State wildlife resource agency personnel.
  (D) 1 from a list of residents of the State submitted by the District.
  (E) 1 from a list of residents of the State, who are qualified to serve
  on the Commission by virtue of their training or experience in fish and
  wildlife matters or environmental conservation matters and have been
  recommended by Utah nonprofit sportsmen's or environmental organizations,
  submitted by the Governor of the State.
  (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), members shall be appointed
  for terms of four years.
  (B) Of the members first appointed--
  (i) the member appointed under paragraph (1)(C) shall be appointed for a
  term of three years; and
  (ii) the member appointed under paragraph (1)(D) shall be appointed for
  a term of two years.
  (3) A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled within ninety days and in
  the manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed
  to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which
  his predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder
  of such term. A member may serve after the expiration of his term until
  his successor has taken office.
  (4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), members of the Commission
  shall each be paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the maximum
  of the annual rate of basic pay in effect for grade GS-15 of the General
  Schedule for each day (including travel time) during which they are engaged
  in the actual performance of duties vested in the Commission.
  (B) Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees of
  the United States or the State of Utah shall receive no additional pay by
  reason of their service on the Commission.
  (5) Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum but a lesser
  number may hold public meetings authorized by the Commission.
  (6) The Chairman of the Commission shall be elected by the members of the
  Commission. The term of office of the Chairman shall be one year.
  (7) The Commission shall meet at least quarterly and may meet at the call
  of the Chairman or a majority of its members.
  (e) DIRECTOR AND STAFF OF COMMISSION; USE OF CONSULTANTS- (1) The Commission
  shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the Commission and who shall
  be paid at a rate not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay payable for
  GS-15 of the General Schedule.
  (2) With the approval of the Commission, the Director may appoint and
  fix the pay of such personnel as the Director considers appropriate. Such
  personnel may be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5,
  United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and
  may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter
  III of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General
  Schedule pay rates.
  (3) With the approval of the Commission, the Director may procure temporary
  and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5 of the United
  States Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent
  of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 of the General
  Schedule.
  (4) Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency is
  authorized to detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of
  such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in carrying out
  its duties under this Act.
  (5) Any member or agent of the Commission may, if so authorized by the
  Commission, take any action which the Commission is authorized to take by
  this section.
  (6) In times of emergency, as defined by rule by the Commission, the
  Director may exercise the full powers of the Commission until such times
  as the emergency ends or the Commission meets in formal session.
  (f) IMPLEMENTATION OF MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION MEASURES- (1) The
  Commission shall administer the mitigation and conservation funds available
  under this Act to conserve, mitigate, and enhance fish, wildlife, and
  recreation resources affected by the development and operation of Federal
  reclamation projects in the State of Utah. Such funds shall be administered
  in accordance with this section, the mitigation and conservation schedule
  in section 315 of this Act, and, if in existence, the applicable five-year
  plan adopted pursuant to subsection (g). Expenditures of the Commission
  pursuant to this section shall be in addition to, not in lieu of, other
  expenditures authorized or required from other entities under other
  agreements or provisions of law.
  (2) REALLOCATION OF SECTION 8 FUNDS- Notwithstanding any provision of this
  act which provides that a specified amount of section 8 funds available under
  this Act shall be available only for a certain purpose, if the Commission
  determines, after public involvement and agency consultation as provided in
  subsection (g)(3), that the benefits to fish, wildlife, or recreation will
  be better served by allocating such funds in a different manner, then the
  Commission may reallocate any amount so specified to achieve such benefits:
  Provided, however, That the Commission shall obtain the prior approval of
  the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for any reallocation from fish
  or wildlife purposes to recreation purposes of any of the funds authorized
  in the schedule in section 315.
  (3) FUNDING FOR NEPA COMPLIANCE- The Commission shall annually provide
  funding on a priority basis for environmental mitigation measures adopted
  as a result of compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of
  1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for project features constructed pursuant
  to titles II and III of this Act.
  (4) CONTRACTING AUTHORITY- The Commission shall, for the purpose of
  carrying out this Act, enter into and perform such contracts, leases,
  grants, cooperative agreements, or other similar transactions, including the
  amendment, modification, or cancellation thereof and make the compromise
  or final settlement of any claim arising thereunder, with universities,
  non-profit organizations, and the appropriate public natural resource
  management agency or agencies, upon such terms and conditions and in such
  manner as the Commission may deem to be necessary or appropriate, for the
  implementation of the mitigation and conservation projects and features
  authorized in this Act, including actions necessary for compliance with
  the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
  (g) PLANNING AND REPORTING- (1) Beginning with the first fiscal year
  after all members of the Commission are appointed initially, and every
  five years thereafter, the Commission shall develop and adopt by March
  31 a plan for carrying out its duties during each succeeding five-year
  period. Each such plan shall consist of the specific objectives and measures
  the Commission intends to administer under subsection (f) during the plan
  period to implement the mitigation and conservation projects and features
  authorized in this Act.
  (2) FINAL PLAN- Within six months prior to the expiration of the Commission
  pursuant to this Act, the Commission shall develop and adopt a plan
  which shall--
  (A) establish goals and measurable objectives for the mitigation and
  conservation of fish, wildlife, and recreation resources during the
  five-year period following such expiration; and
  (B) recommend specific measures for the expenditure of funds from the
  Account established under section 402 of this Act.
  (3) PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT AND AGENCY CONSULTATION- (A) Promptly after the
  Commission is established under this section, and in each succeeding
  fiscal year, the Commission shall request in writing from the Federal
  and State fish, wildlife, recreation, and water management agencies, the
  appropriate Indian tribes, and county and municipal entities, and the public,
  recommendations for  objectives and measures to implement the mitigation
  and conservation projects and features authorized in this Act or amendments
  thereto. The Commission shall establish by rule a period of time not less
  than ninety days in length within which to receive such recommendations,
  as well as the format for and the information and supporting data that is
  to accompany such recommendations.
  (B) The Commission shall give notice of all recommendations and shall
  make the recommendations and supporting documents available to the Federal
  and State fish, wildlife, recreation, and water management agencies, the
  appropriate Indian tribes, and the public. Copies of such recommendations
  and supporting documents shall be made available for review at the offices
  of the Commission and shall be available for reproduction at reasonable cost.
  (C) The Commission shall provide for public involvement regarding the
  recommendations and supporting documents within such reasonable time as
  the Commission by rule deems appropriate.
  (4) The Commission shall develop and amend the plans on the basis of such
  recommendations, supporting documents, and views and information obtained
  through public involvement and agency consultation. The Commission shall
  include in the plans measures which it determines, on the basis set forth
  in paragraph (f)(1), will--
  (A) restore, maintain, or enhance the biological productivity and diversity
  of natural ecosystems within the State and have substantial potential
  for providing fish, wildlife, and recreation mitigation and conservation
  opportunities;
  (B) be based on, and supported by, the best available scientific knowledge;
  (C) utilize, where equally effective alternative means of achieving the
  same sound biological or recreational objectives exist, the alternative
  that will also provide public benefits through multiple resource uses;
  (D) complement the existing and future activities of the Federal and State
  fish, wildlife, and recreation agencies and appropriate Indian tribes;
  (E) utilize, when available, cooperative agreements and partnerships with
  private landowners and nonprofit conservation organizations; and
  (F) be consistent with the legal rights of appropriate Indian tribes.
Enhancement measures may be included in the plans to the extent such measures
are designed to achieve improved conservation or mitigation of resources.
  (5) AGENCY CONSULTATION- Commission plans developed in accordance with
  this subsection, or implemented under subsection (f), that affect National
  Forest System lands shall be developed and implemented in consultation
  with the Secretary of Agriculture.
  (6) REPORTING- (A) Beginning on December 1 of the first fiscal year
  in which all members of the Commission are appointed initially, the
  Commission shall submit annually a detailed report to the Committee on
  Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, to the Committees on Interior
  and Insular Affairs and on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of
  Representatives, to the Secretary, and to the Governor of the State. The
  report shall describe the actions taken and to be taken by the Commission
  under this section, the effectiveness of the mitigation and conservation
  measures implemented to date, and potential revisions or modifications to
  the applicable mitigation and conservation plan.
  (B) At least sixty days prior to its submission of such report, the
  Commission shall make a draft of such report available to the Federal
  and State fish, wildlife, recreation, and water management agencies, the
  appropriate Indian tribes, and the public, and establish procedures for
  timely comments thereon. The Commission shall include a summary of such
  comments as an appendix to such report.
  (h) DISCRETIONARY DUTIES AND POWERS- In addition to any other duties and
  powers provided by law--
  (1) The Commission may depart from the fish, wildlife, and recreation
  mitigation and conservation schedule specified in section 315 whenever the
  Commission determines, after public involvement and agency consultation as
  provided for in this Act, that such departure would be of greater benefit
  to fish, wildlife, or recreation: Provided, however, That the Commission
  shall obtain the prior approval of the United States Fish and Wildlife
  Service for any reallocation from fish or wildlife purposes to recreation
  purposes of any of the funds authorized in the schedule in section 315.
  (2) The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this Act--
  (A) hold such public meetings, sit and act at such times and places, take
  such testimony, and receive such evidence, as a majority of the Commission
  considers appropriate; and
  (B) meet jointly with other Federal or State authorities to consider
  matters of mutual interest.
  (3) The Commission may secure directly from any department or agency of
  the United States information necessary to enable it to carry out this
  Act. Upon request of the Director of the Commission, the head of such
  department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission. At
  the discretion of the department or agency, such information may be provided
  on a reimbursable basis.
  (4) The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of appropriations, gifts or
  grants of money or other property, or donations of services, from whatever
  source, only to carry out the purposes of this Act.
  (5) The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner
  and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the
  United States.
  (6) The Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission on
  a reimbursable basis such administrative support services as the Commission
  may request.
  (7) The Commission may acquire and dispose of personal and real property
  and water rights, and interests therein, through donation, purchase on a
  willing seller basis, sale, or lease, but not through direct exercise of
  the power of eminent domain, in order to carry out the purposes of this
  Act. This provision shall not affect any existing authorities of other
  agencies to carry out the purposes of this Act.
  (8) The Commission may make such expenditures for offices, vehicles,
  furnishings, equipment, supplies, and books; for travel, training, and
  attendance at meetings; and for such other facilities and services as may
  be necessary for the administration of this Act.
  (9) The Commission shall not participate in litigation, except litigation
  pursuant to subsection (l) or condemnation proceedings initiated by other
  agencies.
  (i) FUNDING- (1) Amounts appropriated to the Secretary for the Commission
  shall be paid to the Commission immediately upon receipt of such funds by
  the Secretary. The Commission shall expend such funds in accordance with
  this Act.
  (2) For each fiscal year, the Commission is authorized to use for
  administrative expenses an amount equal to 10 percent of the amounts
  available to the Commission pursuant to this Act during such fiscal year,
  but not to exceed $1,000,000. Such amount shall be increased by the same
  proportion as the  contributions to the Account under section 402(b)(3)(C).
  (j) AVAILABILITY OF UNEXPENDED AMOUNTS UPON COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION
  PROJECTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, upon the completion
  of any project authorized under this title, Federal funds appropriated
  for that project but not obligated or expended shall be deposited in the
  Account pursuant to section 402(b)(4)(D) and shall be available to the
  Commission in accordance with section 402(c)(2).
  (k) TRANSFER OF PROPERTY AND AUTHORITY HELD BY THE COMMISSION- Except as
  provided in section 402(b)(4)(A), upon the termination of the Commission
  in accordance with subsection (b)--
  (1) the duties of the Commission shall be performed by the Utah Division
  of Wildlife Resources, which shall exercise such authority in consultation
  with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the District, the Bureau,
  and the Forest Service; and
  (2) title to any real and personal properties then held by the Commission
  shall be transferred to the appropriate division within Utah Department of
  Natural Resources or, for such parcels of real property as may be within
  the boundaries of Federal land ownerships, to the appropriate Federal agency.
  (l) REPRESENTATION BY ATTORNEY GENERAL- The Attorney General of the
  United States shall represent the Commission in any litigation to which
  the Commission is a party.
  (m) CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT- The activities of the Commission shall be
  subject to oversight by the Congress.
  (n) TERMINATION OF BUREAU ACTIVITIES- Upon appointment of the Commission
  as provided in subsection (b), the responsibility for implementing section
  8 funds for mitigation and conservation projects and features authorized
  in this Act shall be transferred from the Bureau to the Commission.
SEC. 302. INCREASED PROJECT WATER CAPABILITY.
  (a) ACQUISITION- The District shall acquire, on an expedited basis with
  funds to be provided by the Commission in accordance with the schedule
  specified in section 315, by purchase from willing sellers or exchange,
  twenty-five thousand acre-feet of water rights in the Utah Lake drainage
  basin to achieve the purposes of this section. Water purchases which
  would have the effect of compromising groundwater resources or dewatering
  agricultural lands in the Upper Provo River areas should be avoided. Of
  the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $15,000,000
  shall be available only for the purposes of this subsection.
  (b) NONCONSUMPTIVE RIGHTS- A nonconsumptive right in perpetuity to any water
  acquired under this section shall be tendered in accordance with the laws
  of the State of Utah within thirty days of its acquisition by the District
  to the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources for the purposes of maintaining
  instream flows provided for in section 303(c)(3) and 303(c)(4) for fish,
  wildlife, and recreation in the Provo River.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Of the amounts authorized to be
  appropriated by section 201, $4,000,000 shall be available only to modify
  existing or construct new diversion structures on the Provo River below
  the Murdock diversion to facilitate the purposes of this section.
SEC. 303. STREAM FLOWS.
  (a) STREAM FLOW AGREEMENT- The District shall annually provide, from
  project water if necessary, amounts of water sufficient to sustain the
  minimum stream flows established pursuant to the Stream Flow Agreement.
  (b) INCREASED FLOWS IN THE UPPER STRAWBERRY RIVER TRIBUTARIES- (1) the
  District shall acquire, on an expedited basis with funds to be provided
  by the Commission, or by the Secretary in the event the Commission has
  not been established, in accordance with State law, the provisions of this
  section, and the schedule specified in section 315, all of the Strawberry
  basin water rights being diverted to the Heber Valley through the Daniels
  Creek drainage and shall apply such rights to increase minimum stream flows--
  (A) in the upper Strawberry River and other tributaries to the Strawberry
  Reservoir;
  (B) in the lower Strawberry River from the base of Soldier Creek Dam to
  Starvation Reservoir; and
  (C) in other streams within the Uinta basin affected by the Strawberry
  Collection System in such a manner as deemed by the Commission in
  consultation with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and the Utah
  State Division of Wildlife Resources to be in the best interest of fish
  and wildlife.
The Commission's decision under subparagraph (C) shall not establish a
statutory or otherwise mandatory minimum stream flow.
  (2) The District may acquire the water rights identified in paragraph (1)
  prior to completion of the facilities identified in paragraph (3) only by
  lease and for a period not to exceed two years from willing sellers or by
  replacement or exchange of water in kind. Such leases may be extended for
  one additional year with the consent of Wasatch and Utah counties. The
  District shall proceed to fulfill the purposes of this subsection on an
  expedited basis but may not lease water from the Daniels Creek Irrigation
  Company before the beginning of fiscal year 1993.
  (3)(A) The District shall construct with funds provided for in paragraph
  (4) a Daniels Creek replacement pipeline from the Jordanelle Reservoir to
  the existing Daniels Creek Irrigation Company Water storage facility for
  the purpose of providing a permanent replacement of water in an amount
  equal to the Strawberry basin water being supplied by the District for
  stream flows provided in paragraph (1) which would otherwise have been
  diverted to the Daniels Creek drainage.
  (B) Such Daniels Creek replacement water may be exchanged by the District
  in accordance with State law with the Strawberry basin water identified
  above to provide a permanent supply of water for minimum flows provided
  in paragraph (1). Any such permanent replacement water so exchanged into
  the Strawberry basin by the District shall be tendered in accordance with
  State law within thirty days of its exchange by the District to the Utah
  Division of Wildlife Resources for the purposes of providing stream flows
  under paragraph (1).
  (C) The Daniels Creek replacement water to be supplied by the District
  shall be at least equal in quality and reliability to the Daniels Creek
  water being replaced and shall be provided by the District at a cost to
  the Daniels Creek Irrigation Company which does not exceed the cost of
  supplying existing water deliveries (including operation and maintenance)
  through the Daniels Creek diversion.
  (4) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $10,500,000
  shall be available to fulfill the purposes of this section as follows:
  (A) $500,000 for leasing of water pursuant to paragraph (2).
  (B) $10,000,000 for construction of the Daniels Creek replacement pipeline.
  (C) Funds provided by this paragraph shall not be subject to the requirements
  of section 204 and shall be included in the final cost allocation provided
  for in section 211; except that not less than $3,500,000 shall be treated
  as an expense under section 8, and $7,000,000 shall be treated as an expense
  under section 5 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (70 Stat. 110; 43 U.S.C. 105).
  (D) Funds provided for the Daniels Creek replacement pipeline may be expended
  so as to integrate such pipeline with the Wasatch County conservation
  measures provided for in section 207(e)(2) and the Wasatch County Water
  Efficiency Project authorized in section 202(a)(3).
  (c) STREAM FLOWS IN THE BONNEVILLE UNIT- The yield and operating plans
  for the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project shall be established or
  adjusted to provide for the following minimum stream flows, which flows shall
  be provided continuously and in perpetuity from the date first feasible,
  as determined by the Commission in consultation with the United States
  Fish and Wildlife Service and the Utah State Division of Wildlife Resources:
  (1) In the Diamond Fork River drainage subsequent to completion of the
  Monks Hollow Dam or other structure that rediverts water from the Diamond
  Fork River Drainage into the Diamond Fork component of the Bonneville Unit
  of the Central Utah Project--
  (A) in Sixth Water Creek, from the exit of Strawberry Valley Tunnel to
  the Last Chance Powerplant and Switchyard, not less than thirty-two cubic
  feet per second during the months of May through October and not less than
  twenty-five cubic feet per second during the months of November through
  April, and
  (B) in the Diamond Fork River, from the bottom of the Monks Hollow Dam to
  the Spanish Fork River, not less than eighty cubic feet per second during
  the months of May through September and not less than sixty cubic feet
  per second during the months of October through April, which flows shall
  be provided by the Bonneville Unit of the Central Utah Project.
  (2) In the Provo River from the base of Jordanelle Dam to Deer Creek
  Reservoir a minimum of one hundred and twenty-five cubic feet per second.
  (3) In the Provo River from the confluence of Deer Creek and the Provo River
  to the Olmsted Diversion a minimum of one hundred cubic feet per second.
  (4) Upon the acquisition of the water rights in the Provo Drainage identified
  in section 302, in the Provo River from the Olmsted Diversion to Utah Lake,
  a minimum of seventy-five cubic feet per second.
  (5) In the Strawberry River, from the base of Starvation Dam to the
  confluence with the Duchesne River, a minimum of fifteen cubic feet
  per second.
  (d) MITIGATION OF EXCESSIVE FLOWS IN THE PROVO RIVER- The District shall,
  with public involvement, prepare and conduct a study and develop a plan to
  mitigate the effects of peak season flows in the Provo River. Such study
  and plan shall be developed in consultation with the Fish and Wildlife
  Service, the Utah Division of Water Rights, the Utah Division of Wildlife
  Resources, affected water right holders and users, the Commission, and the
  Bureau. The study and plan shall discuss and be based upon, at a minimum,
  all mitigation and conservation opportunities identified through--
  (1) a fishery and recreational use study that addresses anticipated
  peak flows;
  (2) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities possible through
  habitat or stream bed modification;
  (3) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities associated with
  the operating agreements referred to in section 209;
  (4) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities associated with
  the water acquisitions contemplated by section 302;
  (5) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities associated with
  section 202(2);
  (6) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities available in
  connection with water right exchanges; and
  (7) study of the mitigation and conservation opportunities that could be
  achieved by construction of a bypass flowline from the base of Deer Creek
  Reservoir to the Olmsted Diversion.
  (e) EARMARK- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201,
  $500,000 shall be available only for the implementation of subsection (d).
  (f) STRAWBERRY VALLEY TUNNEL- (1) Upon completion of the Diamond Fork
  System, the Strawberry Tunnel shall not be used except for deliveries of
  water for the instream purposes specified in subsection (c). All other
  waters for the Bonneville Unit and Strawberry Valley Reclamation Project
  purposes shall be delivered through the Diamond Fork System.
  (2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply during any time in which the District, in
  consultation with the Commission, has determined that the Syar Tunnel or the
  Sixth Water Aqueduct is rendered unusable or emergency circumstances require
  the use of the Strawberry Valley Tunnel for the delivery of contracted
  Central Utah Project water and Strawberry Valley Reclamation Project water.
SEC. 304. FISH, WILDLIFE, AND RECREATION PROJECTS IDENTIFIED OR PROPOSED IN
THE 1988 DEFINITE PLAN REPORT FOR THE CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT.
  The fish, wildlife, and recreation projects identified or proposed in the
  1988 Definite Plan Report which have not been completed as of the date
  of enactment of this Act shall be completed in accordance with the 1988
  Definite Plan Report and the schedule specified in section 315, unless
  otherwise provided in this Act.
SEC. 305. WILDLIFE LANDS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
  (a) ACQUISITION OF RANGELANDS- In addition to lands acquired on or before
  the date of enactment of this Act and in addition to the acreage to be
  acquired in accordance with the 1988 Definite Plan Report, the Commission
  shall acquire on an expedited basis from willing sellers, in accordance
  with the schedule specified in section 315 and a plan to be developed by
  the Commission, big game winter range lands to compensate for the impacts
  of Federal reclamation projects in Utah. Such lands shall be transferred
  to the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources or, for such parcels as may be
  within the boundaries of Federal land ownerships, to the appropriate Federal
  agency, for management as a big game winter range. In the case of such
  transfers, lands acquired within the boundaries of a national forest shall
  be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a part of the National
  Forest System. Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201,
  $1,300,000 shall be available only for the purposes of this subsection.
  (b)  BIG GAME CROSSINGS AND WILDLIFE ESCAPE RAMPS- In addition to the
  measures to be taken in accordance with the 1988 Definite Plan Report,
  the Commission shall construct big game crossings and wildlife escape
  ramps for the protection of big game animals along the Provo Reservoir
  Canal, Highline Canal, Strawberry Power Canal, and others. Of the amounts
  authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $750,000 shall be available
  only for the purposes of this subsection.
SEC. 306. WETLANDS ACQUISITION, REHABILITATION, AND ENHANCEMENT.
  (a) WETLANDS AROUND THE GREAT SALT LAKE- Of the amounts authorized to
  be appropriated by section 201, $14,000,000 shall be available only for
  the planning and implementation of projects to preserve, rehabilitate,
  and enhance wetland areas around the Great Salt Lake in accordance with
  a plan to be developed by the Commission.
  (b) INVENTORY OF SENSITIVE SPECIES AND ECOSYSTEMS- (1) The Commission shall,
  in cooperation with the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and other
  appropriate State and Federal agencies, inventory, prioritize, and map the
  occurrences in Utah of sensitive nongame wildlife species and their habitats.
  (2) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $750,000
  shall be available only to carry out paragraph (1) of this section.
  (3) The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Utah Department of Natural
  Resources and other appropriate State and Federal agencies, inventory,
  prioritize, and map the occurrences in Utah of sensitive plant species
  and ecosystems.
  (4) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $750,000
  shall be available for the Utah Natural Heritage Program only to carry
  out paragraph (3) of this section.
  (c) UTAH LAKE WETLANDS PRESERVE- (1) The Commission, in consultation with
  the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources and the United States Fish and
  Wildlife Service, shall, in accordance with paragraph (9), acquire private
  land, water rights, conservation easements, or other interests therein,
  necessary for the establishment of a wetlands preserve adjacent to or near
  the Goshen Bay and Benjamin Slough areas of Utah Lake as depicted on a
  map entitled `Utah Lake Wetland Preserve' and dated September 1990. Such
  a map shall be on file and available for inspection in the office of the
  Secretary of the Interior, Washington, District of Columbia.
  (2) The Secretary shall enter into an agreement under which the Wetlands
  Preserve acquired under paragraph (1) shall be managed by the Utah Division
  of Wildlife Resources pursuant to a plan developed in consultation with the
  Secretary and in accordance with this Act and the substantive requirements
  of the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16
  U.S.C. 668dd et seq.).
  (3) The Wetlands Preserve shall be managed for the protection of migratory
  birds, wildlife habitat, and wetland values in a manner compatible with the
  surrounding farmlands, orchards, and agricultural production area. Grazing
  will be allowed for wildlife habitat management purposes in accordance with
  the Act referenced in paragraph (2) and as determined by the Division to
  be compatible with the purposes stated herein.
  (4) Nothing in this subsection shall restrict traditional agricultural
  practices (including the use of pesticides) on adjacent properties not
  included in the preserve by acquisition or easement.
  (5) Nothing in this subsection shall affect existing water rights under
  Utah State law.
  (6) Nothing in this subsection shall grant authority to the Secretary to
  introduce a federally protected species into the wetlands preserve.
  (7) The creation of this preserve shall not in any way interfere with
  the operation of the irrigation and drainage system authorized by section
  202(a)(1).
  (8) All water rights not appurtenant to the lands purchased for the Wetlands
  Preserve acquired under paragraph (1) shall be purchased from the District
  at an amount not to exceed the cost of the District in acquiring such rights.
  (9) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $16,690,000
  shall be available for acquisition of the lands, water rights, and other
  interests therein described in paragraph (1) of this subsection for the
  establishment of the Utah Lake Wetland Preserve.
  (10) Lands, easements, or water rights may not be acquired pursuant to this
  subsection without the consent of the owner of such lands or water rights.
  (11) Base property of a lessee or permittee (and the heirs of such lessee
  or permittee) under a Federal grazing permit or lease held on the date of
  enactment of this Act shall include any land of such lessee or permittee
  acquired by the Commission under this subsection.
  (d) PROVO BAY- In order to protect wetland habitat, the United States
  shall not issue any Federal permit which allows commercial, industrial,
  or residential development on the southern portion of Provo Bay in Utah
  Lake, as described herein and depicted on a map dated October 11, 1990,
  except that recreational development consistent with wildlife habitat
  values shall be permitted. The southern portion of Provo Bay referred to
  in this subsection shall be that area extending two thousand feet out into
  the Bay from the ordinary high water line on the south shore of Provo Bay,
  beginning at a point at the mouth of the Spanish Fork River and extending
  generally eastward along the ordinary high water line to the intersection of
  such line with the Provo City limit, as it existed as of October 10, 1990,
  on the east shore of the Bay. Such a map shall be on file and available
  for inspection in the office of the Secretary of the Interior, Washington,
  District of Columbia. Nothing in this Act shall restrict present or future
  development of the Provo City Airport or airport access roads along the
  north side of Provo Bay.
SEC. 307. FISHERIES ACQUISITION, REHABILITATION, AND ENHANCEMENT.
  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, the following
  amounts shall be in addition to amounts available under the 1988 Definite
  Plan Report and shall be available only for fisheries acquisition,
  rehabilitation, and improvement within the State:
  (1) $750,000 for fish habitat restoration on the Provo River between the
  Jordanelle and Deer Creek Reservoirs.
  (2) $4,000,000 for fish habitat restoration in streams impacted by Federal
  reclamation projects in Utah.
  (3) $1,000,000 for the restoration of tributaries of the Strawberry
  Reservoir to assure trout spawning recruitment.
  (4) $1,500,000 for post-treatment management and fishery development costs
  at the Strawberry Reservoir.
  (5) $1,000,000 for (A) a study to be conducted as directed by the Commission
  to determine the appropriate means for improving Utah Lake as a warm water
  fishery and other related issues; and
  (B) development of facilities and programs to implement management
  objectives.
  (6) $1,000,000 for fish habitat restoration and improvements in the Diamond
  Fork River and Sixth Water Creek drainages.
  (7) $475,000 for the restoration of native cutthroat trout populations in
  streams and lakes in the Bonneville Unit project area.
  (8) $2,500,000 for watershed restoration and improvements, erosion control,
  and wildlife habitat restoration and improvements in the Avintaquin, Red,
  and Currant Creek drainages and other Strawberry River drainages affected
  by the development of Federal reclamation projects in Utah.
SEC. 308. STABILIZATION OF HIGH MOUNTAIN LAKES IN THE UINTA MOUNTAINS.
  (a) REVISION OF PLAN- The project plan for the stabilization of high
  mountain lakes in the Upper Provo River drainage shall be revised to
  require that the following lakes will be stabilized at levels beneficial
  for fish habitat and recreation: Big Elk, Crystal, Duck, Fire, Island,
  Long, Wall, Marjorie, Pot, Star, Teapot, and Weir. Overland access by
  vehicles or equipment for stabilization and irrigation purposes under this
  subsection shall be minimized within the Lakes Management Area boundary,
  as depicted on the map in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest Plan (p. IV-166,
  dated 1987), to a level of practical necessity.
  (b) COSTS OF REHABILITATION- (1) The costs of rehabilitating water storage
  features at Trial, Washington, and Lost Lakes, which are to be used for
  project purposes, shall be borne by the project from amounts made available
  pursuant to section 201. Existing roads may be used for overland access
  to carry out such rehabilitation.
  (2) The costs of stabilizing each of the lakes referred to in subsection
  (a) which is to be used for a purpose other than irrigation shall be
  treated as an expense under section 8.
  (c) FISH AND WILDLIFE HABITAT- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated
  by section 201, $5,000,000 shall be available only for stabilization
  and fish and wildlife habitat restoration in the lakes referred to in
  subsection (a). This amount shall be in addition to the $7,538,000 previously
  authorized for appropriation under section 5 of the Act of April 11, 1956
  (43 U.S.C. 620g) for the stabilization and rehabilitation of the lakes
  described in this section.
SEC. 309. STREAM ACCESS AND RIPARIAN HABITAT DEVELOPMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201,
  the following amounts shall be in addition to amounts available under the
  1988 Definite Plan Report and shall be available only for stream access
  and riparian habitat development in the State:
  (1) $750,000 for rehabilitation of the Provo River riparian habitat
  development between Jordanelle Reservoir and Utah Lake.
  (2) $250,000 for rehabilitation and development of watersheds and riparian
  habitats along Diamond Fork and Sixth Water Creek.
  (3) $350,000 for additional watershed stabilization, terrestrial wildlife
  and riparian habitat improvements, and road closures within the Central
  Utah Project area.
  (4) $8,500,000 for the acquisition of additional recreation and angler
  accesses and riparian habitats, which accesses and habitats shall be
  acquired in accordance with the recommendation of the Commission.
  (b) STUDY OF IMPACT TO WILDLIFE AND RIPARIAN HABITATS WHICH EXPERIENCE
  REDUCED WATER FLOWS AS A RESULT OF THE STRAWBERRY COLLECTION SYSTEM- Of
  the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $400,000 shall
  be available only for the Commission to conduct a study of the impacts
  to soils and riparian fish and wildlife habitat in drainages that will
  experience substantially reduced water flows resulting from the operation
  of the Strawberry Collection System. The study shall identify mitigation
  opportunities that represent alternatives to increasing stream flows and
  make recommendations to the Commission.
SEC. 310. SECTION 8 EXPENSES.
  (a) Unless otherwise expressly provided, all of the amounts authorized to
  be appropriated by this Act and listed in subsection (b) of this section
  shall be treated as expenses under section 8.
  (b) The sections referred to in subsection (a) of this section are as
  follows: title III, and section 402(b)(2).
SEC. 311. JORDAN AND PROVO RIVER PARKWAYS AND NATURAL AREAS.
  (a) FISHERIES- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201,
  $1,150,000 shall be available only for fish habitat improvements to the
  Jordan River.
  (b) RIPARIAN HABITAT REHABILITATION- Of the amounts authorized to be
  appropriated by section 201, $750,000 shall be available only for Jordan
  River riparian habitat rehabilitation, which amount shall be in addition
  to amounts available under the 1988 Definite Plan Report.
  (c) WETLANDS- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201,
  $7,000,000 shall be available only for the acquisition of wetland acreage,
  including those along the Jordan River identified by the multi-agency
  technical committee for the Jordan River Wetlands Advance Identification
  Study.
  (d) RECREATIONAL FACILITIES- (1) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated
  by section 201, $500,000 shall be available only to construct recreational
  facilities within Salt Lake County  proposed by the State of Utah for the
  `Provo/Jordan River Parkway', a description of which is set forth in the
  report to accompany the bill H.R. 429 (S. Rept. 102-267).
  (2) Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, $500,000
  shall be available only to construct recreational facilities within Utah
  and Wasatch Counties proposed by the State of Utah for the `Provo/Jordan
  River Parkway', a description of which is set forth in the report to
  accompany the bill H.R. 429 (S. Rept. 102-267).
  (e) PROVO RIVER CORRIDOR- Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated
  by section 201, $1,000,000 shall be available only for riparian habitat
  acquisition and preservation, stream habitat improvements, and recreation
  and angler access provided on a willing seller basis along the Provo River
  from the Murdock diversion to Utah Lake, as determined by the Commission
  after consultation with local officials.
SEC. 312. RECREATION.
  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, the following
  amounts shall be available to the Commission only for Central Utah Project
  recreation features:
  (a) $2,000,000 for Utah Lake recreational improvements as proposed by the
  State and local governments.
  (b) $750,000 for additional recreation improvements, which shall be made
  in accordance with recommendations made by the Commission, associated
  with Central Utah Project features and affected areas, including camping
  facilities, hiking trails, and signing.
SEC. 313. FISH AND WILDLIFE FEATURES IN THE COLORADO RIVER STORAGE PROJECT.
  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 201, the following
  amounts shall be available only to provide mitigation and restoration of
  watersheds and fish and wildlife resources in Utah impacted by the Colorado
  River Storage Project:
  (a) HABITAT IMPROVEMENTS IN CERTAIN DRAINAGES- $1,125,000 shall be available
  only for watershed and fish and wildlife improvements in the Fremont River
  drainage, which shall be expended in accordance with a plan developed by the
  Commission in consultation with the Wayne County Water Conservancy District.
  (b) SMALL DAMS AND WATERSHED IMPROVEMENTS- $4,000,000 shall be available
  only for land acquisition for the purposes of watershed restoration and
  protection in the Albion Basin in the Wasatch Mountains and for restoration
  and conservation related improvements to small dams and watersheds on State
  of Utah lands and National Forest System lands within the Central Utah
  Project and the Colorado River Storage Project area in Utah, which amounts
  shall be expended in accordance with a plan developed by the Commission.
  (c) FISH HATCHERY PRODUCTION- $22,800,000 shall be available only for the
  planning and implementation of improvements to existing hatchery facilities
  or the construction and development of new fish hatcheries to increase
  production of warmwater and coldwater fishes for the areas affected by the
  Colorado River Storage Project in Utah. Such improvements and construction
  shall be implemented in accordance with a plan identifying the long-term
  needs and management objectives for hatchery production prepared by the
  United States Fish and Wildlife Service, in consultation with the Utah
  Division of Wildlife Resources, and adopted by the Commission. The cost of
  operating and maintaining such new or improved facilities shall be borne
  by the Secretary.
SEC. 314. CONCURRENT MITIGATION APPROPRIATIONS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Secretary is directed
  to allocate funds appropriated for each fiscal year pursuant to titles II
  through IV of this Act as follows:
  (a) Deposit the Federal contribution to the Account authorized in section
  402(b)(2).
  (b) Of any remaining funds, allocate the amounts available for implementation
  of the mitigation and conservation projects and features specified in
  the schedule in section 315 concurrently with amounts available for
  implementation of title II of this Act.
  (c) Of the amounts allocated for implementation of the mitigation and
  conservation projects and features specified in the schedule in section
  315, three percent of the total shall be used by the Secretary to fulfill
  subsections (d) and (e) of this section.
  (d) The Secretary shall use the sums identified in subsection (c) outside
  the State of Utah to:
  (1) restore damaged natural ecosystems on public lands and waterways
  affected by the Federal Reclamation program;
  (2) acquire, from willing sellers only, other lands and properties,
  including water rights, or appropriate interests therein, with restorable
  damaged natural ecosystems, and restore such ecosystems;
  (3) provide jobs and sustainable economic development in a manner that
  carries out the other purposes of this subsection;
  (4) provide expanded recreational opportunities; and
  (5) support and encourage research, training, and education in methods
  and technologies of ecosystem restoration.
  (e) In implementing subsection (d), the Secretary shall give priority
  to restoration and acquisition of lands and properties or appropriate
  interests therein where repair of compositional, structural, and functional
  values will:
  (1) reconstitute natural biological diversity that has been diminished;
  (2) assist the recovery of species populations, communities, and ecosystems
  that are unable to survive on-site without intervention;
  (3) allow reintroduction and reoccupation by native flora and fauna;
  (4) control or eliminate exotic flora and fauna that are damaging natural
  ecosystems;
  (5) restore natural habitat for the recruitment and survival of fish,
  waterfowl, and other wildlife;
  (6) provide additional conservation values to State and local government
  lands;
  (7) add to structural and compositional values of existing ecological
  preserves or enhance the viability, defensibility, and manageability of
  ecological preserves; and
  (8) restore natural hydrological effects including sediment and erosion
  control, drainage, percolation, and other water quality improvement capacity.
SEC. 315. FISH, WILDLIFE, AND RECREATION SCHEDULE.
  The mitigation and conservation projects and features shall be implemented
  in accordance with the following schedule:
FISH, WILDLIFE, AND RECREATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION SCHEDULE
I. BUDGET TO IMPLEMENT ADDITIONAL RECLAMATION MITIGATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                                   Projects
                                                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                                                   Features
                                                                                                                                                                   Appropriations
                                                                                                                                                                   (Thousands
                                                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                                                   1990
                                                                                                                                                                   Dollars)
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                                                                1.a.
                                                                                                                                                Lease
                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                Daniels
                                                                                                                                                Creek
                                                                                                                                                water
                                                                                                                                                rights
                                                                                                                                                $500
                                                                                                                                                $500
                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                $0
b. Acquisition of Daniels Creek water rights to restore Upper Strawberry River
flows and the Daniels Creek replacement pipeline ($3,500,000 shall be treated
as section 8) [Sec. 303(b)] $10,000                                    $10,000
$0      $0
                                                                             2.a.
                                                                             Acquisition
                                                                             of
                                                                             25,000
                                                                             AF
                                                                             on
                                                                             Provo
                                                                             River
                                                                             for
                                                                             streamflows
                                                                             from
                                                                             Murdock
                                                                             Diversion
                                                                             to
                                                                             Utah
                                                                             Lake
                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                             302]
                                                                             $15,000
                                                                             $5,000
                                                                             $5,000
                                                                             5,000
                                                                                 b.
                                                                                 Modify
                                                                                 or
                                                                                 replace
                                                                                 diversion
                                                                                 structures
                                                                                 on
                                                                                 Provo
                                                                                 River
                                                                                 from
                                                                                 Murdock
                                                                                 Diversion
                                                                                 to
                                                                                 Utah
                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                                 302]
                                                                                 $4,000
                                                                                 $500
                                                                                 $1,500
                                                                                 $1,500
                                                                                                       3.
                                                                                                       Study
                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                       mitigation
                                                                                                       plan
                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                       excessive
                                                                                                       flows
                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                       Provo
                                                                                                       River
                                                                                                       [Sec.
                                                                                                       303(d)]
                                                                                                       $500
                                                                                                       $100
                                                                                                       $100
                                                                                                       $100
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $30,000
                                                                                                                                                                                $16,100
                                                                                                                                                                                $6,600
                                                                                                                                                                                $6,600
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                                                                1.a.
                                                                                                                                                Lease
                                                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                                                Daniels
                                                                                                                                                Creek
                                                                                                                                                water
                                                                                                                                                rights
                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                $0
b. Acquisition of Daniels Creek water rights to restore Upper Strawberry River
flows and the Daniels Creek replacement pipeline ($3,500,000 shall be treated
as section 8) [Sec. 303(b)] $0                                              $0
$0
                                                                             2.a.
                                                                             Acquisition
                                                                             of
                                                                             25,000
                                                                             AF
                                                                             on
                                                                             Provo
                                                                             River
                                                                             for
                                                                             streamflows
                                                                             from
                                                                             Murdock
                                                                             Diversion
                                                                             to
                                                                             Utah
                                                                             Lake
                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                             302]
                                                                             $0
                                                                             $0
                                                                             $0
                                                                                b.
                                                                                Modify
                                                                                or
                                                                                replace
                                                                                diversion
                                                                                structures
                                                                                on
                                                                                Provo
                                                                                River
                                                                                from
                                                                                Murdock
                                                                                Diverasion
                                                                                to
                                                                                Utah
                                                                                Lake
                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                302]
                                                                                $500
                                                                                $0
                                                                                $0
                                                                                                       3.
                                                                                                       Study
                                                                                                       and
                                                                                                       mitigation
                                                                                                       plan
                                                                                                       for
                                                                                                       excessive
                                                                                                       flows
                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                       Provo
                                                                                                       River
                                                                                                       [Sec.
                                                                                                       303(d)]
                                                                                                       $100
                                                                                                       $100
                                                                                                       $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $600
                                                                                                                                                                                $100
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                                                                                   1.
                                                                                                                                   Acquisition
                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                   big
                                                                                                                                   game
                                                                                                                                   winter
                                                                                                                                   range
                                                                                                                                   [Sec.
                                                                                                                                   305(a)]
                                                                                                                                   $1,300
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                   $100
                                                                                                                                   $200
                                                2. Construction of big
                                                game crossings and escape
                                                ramps--Provo Res. Canal,
                                                Highline Canal, Strawberry
                                                Power Canal or others
                                                [Sec. 305(b)] $750
                                                $0      $0    $250
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,050
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $100
                                                                                                                                                                                $450
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                                                   1.
                                                                                                                                   Acquisition
                                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                                   big
                                                                                                                                   game
                                                                                                                                   winter
                                                                                                                                   range
                                                                                                                                   [Sec.
                                                                                                                                   305(a)]
                                                                                                                                   $500
                                                                                                                                   $500
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                2. Construction of big
                                                game crossings and escape
                                                ramps--Provo Res. Canal,
                                                Highline Canal, Strawberry
                                                Power Canal or others
                                                [Sec. 305(b)] $250
                                                $250      $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $750
                                                                                                                                                                                $750
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                        1.
                                                                                                        Rehabilitation
                                                                                                        &
                                                                                                        enhancement
                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                        wetlands
                                                                                                        around
                                                                                                        Great
                                                                                                        Salt
                                                                                                        Lake
                                                                                                        [Sec.
                                                                                                        306(a)]
                                                                                                        $14,000
                                                                                                        $1,000
                                                                                                        $2,600
                                                                                                        $2,600
                                                                                                                             2.
                                                                                                                             Wetland
                                                                                                                             acquisition
                                                                                                                             along
                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                             Jordan
                                                                                                                             River
                                                                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                                                                             311(c)]
                                                                                                                             $7,000
                                                                                                                             $300
                                                                                                                             $1,200
                                                                                                                             $1,500
                                                                                                                          3.
                                                                                                                          Inventory
                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                          sensitive
                                                                                                                          species
                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                          ecosystems
                                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                                          306(b)]
                                                                                                                          $1,500
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                          4.
                                                                                          Acquisition
                                                                                          of
                                                                                          lands,
                                                                                          waters,
                                                                                          and
                                                                                          interests
                                                                                          for
                                                                                          Utah
                                                                                          Lake
                                                                                          Wetland
                                                                                          Preserve
                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                          306(c)(9)]
                                                                                          $16,690
                                                                                          $1,690
                                                                                          $3,000
                                                                                          $3,000
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $39,190
                                                                                                                                                                                $3,240
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,050
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,350
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                        1.
                                                                                                        Rehabilitation
                                                                                                        &
                                                                                                        enhancement
                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                        wetlands
                                                                                                        around
                                                                                                        Great
                                                                                                        Salt
                                                                                                        Lake
                                                                                                        [Sec.
                                                                                                        306(a)]
                                                                                                        $2,600
                                                                                                        $2,600
                                                                                                        $2,600
                                                                                                                             2.
                                                                                                                             Wetland
                                                                                                                             acquisition
                                                                                                                             along
                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                             Jordan
                                                                                                                             River
                                                                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                                                                             311(c)]
                                                                                                                             $2,000
                                                                                                                             $2,600
                                                                                                                             $0
                                                                                                                          3.
                                                                                                                          Inventory
                                                                                                                          of
                                                                                                                          sensitive
                                                                                                                          species
                                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                                          ecosystems
                                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                                          306(b)]
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                                                          $250
                                                                                          4.
                                                                                          Acquisition
                                                                                          of
                                                                                          lands,
                                                                                          waters,
                                                                                          and
                                                                                          interests
                                                                                          for
                                                                                          Utah
                                                                                          Lake
                                                                                          Wetland
                                                                                          Preserve
                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                          303(c)(9)]
                                                                                          $3,000
                                                                                          $3,000
                                                                                          $3,000
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,850
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,850
                                                                                                                                                                                $5,850
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                                1.
                                                                                Fish
                                                                                habitat
                                                                                restoration
                                                                                on
                                                                                Provo
                                                                                River
                                                                                between
                                                                                Jordanelle
                                                                                Dam
                                                                                and
                                                                                Deer
                                                                                Creek
                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                307(1)]
                                                                                $750
                                                                                $50
                                                                                $0
                                                                                $100
                                                                                  2.
                                                                                  Fish
                                                                                  habitat
                                                                                  improvements
                                                                                  to
                                                                                  streams
                                                                                  impacted
                                                                                  by
                                                                                  Federal
                                                                                  reclamation
                                                                                  projects
                                                                                  in
                                                                                  Utah
                                                                                  [Sec.
                                                                                  307(2)]
                                                                                  $4,000
                                                                                  $0
                                                                                  $400
                                                                                  $600
                                                                                           3.
                                                                                           Rehabilitation
                                                                                           of
                                                                                           tributaries
                                                                                           to
                                                                                           Strawberry
                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                           for
                                                                                           trout
                                                                                           reproduction
                                                                                           [Sec.
                                                                                           307(3)]
                                                                                           $1,000
                                                                                           $200
                                                                                           $200
                                                                                           $200
                                                                                                         4.
                                                                                                         Strawberry
                                                                                                         Reservoir
                                                                                                         post-treatment
                                                                                                         management
                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                         development
                                                                                                         [Sec.
                                                                                                         307(4)]
                                                                                                         $1,500
                                                                                                         $300
                                                                                                         $300
                                                                                                         $300
                                                                                               5.
                                                                                               Study
                                                                                               and
                                                                                               facilitate
                                                                                               development
                                                                                               to
                                                                                               improve
                                                                                               Utah
                                                                                               Lake
                                                                                               warm-water
                                                                                               fishery
                                                                                               [Sec.
                                                                                               307(5)]
                                                                                               $1,000
                                                                                               $150
                                                                                               $150
                                                                                               $200
                                                                                              6.
                                                                                              Fish
                                                                                              habitat
                                                                                              improvements
                                                                                              to
                                                                                              Diamond
                                                                                              Fork
                                                                                              and
                                                                                              Sixth
                                                                                              Water
                                                                                              Creek
                                                                                              drainages
                                                                                              [Sec.
                                                                                              307(6)]
                                                                                              $1,000
                                                                                              $0
                                                                                              $0
                                                                                              $0
                                                                                                                      7.
                                                                                                                      Restoration
                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                      native
                                                                                                                      cutthroat
                                                                                                                      trout
                                                                                                                      populations
                                                                                                                      [Sec.
                                                                                                                      307(7)]
                                                                                                                      $475
                                                                                                                      $50
                                                                                                                      $50
                                                                                                                      $75
                                                                                                                          8.
                                                                                                                          Fish
                                                                                                                          habitat
                                                                                                                          improvements
                                                                                                                          to
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                          Jordan
                                                                                                                          River
                                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                                          311(a)]
                                                                                                                          $1,150
                                                                                                                          $0
                                                                                                                          $0
                                                                                                                          $100
                                                                                                     9.
                                                                                                     Stabilization
                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                     Upper
                                                                                                     Provo
                                                                                                     River
                                                                                                     reservoirs
                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                     fishery
                                                                                                     improvement
                                                                                                     [Sec.
                                                                                                     308]
                                                                                                     $5,000
                                                                                                     $0
                                                                                                     $0
                                                                                                     $0
                                                                                               10.
                                                                                               Development
                                                                                               of
                                                                                               additional
                                                                                               fish
                                                                                               hatchery
                                                                                               production
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               CRSP
                                                                                               waters
                                                                                               in
                                                                                               Utah
                                                                                               [Sec.
                                                                                               313]
                                                                                               $22,800
                                                                                               $100
                                                                                               $3,500
                                                                                               $4,200
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $38,675
                                                                                                                                                                                $850
                                                                                                                                                                                $4,600
                                                                                                                                                                                $5,775
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                1.
                                                                                Fish
                                                                                habitat
                                                                                restoration
                                                                                on
                                                                                Provo
                                                                                River
                                                                                between
                                                                                Jordanelle
                                                                                Dam
                                                                                and
                                                                                Deer
                                                                                Creek
                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                307(1)]
                                                                                $200
                                                                                $200
                                                                                $200
                                                                                  2.
                                                                                  Fish
                                                                                  habitat
                                                                                  improvements
                                                                                  to
                                                                                  streams
                                                                                  impacted
                                                                                  by
                                                                                  Federal
                                                                                  reclamation
                                                                                  projects
                                                                                  in
                                                                                  Utah
                                                                                  [Sec.
                                                                                  307(2)]
                                                                                  $1,000
                                                                                  $1,000
                                                                                  $1,000
                                                                                           3.
                                                                                           Rehabilitation
                                                                                           of
                                                                                           tributaries
                                                                                           to
                                                                                           Strawberry
                                                                                           Reservoir
                                                                                           for
                                                                                           trout
                                                                                           reproduction
                                                                                           [Sec.
                                                                                           307(3)]
                                                                                           $200
                                                                                           $200
                                                                                           $0
                                                                                                         4.
                                                                                                         Strawberry
                                                                                                         Reservoir
                                                                                                         post-treatment
                                                                                                         management
                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                         development
                                                                                                         [Sec.
                                                                                                         307(4)]
                                                                                                         $300
                                                                                                         $300
                                                                                                         $0
                                                                                                5.
                                                                                                Study
                                                                                                and
                                                                                                facilitate
                                                                                                development
                                                                                                to
                                                                                                improve
                                                                                                Utah
                                                                                                Lake
                                                                                                warmwater
                                                                                                fishery
                                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                                307(5)]
                                                                                                $150
                                                                                                $150
                                                                                                $200
                                                                                              6.
                                                                                              Fish
                                                                                              habitat
                                                                                              improvements
                                                                                              to
                                                                                              Diamond
                                                                                              Fork
                                                                                              and
                                                                                              Sixth
                                                                                              Water
                                                                                              Creek
                                                                                              drainages
                                                                                              [Sec.
                                                                                              307(6)]
                                                                                              $100
                                                                                              $500
                                                                                              $400
                                                                                                                      7.
                                                                                                                      Restoration
                                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                                      native
                                                                                                                      cutthroat
                                                                                                                      trout
                                                                                                                      populations
                                                                                                                      [Sec.
                                                                                                                      307(7)]
                                                                                                                      $100
                                                                                                                      $100
                                                                                                                      $100
                                                                                                                          8.
                                                                                                                          Fish
                                                                                                                          habitat
                                                                                                                          improvements
                                                                                                                          to
                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                          Jordan
                                                                                                                          River
                                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                                          311(a)]
                                                                                                                          $300
                                                                                                                          $400
                                                                                                                          $350
                                                                                                     9.
                                                                                                     Stabilization
                                                                                                     of
                                                                                                     Upper
                                                                                                     Provo
                                                                                                     River
                                                                                                     reservoirs
                                                                                                     for
                                                                                                     fishery
                                                                                                     improvement
                                                                                                     [Sec.
                                                                                                     308]
                                                                                                     $500
                                                                                                     $2,000
                                                                                                     $2,500
                                                                                               10.
                                                                                               Development
                                                                                               of
                                                                                               additional
                                                                                               fish
                                                                                               hatchery
                                                                                               production
                                                                                               for
                                                                                               CRSP
                                                                                               waters
                                                                                               in
                                                                                               Utah
                                                                                               [Sec.
                                                                                               313]
                                                                                               $5,000
                                                                                               $5,000
                                                                                               $5,000
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,850
                                                                                                                                                                                $9,850
                                                                                                                                                                                $9,750
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                              1. Projects for watershed improvement,
                              erosion control, wildlife range improvements
                              in Avintaquin Cr, Red Cr, Currant Cr
                              and other drainages [Sec. 307(8)] $2,500
                              $0    $500    $500
                                                                                                  2.
                                                                                                  Watershed,
                                                                                                  stream
                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                  riparian
                                                                                                  improvements
                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                  Fremont
                                                                                                  River
                                                                                                  drainage
                                                                                                  [Sec.
                                                                                                  313(a)]
                                                                                                  $1,125
                                                                                                  $125
                                                                                                  $200
                                                                                                  $200
                                                                                                          3.
                                                                                                          Small
                                                                                                          dam
                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                          watershed
                                                                                                          improvements
                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          CRSP
                                                                                                          area
                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                          Utah
                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                          313(b)]
                                                                                                          $4,000
                                                                                                          $500
                                                                                                          $700
                                                                                                          $700
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $7,625
                                                                                                                                                                                $625
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                              1. Projects for watershed improvement,
                              erosion control, wildlife range improvements
                              in Avintaquin Cr, Red Cr, Currant Cr
                              and other drainages [Sec. 307(8)] $500
                              $500    $500
                                                                                                  2.
                                                                                                  Watershed,
                                                                                                  stream
                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                  riparian
                                                                                                  improvements
                                                                                                  in
                                                                                                  Fremont
                                                                                                  River
                                                                                                  drainage
                                                                                                  [Sec.
                                                                                                  313(a)]
                                                                                                  $200
                                                                                                  $200
                                                                                                  $200
                                                                                                          3.
                                                                                                          Small
                                                                                                          dam
                                                                                                          and
                                                                                                          watershed
                                                                                                          improvements
                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          CRSP
                                                                                                          area
                                                                                                          in
                                                                                                          Utah
                                                                                                          [Sec.
                                                                                                          313(b)]
                                                                                                          $700
                                                                                                          $700
                                                                                                          $700
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                               1.
                                                                               Rehabilitation
                                                                               of
                                                                               riparian
                                                                               habitat
                                                                               along
                                                                               Provo
                                                                               River
                                                                               from
                                                                               Jordanelle
                                                                               Dam
                                                                               to
                                                                               Utah
                                                                               Lake
                                                                               [Sec.
                                                                               309(a)(1)]
                                                                               $750
                                                                               $0
                                                                               $250
                                                                               $250
                                                                 2. Restoration
                                                                 of watersheds
                                                                 and riparian
                                                                 habitats in
                                                                 the Diamond
                                                                 Fork and Sixth
                                                                 Water Creek
                                                                 drainages
                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                 309(a)(2)]
                                                                 $250
                                                                 $0      $0
                                                                 $50
                                                                                3.
                                                                                Watershed
                                                                                stabilization,
                                                                                terrestrial
                                                                                wildlife
                                                                                habitat
                                                                                improvements
                                                                                and
                                                                                road
                                                                                closures
                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                309(a)(3)]
                                                                                $350
                                                                                $0
                                                                                $0
                                                                                $50
                                                                                    4.
                                                                                    Acquisition
                                                                                    of
                                                                                    angler
                                                                                    and
                                                                                    other
                                                                                    recreational
                                                                                    access,
                                                                                    in
                                                                                    addition
                                                                                    to
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    1988
                                                                                    DPR
                                                                                    [Sec.
                                                                                    309(a)(4)]
                                                                                    $8,500
                                                                                    $500
                                                                                    $1,000
                                                                                    $1,500
                                                                5. Study of
                                                                riparian
                                                                impacts
                                                                caused by CUP
                                                                from reduced
                                                                streamflows,
                                                                and identify
                                                                mitigation
                                                                opportunities
                                                                [Sec. 309(b)]
                                                                $400
                                                                $50     $75
                                                                $75
                                                                                                             6.
                                                                                                             Riparian
                                                                                                             rehabilitation
                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                             development
                                                                                                             along
                                                                                                             Jordan
                                                                                                             River
                                                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                                                             311(b)]
                                                                                                             $750
                                                                                                             $75
                                                                                                             $75
                                                                                                             $150
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $11,000
                                                                                                                                                                                $625
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,400
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,075
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                               1.
                                                                               Rehabilitation
                                                                               of
                                                                               riparian
                                                                               habitat
                                                                               along
                                                                               Provo
                                                                               River
                                                                               from
                                                                               Jordanelle
                                                                               Dam
                                                                               to
                                                                               Utah
                                                                               Lake
                                                                               [Sec.
                                                                               309(a)(1)]
                                                                               $250
                                                                               $0
                                                                               $0
                                                                 2. Restoration
                                                                 of watersheds
                                                                 and riparian
                                                                 habitats in
                                                                 the Diamond
                                                                 Fork and Sixth
                                                                 Water Creek
                                                                 drainages
                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                 309(a)(2)]
                                                                 $100
                                                                 $100      $0
                                                                                3.
                                                                                Watershed
                                                                                stabilization,
                                                                                terrestrial
                                                                                wildlife
                                                                                habitat
                                                                                improvements
                                                                                and
                                                                                road
                                                                                closures
                                                                                [Sec.
                                                                                309(a)(3)]
                                                                                $100
                                                                                $100
                                                                                $100
                                                                                    4.
                                                                                    Acquisition
                                                                                    of
                                                                                    angler
                                                                                    and
                                                                                    other
                                                                                    recreational
                                                                                    access,
                                                                                    in
                                                                                    addition
                                                                                    to
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    1988
                                                                                    DPR
                                                                                    [Sec.
                                                                                    309(a)(4)]
                                                                                    $1,500
                                                                                    $2,000
                                                                                    $2,000
                                                                5. Study of
                                                                riparian
                                                                impacts
                                                                caused by CUP
                                                                from reduced
                                                                streamflows,
                                                                and identify
                                                                mitigation
                                                                opportunities
                                                                [Sec. 309(b)]
                                                                $75
                                                                $75     $50
                                                                                                             6.
                                                                                                             Riparian
                                                                                                             rehabilitation
                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                             development
                                                                                                             along
                                                                                                             Jordan
                                                                                                             River
                                                                                                             [Sec.
                                                                                                             311(b)]
                                                                                                             $150
                                                                                                             $150
                                                                                                             $150
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,175
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,425
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,300
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                                                                                 1.
                                                                                                                                 Recreational
                                                                                                                                 improvements
                                                                                                                                 at
                                                                                                                                 Utah
                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                                                                                 312(a)]
                                                                                                                                 $2,000
                                                                                                                                 $125
                                                                                                                                 $275
                                                                                                                                 $400
                                                                                                            2.
                                                                                                            Recreation
                                                                                                            facilities
                                                                                                            at
                                                                                                            other
                                                                                                            CUP
                                                                                                            features,
                                                                                                            as
                                                                                                            recommended
                                                                                                            [Sec.
                                                                                                            312(b)]
                                                                                                            $750
                                                                                                            $50
                                                                                                            $100
                                                                                                            $150
                                                                                                                                 3.
                                                                                                                                 Provo/Jordan
                                                                                                                                 River
                                                                                                                                 Parkway
                                                                                                                                 Development
                                                                                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                                                                                 311(d)]
                                                                                                                                 $1,000
                                                                                                                                 $0
                                                                                                                                 $75
                                                                                                                                 $75
                                                                                                                                       4.
                                                                                                                                       Provo
                                                                                                                                       River
                                                                                                                                       corridor
                                                                                                                                       development
                                                                                                                                       [Sec.
                                                                                                                                       311(e)]
                                                                                                                                       $1,000
                                                                                                                                       $0
                                                                                                                                       $75
                                                                                                                                       $75
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $4,750
                                                                                                                                                                                $175
                                                                                                                                                                                $525
                                                                                                                                                                                $700
                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                        Additional
                                                                                                                                                                        $133,290
                                                                                                                                                                        $21,615
                                                                                                                                                                        $21,675
                                                                                                                                                                        $24,350
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                                                 1.
                                                                                                                                 Recreational
                                                                                                                                 improvements
                                                                                                                                 at
                                                                                                                                 Utah
                                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                                                                                 312(a)]
                                                                                                                                 $400
                                                                                                                                 $400
                                                                                                                                 $400
                                                                                                            2.
                                                                                                            Recreation
                                                                                                            facilities
                                                                                                            at
                                                                                                            other
                                                                                                            CUP
                                                                                                            features,
                                                                                                            as
                                                                                                            recommended
                                                                                                            [Sec.
                                                                                                            312(b)]
                                                                                                            $150
                                                                                                            $150
                                                                                                            $150
                                                                                                                                 3.
                                                                                                                                 Provo/Jordan
                                                                                                                                 River
                                                                                                                                 Parkway
                                                                                                                                 Development
                                                                                                                                 [Sec.
                                                                                                                                 311(d)]
                                                                                                                                 $200
                                                                                                                                 $300
                                                                                                                                 $350
                                                                                                                                       4.
                                                                                                                                       Provo
                                                                                                                                       River
                                                                                                                                       corridor
                                                                                                                                       development
                                                                                                                                       [Sec.
                                                                                                                                       311(e)]
                                                                                                                                       $200
                                                                                                                                       $300
                                                                                                                                       $350
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $950
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,150
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,250
                                                                                                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                        Additional
                                                                                                                                                                        $21,575
                                                                                                                                                                        $23,525
                                                                                                                                                                        $20,550
                                                                                         1.
                                                                                         Acquire
                                                                                         angler
                                                                                         access
                                                                                         on
                                                                                         about
                                                                                         35
                                                                                         miles
                                                                                         of
                                                                                         streams
                                                                                         identified
                                                                                         in
                                                                                         the
                                                                                         Aquatic
                                                                                         Mitigation
                                                                                         Plan
                                                                                         $2,700
                                                                                         $900
                                                                                         $900
                                                                                         $900
                                                                        2.
                                                                        Construct
                                                                        fish
                                                                        habitat
                                                                        improvements
                                                                        on
                                                                        about
                                                                        70
                                                                        miles
                                                                        of
                                                                        streams
                                                                        as
                                                                        identified
                                                                        in the
                                                                        Aquatic
                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                        Plan
                                                                        $3,990
                                                                        $666
                                                                        $803
                                                                        $790
                                                                                                                  3.
                                                                                                                  Rehabilitation
                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                  Strawberry
                                                                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                  wildlife
                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                  riparian
                                                                                                                  habitats
                                                                                                                  $3,000
                                                                                                                  $600
                                                                                                                  $600
                                                                                                                  $600
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $9,690
                                                                                                                                                                                $3,966
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,403
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,390
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                         1.
                                                                                         Acquire
                                                                                         angler
                                                                                         access
                                                                                         on
                                                                                         about
                                                                                         35
                                                                                         miles
                                                                                         of
                                                                                         streams
                                                                                         identified
                                                                                         in
                                                                                         the
                                                                                         Aquatic
                                                                                         Mitigation
                                                                                         Plan
                                                                                         $0
                                                                                         $0
                                                                                         $0
                                                                        2.
                                                                        Construct
                                                                        fish
                                                                        habitat
                                                                        improvements
                                                                        on
                                                                        about
                                                                        70
                                                                        miles
                                                                        of
                                                                        streams
                                                                        as
                                                                        identified
                                                                        in the
                                                                        Aquatic
                                                                        Mitigation
                                                                        Plan
                                                                        $453
                                                                        $604
                                                                        $674
                                                                                                                  3.
                                                                                                                  Rehabilitation
                                                                                                                  of
                                                                                                                  Strawberry
                                                                                                                  Project
                                                                                                                  wildlife
                                                                                                                  and
                                                                                                                  riparian
                                                                                                                  habitats
                                                                                                                  $600
                                                                                                                  $600
                                                                                                                  $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,053
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,204
                                                                                                                                                                                $674
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                                                                                   1.
                                                                                                                                   Acquire
                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                   develop
                                                                                                                                   782
                                                                                                                                   acres
                                                                                                                                   along
                                                                                                                                   Duchesne
                                                                                                                                   River
                                                                                                                                   $160
                                                                                                                                   $160
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $160
                                                                                                                                                                                $160
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                                                   1.
                                                                                                                                   Acquire
                                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                                   develop
                                                                                                                                   782
                                                                                                                                   acres
                                                                                                                                   along
                                                                                                                                   Duchesne
                                                                                                                                   River
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                         TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY93
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY94
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY95
                                                                                                                1.
                                                                                                                Fence
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                develop
                                                                                                                big
                                                                                                                game
                                                                                                                on
                                                                                                                north
                                                                                                                shoreline
                                                                                                                of
                                                                                                                Jordanelle
                                                                                                                Reservoir
                                                                                                                $226
                                                                                                                $100
                                                                                                                $126
                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                     2.
                                                                                     Acquire
                                                                                     angler
                                                                                     access
                                                                                     to
                                                                                     entire
                                                                                     reach
                                                                                     of
                                                                                     Provo
                                                                                     River
                                                                                     from
                                                                                     Jordanelle
                                                                                     Dam
                                                                                     to
                                                                                     Deer
                                                                                     Creek
                                                                                     Reservoir
                                                                                     $1,050
                                                                                     $525
                                                                                     $525
                                                                                     $0
                                                                                                                   3.
                                                                                                                   Acquire
                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                   develop
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                   acres
                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                   wetland
                                                                                                                   at
                                                                                                                   base
                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                   Jordanelle
                                                                                                                   Dam
                                                                                                                   $900
                                                                                                                   $900
                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $2,176
                                                                                                                                                                                $1,525
                                                                                                                                                                                $651
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                               DPR
                                                                                                                                                                               $12,026
                                                                                                                                                                               $5,651
                                                                                                                                                                               $2,054
                                                                                                                                                                               $1,390
                                                                                                                                                                             Grand
                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                             $145,316
                                                                                                                                                                             $27,266
                                                                                                                                                                             $23,729
                                                                                                                                                                             $25,740
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY96
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY97
                                                                                                                                                                                         FY98
                                                                                                               1.
                                                                                                               Fence
                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                               develop
                                                                                                               big
                                                                                                               game
                                                                                                               on
                                                                                                               north
                                                                                                               shoreline
                                                                                                               of
                                                                                                               Jordanelle
                                                                                                               Reservoir
                                                                                                               $0
                                                                                                               $0
                                                                                                               $0
                                                                                     2.
                                                                                     Acquire
                                                                                     angler
                                                                                     access
                                                                                     to
                                                                                     entire
                                                                                     reach
                                                                                     of
                                                                                     Provo
                                                                                     River
                                                                                     from
                                                                                     Jordanelle
                                                                                     Dam
                                                                                     to
                                                                                     Deer
                                                                                     Creek
                                                                                     Reservoir
                                                                                     $0
                                                                                     $0
                                                                                     $0
                                                                                                                   3.
                                                                                                                   Acquire
                                                                                                                   and
                                                                                                                   develop
                                                                                                                   100
                                                                                                                   acres
                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                   wetland
                                                                                                                   at
                                                                                                                   base
                                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                                   Jordanelle
                                                                                                                   Dam
                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                   $0
                                                                                                                                                                                Subtotal
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                                $0
                                                                                                                                                                               Total
                                                                                                                                                                               DPR
                                                                                                                                                                               $1,053
                                                                                                                                                                               $1,204
                                                                                                                                                                               $674
                                                                                                                                                                             Grand
                                                                                                                                                                             Total
                                                                                                                                                                             $22,628
                                                                                                                                                                             $24,729
                                                                                                                                                                             $21,224
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TITLE IV--UTAH RECLAMATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION ACCOUNT
SEC. 401. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the State of Utah is a State in which one of the largest trans-basin
  water diversions occurs, dewatering important natural areas as a result
  of the Colorado River Storage Project;
  (2) the State of Utah is one of the most ecologically significant States in
  the Nation, and it is therefore important to protect, mitigate, and enhance
  sensitive species and ecosystems through effective long-term mitigation;
  (3) the challenge of mitigating the environmental consequences associated
  with trans-basin water diversions are complex and involve many projects and
  measures (some of which are presently unidentifiable) and the costs for
  which will continue after projects of the Colorado River Storage Project
  in Utah are completed; and
  (4) environmental mitigation associated with the development of the projects
  of the Colorado River Storage Project in the State of Utah are seriously
  in arrears.
  (b) PURPOSES- The purpose of this title is to establish an ongoing account
  to ensure that--
  (1) the level of environmental protection, mitigation, and enhancement
  achieved in connection with projects identified in this Act and elsewhere
  in the Colorado River Storage Project in the State of Utah is preserved
  and maintained;
  (2) resources are available to manage and maintain investments in fish
  and wildlife and recreation features of the projects identified in this
  Act and elsewhere in the Colorado River Storage Project in the State of Utah;
  (3) resources are available to address known environmental impacts of the
  projects identified in this Act and elsewhere in the Colorado River Storage
  Project in the State of Utah for which no funds are being specifically
  authorized for appropriation and earmarked under this Act; and
  (4) resources are available to address presently unknown environmental
  needs and opportunities for enhancement within the areas of the State of
  Utah affected by the projects identified in this Act and elsewhere in the
  Colorado River Storage Project.
SEC. 402. UTAH RECLAMATION MITIGATION AND CONSERVATION ACCOUNT.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established in the Treasury of the
  United States a Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Account
  (hereafter in this title referred to as the `Account'). Amounts in the
  Account shall be available for the purposes set forth in section 401(b).
  (b) DEPOSITS INTO THE ACCOUNT- Amounts shall be deposited into the Account
  as follows:
  (1) STATE CONTRIBUTIONS- In each of fiscal years 1994 through 2001, or until
  the fiscal year in which the project is declared substantially complete,
  whichever occurs first, a voluntary contribution of $3,000,000 from the
  State of Utah.
  (2) FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS- In each of fiscal years 1994 through 2001,
  or until the fiscal year in which the project is declared substantially
  complete, whichever occurs first, $5,000,000 from amounts authorized to
  be appropriated by section 201, which shall be treated as an expense under
  section 8.
  (3) CONTRIBUTIONS FROM PROJECT BENEFICIARIES- (A) In each of fiscal years
  1994 through 2001, or until the fiscal year in which the project is declared
  substantially complete in accordance with this Act, whichever occurs first,
  $750,000 in non-Federal funds from the District.
  (B) $5,000,000 annually by the Secretary of Energy out of funds appropriated
  to the Western Area Power Administration, such expenditures to be considered
  nonreimbursable and nonreturnable.
  (C) The annual contributions described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall
  be increased proportionally on March 1 of each year by the same percentage
  increase during the previous calendar year in the Consumer Price Index
  for urban consumers, published by the Department of Labor.
  (4) INTEREST AND UNEXPENDED FUNDS- (A) Any amount authorized and earmarked
  for fish, wildlife, or recreation expenditures which is appropriated but
  not obligated or expended by the Commission upon its termination under
  section 301.
  (B) All funds annually appropriated to the Secretary for the Commission.
  (C) All interest earned on amounts in the Account.
  (D) Amounts not obligated or expended after the completion of a construction
  project and available pursuant to section 301(j).
  (c) OPERATION OF THE ACCOUNT- (1) All funds deposited as principal in the
  Account shall earn interest in the amount determined by the Secretary of
  the Treasury on the basis of the current average market yield on outstanding
  marketable obligations of the United States of comparable maturities. Such
  interest shall be added to the principal of the Account until completion of
  the projects and features specified in the schedule in section 315. After
  completion of such projects and features, all interest earned on amounts
  remaining in or deposited to the principal of the Account shall be available
  to the Commission pursuant to subsection (c)(2) of this section.
  (2) The Commission is authorized to administer and expend without further
  authorization and appropriation by Congress all sums deposited into the
  Account pursuant to subsections (b)(4)(D), (b)(3)(A), and (b)(3)(B), as
  well as interest not deposited to the principal of the Account pursuant
  to paragraph (1) of this subsection. The Commission may elect to deposit
  funds not expended under subsections (b)(4)(D), (b)(3)(A), and (b)(3)(B)
  into the Account as principal.
  (3) All amounts deposited in the Account pursuant to subsections (b) (1)
  and (2), and any amount deposited as principal under paragraphs (c)(1)
  and (c)(2), shall constitute the principal of the Account. No part of the
  principal amount may be expended for any purpose.
  (d) ADMINISTRATION BY THE UTAH DIVISION OF WILDLIFE RESOURCES- (1) After
  the date on which the Commission terminates under section 301, the Utah
  Division of Wildlife Resources or its successor shall receive--
  (A) all amounts contributed annually to the Account pursuant to section
  402(b)(3)(B); and
  (B) all interest on the principal of the Account, at the beginning of each
  year. The portion of the interest earned on the principal of the Account
  that exceeds the amount required to increase the principal of the Account
  proportionally on March 1 of each year by the percentage increase during
  the previous calendar year in the Consumer Price Index for urban consumers
  published by the Department of Labor, shall be available for expenditure
  by the Division in accordance with this section.
  (2) The funds received by the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources under
  paragraph (1) shall be expended in a manner that fulfills the purposes of
  the Account established under this Act, in consultation with and pursuant
  to, a conservation plan and amendments thereto to be developed by the Utah
  Division of Wildlife Resources, in cooperation with the United States Forest
  Service, the Bureau of Land Management of the Department of the Interior,
  and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
  (3) The funds to be distributed from the Account shall not be applied as
  a substitute for funding which would otherwise be provided or available
  to the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources.
  (e) AUDIT BY INSPECTOR GENERAL- The financial management of the Account
  shall be subject to audit by the Inspector General of the Department of
  the Interior.
TITLE V--UTE INDIAN RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
SEC. 501. FINDINGS.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following--
  (1) the unquantified Federal reserved water rights of the Ute Indian Tribe
  are the subject of existing claims and prospective lawsuits involving
  the United States, the State, and the District and numerous other water
  users in the Uinta Basin. The State and the Tribe negotiated, but did not
  implement, a compact to quantify the Tribe's reserved water rights.
  (2) There are other unresolved Tribal claims arising out of an agreement
  dated September 20, 1965, where the Tribe deferred development of a portion
  of its reserved water rights for 15,242 acres of the Tribe's Group 5 Lands
  in order to facilitate the construction of the Bonneville Unit of the
  Central Utah Project. In exchange the United States undertook to develop
  substitute water for the benefit of the Tribe.
  (3) It was intended that the Central Utah Project, through construction
  of the Upalco and Uintah Units (Initial Phase) and the Ute Indian Unit
  (Ultimate Phase) would provide water for growth in the Uinta Basin and
  for late season irrigation for both the Indians and non-Indian water
  users. However, construction of the Upalco and Uintah Units has not been
  undertaken, in part because the Bureau was unable to find adequate and
  economically feasible reservoir sites. The Ute Indian Unit has not been
  authorized by Congress, and there is no present intent to proceed with
  Ultimate Phase construction.
  (4) Without the implementation of the plans to construct additional storage
  in the Uinta Basin, the water users (both Indian and non-Indian) continue
  to suffer water shortages and resulting economic decline.
  (b) PURPOSE- This Act and the proposed Revised Ute Indian Compact of 1990
  are intended to--
  (1) quantify the Tribe's reserved water rights;
  (2) allow increased beneficial use of such water; and
  (3) put the Tribe in the same economic position it would have enjoyed had the
  features contemplated by the September 20, 1965 Agreement been constructed.
SEC. 502. PROVISIONS FOR PAYMENT TO THE UTE INDIAN TRIBE.
  (a) BONNEVILLE UNIT  TRIBAL CREDITS- (1) Commencing one year after the
  date of enactment of this Act, and continuing for fifty years, the Tribe
  shall receive from the United States 26 percent of the annual Bonneville
  Unit municipal and industrial capital repayment obligation attributable
  to thirty-five thousand five hundred acre-feet of water, which represents
  a portion of the Tribe's water rights that were to be supplied by storage
  from the Central Utah Project, but will not be supplied because the Upalco
  and Uintah units are not to be constructed.
  (2)(A) Commencing in the year 2042, the Tribe  shall collect from the
  District 7 percent of the then fair market value of thirty-five thousand
  five hundred acre-feet of Bonneville Unit agricultural water which has
  been converted  to municipal and industrial water. The fair market value
  of such water shall be recalculated every five  years.
  (B) In the event thirty-five thousand five hundred acre-feet of Bonneville
  Unit  converted agricultural water to municipal and industrial have not
  yet been marketed as of the year 2042, the Tribe shall receive 7 percent
  of the fair market value of the first thirty-five thousand five hundred
  acre-feet of  such water converted to municipal and industrial water. The
  monies received  by the Tribe  under this title shall be utilized by  the
  Tribe for governmental purposes, shall  not be distributed per capita,  and
  shall be used to enhance the educational, social, and economic opportunities
  for the Tribe.
  (b) BONNEVILLE UNIT TRIBAL WATERS- The Secretary is  authorized  to make any
  unused capacity in the Bonneville Unit Strawberry Aqueduct and Collection
  System diversion facilities available  for use by the Tribe. Unused
  capacity  shall constitute capacity, only as available, in excess of
  the needs of the District for delivery of Bonneville Unit water and for
  satisfaction of minimum streamflow obligations established by this Act. In
  the event that the Tribe elects to place water in these components of the
  Bonneville Unit system, the Secretary  and District shall only impose an
  operation and maintenance charge. Such charge shall commence at the time of
  the Tribe's use of such facilities. The operation and maintenance charge
  shall be  prorated on a per acre-foot basis, but shall only include the
  operation and maintenance costs of facilities used by the Tribe and shall
  only apply when the Tribe  elects  to use the facilities. As provided  in
  the Ute Indian Compact, transfers of certain Indian reserved rights water
  to different lands or different uses will be made in accordance with the
  laws of the State of Utah governing change or exchange applications.
  (c) ELECTION TO RETURN TRIBAL WATERS- Notwithstanding the authorization
  provided for in subparagraph (b), the Tribe may at any time elect  to return
  all or a portion of the water which it  delivered under subparagraph (b) for
  use in the Uinta Basin. Any such Uinta Basin use shall protect the rights
  of non-Indian water users existing at the time of the election. Upon such
  election, the Tribe will relinquish any and all rights which it may have
  acquired to transport such water through the Bonneville Unit  facilities.
SEC. 503. TRIBAL USE OF WATER.
  (a) RATIFICATION OF REVISED UTE INDIAN COMPACT- The Revised Ute Indian
  Compact of 1990, dated October 1, 1990, reserving waters to the Ute Indian
  Tribe and establishing the uses and management of such Tribal waters,
  is hereby ratified and approved, subject to re-ratification by the State
  and the Tribe. The Secretary is authorized to take all actions necessary
  to implement the Compact.
  (b) THE INDIAN INTERCOURSE ACT- The provisions of section 2116 of the
  Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C.  177) shall not apply to  any water  rights
  confirmed in the Compact. Nothing in this subsection shall be considered
  to amend, construe, supersede or preempt any State law, Federal law,
  interstate compact or international treaty that pertains to the Colorado
  River or its tributaries,  including  the appropriation, use, development
  and  storage, regulation, allocation, conservation, exportation or quality
  of those waters.
  (c) RESTRICTION ON DISPOSAL OF WATERS INTO THE  LOWER COLORADO RIVER BASIN-
  None of the waters secured to the Tribe in the Revised Ute Indian Compact
  of 1990 may be sold, exchanged, leased, used, or otherwise disposed of
  into or in the Lower Colorado River Basin, below Lees Ferry, unless water
  rights within the Upper Colorado River Basin in the  State of Utah  held by
  non-Federal, non-Indian users could be so sold, exchanged, leased, used,
  or otherwise disposed of under Utah State law, Federal law, interstate
  compacts, or international treaty pursuant to a final, non-appealable
  order of a Federal court or pursuant to an agreement of the seven States
  signatory to the Colorado River Compact; Provided, however,  That in  no
  event shall such transfer of Indian water  rights take place without the
  filing and approval of the appropriate applications with the Utah State
  Engineer  pursuant to Utah State law.
  (d) USE OF WATER  RIGHTS- The use of the rights referred to in subsection
  (a) within the State of Utah shall be governed solely as provided in this
  section and the Revised Compact referred to in  section 503(a). The Tribe
  may voluntarily elect to sell, exchange, lease, use, or otherwise dispose
  of any portion of a water right confirmed in the Revised Compact off the
  Uintah and Ouray Indian  Reservation. If the Tribe so elects, and as a
  condition precedent to such sale, exchange, lease, use, or other disposition,
  that portion of  the Tribe's water right shall be changed to a State water
  right, but shall be such a State water right only during the use of that
  right off the  reservation,  and shall be fully subject to State laws,
  Federal laws, interstate compacts, and international treaties applicable to
  the Colorado River and its tributaries, including the appropriation, use,
  development, storage, regulation, allocation, conservation, exportation,
  or  quality of those waters.
  (e) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in titles II through VI of this Act or
  in the Revised Ute Indian Compact of 1990 shall--
  (1) constitute authority for the sale, exchange, lease, use, or other
  disposal of any Federal reserved water right off the reservation;
  (2) constitute authority for the sale, exchange, lease, use, or other
  disposal of any Tribal water right outside the State of Utah; or
  (3) be deemed a congressional determination that any holders of water rights
  do or do not have authority under existing law to sell, exchange, lease, use,
  or otherwise dispose of such water or water rights outside the State of Utah.
SEC. 504. TRIBAL FARMING OPERATIONS.
  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 501, $45,000,000
  is authorized for the Secretary to permit the Tribe to develop over a
  three-year period--
  (1) a seven thousand five hundred acre farming/feed lot operation
  equipped with satisfactory off-farm and on-farm water facilities out of
  tribally-owned lands and adjoining non-Indian lands now served by the
  Uintah Indian Irrigation Project;
  (2) a plan to reduce the Tribe's expense on the remaining sixteen thousand
  acres of tribal land now served by the Uintah Indian Irrigation Project; and
  (3) a fund to permit tribal members to upgrade their individual farming
  operations.
Any non-Indian lands acquired under this section shall be acquired from
willing sellers and shall not be added to the reservation of the Tribe.
SEC. 505. RESERVOIR, STREAM, HABITAT AND ROAD IMPROVEMENTS WITH RESPECT TO
THE UTE INDIAN RESERVATION.
  (a) REPAIR OF CEDARVIEW RESERVOIR- Of the amount authorized to be
  appropriated by section 201, $5,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary,
  in cooperation with the Tribe, to repair the leak in Cedarview Reservoir
  in Dark Canyon, Duchesne County, Utah, so that the resultant surface area
  of the reservoir is two hundred and ten acres.
  (b) RESERVATION STREAM IMPROVEMENTS- Of the amount authorized to be
  appropriated by section 201, $10,000,000 shall be available for the
  Secretary, in cooperation with the Tribe and in consultation with the
  Commission, to undertake stream improvements to not less than 53 linear
  miles (not counting meanders) for the Pole Creek, Rock Creek, Yellowstone
  River, Lake Fork River, Uinta River, and Whiterocks River, in the State
  of Utah. Nothing in this authorization shall increase the obligation of
  the District to deliver more than 44,400 acre-feet of Central Utah Project
  water as its contribution to the preservation of minimum stream flows in
  the Uinta Basin.
  (c) BOTTLE HOLLOW RESERVOIR- Of the amount authorized to be appropriated
  by section 201, $500,000 in an initial appropriation shall be available to
  permit the Secretary to clean the Bottle Hollow Reservoir on the Ute Indian
  Reservation of debris and trash resulting from a submerged sanitary landfill,
  to remove all non-game fish, and to secure minimum flow of water to the
  reservoir to make it a suitable habitat for a cold water fishery. The United
  States, and not the Tribe, shall be responsible for cleanup and all other
  responsibilities relating to the presently contaminated Bottle Hollow waters.
  (d) MINIMUM STREAM FLOWS- As a minimum, the Secretary shall endeavor to
  maintain continuous releases into Rock Creek to maintain twenty-nine cubic
  feet per second during May through October and continuous releases into Rock
  Creek of twenty-three cubic feet per second during November through April,
  at the reservation boundary. Nothing in this authorization shall increase
  the obligation of the District to deliver more than forty-four thousand
  four hundred acre-feet of Central Utah Project water as its contribution
  to the preservation of minimum stream flow in the Uinta Basin.
  (e) LAND TRANSFER- The Bureau shall transfer 315 acres of land to the
  Forest Service, located at the proposed site of the Lower Stillwater
  Reservoir as a wildlife mitigation measure.
  (f) RECREATION ENHANCEMENT- Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by
  section 201, $10,000,000 shall be available for the Secretary, in cooperation
  with the Tribe, to permit the Tribe to develop, after consultation with
  the appropriate fish, wildlife, and recreation agencies, big game hunting,
  fisheries, campgrounds and fish and wildlife management facilities, including
  administration buildings and grounds on the Uintah and Ouray Reservation, in
  lieu of the construction of the Lower Stillwater Dam and related facilities.
  (g) MUNICIPAL WATER CONVEYANCE SYSTEM- Of the amounts authorized to be
  appropriated in section 201, $3,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary
  for participation by the Tribe in the construction of pipelines associated
  with the Duchesne County Municipal Water Conveyance System.
SEC. 506. TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT FUNDS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section
  201, there is hereby established to be appropriated a total amount of
  $125,000,000 to be paid in three annual and equal installments to the
  Tribal Development Fund which the Secretary is authorized and directed to
  establish for the Tribe.
  (b) ADJUSTMENT- To the extent that any portion of such amount is contributed
  after the period described above or in amounts less than described above,
  the Tribe shall, subject to appropriation Acts, receive, in addition to the
  full contribution to the Tribal Development Fund, an adjustment representing
  the interest income as determined by the Secretary, in his sole discretion,
  that would have been earned on any unpaid amount.
  (c) TRIBAL DEVELOPMENT- The Tribe shall prepare a Tribal Development Plan for
  all or a part of this Tribal Development Fund. Such Tribal Development Plan
  shall set forth from time to time economic projects proposed by the Tribe
  which in the opinion of two independent financial consultants are deemed to
  be reasonable, prudent and likely to return a reasonable investment to the
  Tribe. The financial consultants shall be selected by the Tribe with the
  advice and consent of the Secretary. Principal from the Tribal Development
  Fund shall be permitted to be expended only in those cases where the Tribal
  Development Plan can demonstrate with specificity a compelling need to
  utilize principal in addition to income for the Tribal Development Plan.
  (d) No funds from the Tribal Development Fund shall be obligated or
  expended by the Secretary for any economic project to be developed
  or constructed pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, unless the
  Secretary has complied fully with the requirements of applicable fish,
  wildlife, recreation, and environmental laws, including the National
  Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (43 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
SEC. 507. WAIVER OF CLAIMS.
  (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Tribe is authorized to waive and release claims
  concerning or related to water rights as described below.
  (b) DESCRIPTION OF CLAIMS- The Tribe shall waive, upon receipt of the
  section 504, 505, and 506 moneys, any and all claims relating to its water
  rights covered under the agreement of September 20, 1965, including claims
  by the Tribe that it retains the right to develop lands as set forth in
  the Ute Indian Compact and deferred in such agreement. Nothing in this
  waiver of claims shall prevent the Tribe from enforcing rights granted to
  it under this Act or under the Compact. To the extent necessary to effect
  a complete release of the claims, the United States concurs in such release.
  (c) RESURRECTION OF CLAIMS- In the event the Tribe does not receive on a
  timely basis the moneys described in section 502, the Tribe is authorized to
  bring an action for an accounting against the United States, if applicable,
  in the United States Claims Court for moneys owed plus interest at 10
  percent, and against the District, if applicable, in the United States
  District Court for the District of Utah for moneys owed plus interest at
  10 percent. The United States and the District waive any defense based
  upon sovereign immunity in such proceedings.
TITLE VI--ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT AND NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT
  Notwithstanding any provision of titles II through V of this Act, nothing in
  such titles shall be interpreted as modifying or amending the provisions
  of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or the
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
TITLE VII--LEADVILLE MINE DRAINAGE TUNNEL, COLORADO
SEC. 701. AUTHORIZATION.
  The Secretary is authorized to construct, operate, and maintain a water
  treatment plant, including the disposal of sludge produced by said treatment
  plant as appropriate, and to install concrete lining on the rehabilitated
  portion of the Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel, in order that water flowing
  from the Leadville Tunnel may meet water quality standards, and to contract
  with the Colorado Division of Wildlife to monitor concentrations of heavy
  metal contaminants in water, stream sediment, and aquatic life in the
  Arkansas River downstream of the water treatment plant.
SEC. 702. COSTS NONREIMBURSABLE.
  Construction, operation, and maintenance costs of the works authorized by
  this title shall be nonreimbursable.
SEC. 703. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
  The Secretary shall be responsible for operation and maintenance of
  the water treatment plant, including sludge disposal authorized by this
  title. The Secretary may contract for these services.
SEC. 704. APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZED.
  There is hereby authorized to be appropriated beginning October 1, 1989,
  for construction of a water treatment plant for water flowing from the
  Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel, including sludge disposal, and concrete
  lining the rehabilitated portion of the tunnel, the sum of $10,700,000
  (October 1988 price levels), plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may
  be required by reason of ordinary fluctuations in construction costs as
  indicated by engineering cost indexes applicable to the types of construction
  involved herein and, in addition thereto, such sums as may be required for
  operation and maintenance of the works authorized by this title, including
  but not limited to $1,250,000 which shall be for a program to be conducted
  by the Colorado Division of Wildlife to monitor heavy metal concentrations
  in water, stream sediment, and aquatic life in the Arkansas River.
SEC. 705. LIMITATION.
  The treatment plant authorized by this title shall be designed and
  constructed to treat the quantity and quality of effluent historically
  discharged from the Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel.
SEC. 706. DESIGN AND OPERATION NOTIFICATION.
  Prior to the initiation of construction and during construction of the
  works authorized by section 701, the Secretary shall submit the plans for
  design and operation of the works to the Administrator of the Environmental
  Protection Agency and the State of Colorado to obtain their views on the
  design and operation plans. After such review and consultation, the Secretary
  shall notify the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the
  House of Representatives that the discharge from the works to be constructed
  will meet the requirements set forth in Federal Facilities Compliance
  Agreement Number FFCA 89-1, entered into by the Bureau of Reclamation and
  the Environmental Protection Agency on February 7, 1989, and in National
  Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit Number CO 0021717 issued to
  the Bureau of Reclamation in 1975 and reissued in 1979 and 1981.
SEC. 707. FISH AND WILDLIFE RESTORATION.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with the State of Colorado,
  to formulate and implement, subject to the terms of subsection (b) of this
  section, a program for the restoration of fish and wildlife resources
  of those portions of the Arkansas River basin impacted by the effluent
  discharged from the Leadville Mine Drainage Tunnel. The formulation of
  the program shall be undertaken with appropriate public consultation.
  (b) Prior to implementing the fish and wildlife restoration program,
  the Secretary shall submit a copy of the proposed restoration program to
  the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
  Representatives for a period of not less than sixty days.
SEC. 708. WATER QUALITY RESTORATION.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized, in consultation with the State of
  Colorado, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,
  and other Federal entities, to conduct investigations of water pollution
  sources and impacts attributed to mining-related and other development
  in the Upper Arkansas River basin, to develop corrective action plans,
  and to implement corrective action demonstration projects. Neither the
  Secretary nor any person participating in a corrective action demonstration
  project shall be liable under section 107 of the Comprehensive Environmental
  Response, Compensation, and Liability Act for costs or damages as a result
  of actions taken or omitted in the course of implementing an approved work
  plan developed under this section; Provided, That this subsection shall
  not preclude liability for costs or damages which result from negligence on
  the part of such persons. The Secretary shall have no authority under this
  section at facilities which have been listed or proposed for listing on
  the National Priorities List, or are subject to or covered by the Resource
  Conservation and Recovery Act. For the purpose of this section, the term
  `Upper Arkansas River basin' means the Arkansas River hydrologic basin in
  Colorado extending from Pueblo Dam upstream to its headwaters.
  (b) The development of all corrective action plans and subsequent corrective
  action demonstration projects shall be undertaken with appropriate public
  involvement pursuant to a public participation plan, consistent with
  regulations promulgated under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act,
  developed by the Secretary in consultation with the State of Colorado and
  the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (c) The Secretary shall arrange for cost sharing with the State of
  Colorado and for the use of non-Federal funds and in-kind services where
  possible. The Secretary is authorized to fund all State costs required to
  conduct investigations and develop corrective action plans. The Federal share
  of costs associated with corrective action plans shall not exceed 60 percent.
  (d) Prior to implementing any corrective action demonstration project, the
  Secretary shall submit a copy of the proposed project plans to the President
  pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
  (e) Nothing in this title shall affect or modify in any way the obligations
  or liabilities of any person under other Federal or State law, including
  common law, with respect to the discharge or release of hazardous
  substances, pollutants, or contaminants, as defined under section 101 of
  the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act.
  (f) There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be required
  to fulfill the provisions of sections 707 and 708 of this title.
TITLE VIII--LAKE MEREDITH SALINITY CONTROL PROJECT, TEXAS AND NEW MEXICO
SEC. 801. AUTHORIZATION TO CONSTRUCT AND TEST.
  The Secretary is authorized to construct and test the Lake Meredith
  Salinity Control Project, New Mexico and Texas, in accordance with the
  Federal Reclamation laws (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 788, and Acts
  amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto) and the provisions of this
  title and the plan set out in the June 1985 Technical Report of the Bureau
  of Reclamation on this project with such modification of, omissions from,
  or additions to the works, as the Secretary may find proper and necessary
  for the purpose of improving the quality of water delivered to the Canadian
  River downstream of Ute Reservoir, New Mexico, and entering Lake Meredith,
  Texas. The principal features of the project shall consist of production
  wells, observation wells, pipelines, pumping plants, brine disposal
  facilities, and other appurtenant facilities.
SEC. 802. CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH THE CANADIAN RIVER MUNICIPAL WATER
AUTHORITY.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT- The Secretary is authorized to enter into
  a contract with the Canadian River Municipal Water Authority of Texas
  (hereafter in this title the `Authority') for the design and construction
  management of project facilities by the Bureau of Reclamation and for the
  payment of construction costs by the Authority. Operation and maintenance
  of project facilities upon completion of construction and testing shall
  be the responsibility of the Authority.
  (b) CONSTRUCTION CONTINGENT ON CONTRACT- Construction of the project
  shall not be commenced until a contract has been executed by the Secretary
  with the Authority, and the State of New Mexico has granted the necessary
  permits for the project facilities.
SEC. 803. PROJECT COSTS.
  (a) CANADIAN RIVER MUNICIPAL WATER AUTHORITY SHARE- All costs of construction
  of project facilities shall be advanced by the Authority as the non-Federal
  contribution toward implementation of this title. Pursuant to the terms of
  the contract authorized by section 802 of this title, these funds shall
  be advanced on a schedule mutually acceptable to the Authority and the
  Secretary, as necessary to meet the expense of carrying out construction
  and land acquisition activities.
  (b) FEDERAL SHARE- All project costs for design preparation, and construction
  management shall be nonreimbursable as the Federal contribution for
  environmental enhancement by water quality improvement, except that the
  Federal contribution shall not exceed 33 per centum of the total project
  costs.
SEC. 804. CONSTRUCTION AND CONTROL.
  (a) PRECONSTRUCTION- The Secretary shall, upon entering into the contract
  specified in section 802 with the Authority, proceed with preconstruction
  planning, preparation of designs and specifications, acquiring permits,
  acquisition of land and rights, and award of construction contracts pending
  availability of appropriated funds.
  (b) TERMINATION OF CONSTRUCTION- At any time following the first advance of
  funds, the Authority may request that the Secretary terminate activities
  then in progress, and such request shall be binding upon the Secretary,
  except that, upon termination of construction pursuant to this section,
  the Authority shall reimburse to the Secretary a sum equal to 67 per
  centum of all costs incurred by the Secretary in project verification,
  design and construction management, reduced by any sums previously paid by
  the Authority to the Secretary for such purposes. Upon such termination,
  the United States is under no obligation to complete the project as a
  nonreimbursable development.
  (c) TRANSFER OF CONTROL- Upon completion of construction and testing
  of the project, or upon termination of activities at the request of the
  Authority, the Secretary shall transfer the care, operation, and maintenance
  of the project works to the Authority or to a bona fide entity mutually
  agreeable to the States of New Mexico and Texas. As part of such transfer,
  the Secretary shall return unexpended balances of the funds advanced,
  assign to the Authority or the bona fide entity the rights to any contract
  in force, convey to the Authority or the bona fide entity any real estate,
  easements or personal property acquired by the advanced funds, and provide
  any data, drawings, or other items of value procured with advanced funds.
SEC. 805. TRANSFER OF TITLE.
  Title to any facilities constructed under the authority of this title
  shall remain with the United States.
SEC. 806. AUTHORIZATION.
  There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary
  to carry out the provisions of this title, except that the total Federal
  contribution to the cost of the activities undertaken under the authority
  of this title shall not exceed 33 per centum.
TITLE IX--CEDAR BLUFF UNIT, KANSAS
SEC. 901. AUTHORIZATION.
  The Secretary, pursuant to the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding
  between the Bureau of Reclamation and the Fish and Wildlife Service of
  the Department of the Interior, the State of Kansas, and the Cedar Bluff
  Irrigation District Number 6, dated December 17, 1987, is authorized to
  reformulate the Cedar Bluff Unit of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program,
  Kansas, including reallocation of the conservation capacity of the Cedar
  Bluff Reservoir, to create:
  (a) a designated operating pool, as defined in such Memorandum of
  Understanding, for fish, wildlife, and recreation purposes, for groundwater
  recharge for environmental, domestic, municipal and industrial uses,
  and for other purposes; and
  (b) a joint-use pool, as defined in such Memorandum of Understanding,
  for flood control, water sales, fish, wildlife, and recreation purposes;
  and for other purposes.
SEC. 902. CONTRACT.
  The Secretary is authorized to enter into a contract with the State of Kansas
  for the sale, use, and control of the designated operating pool, with the
  exception of water reserved for the city of Russell, Kansas, and to allow
  the State of Kansas to acquire use and control of water in the joint-use
  pool, except that, the State of Kansas shall not permit utilization of
  water from Cedar Bluff Reservoir to irrigate lands in the Smoky Hill River
  Basin from Cedar Bluff Reservoir to its confluence with Big Creek.
SEC. 903. CONTRACT.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized to enter into a contract with the State
  of Kansas, accepting a payment of $365,424, and the State's commitment
  to pay a proportionate share of the annual operation, maintenance,
  and replacement charges for the Cedar Bluff Dam and Reservoir, as full
  satisfaction of reimbursable costs associated with irrigation of the Cedar
  Bluff Unit, including the Cedar Bluff Irrigation District's obligations
  under Contract Number 0-07-70-W0064. After the reformulation of the Cedar
  Bluff Unit authorized by this title, any revenues in excess of operating and
  maintenance expenses received by the State of Kansas from the sale of water
  from the Cedar Bluff Unit shall be paid to the United States and covered
  into the Reclamation Fund to the extent that an operation, maintenance and
  replacement charge or reimbursable capital obligation exists for the Cedar
  Bluff Unit under Reclamation law. Once all such operation, maintenance
  and replacement charges or reimbursable obligations are satisfied, any
  additional revenues shall be retained by the State of Kansas.
  (b) The Secretary is authorized to transfer title of the buildings,
  fixtures, and equipment of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
  fish hatchery facility at Cedar Bluff Dam, and the related water rights,
  to the State of Kansas for its use and operation for fish, wildlife, and
  related purposes. If any of the property transferred by this subsection
  to the State of Kansas is subsequently transferred from State ownership
  or used for any purpose other than those provided for in this subsection,
  title to such property shall revert to the United States.
SEC. 904. TRANSFER OF DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS.
  The Secretary is authorized to transfer title to all interests in real
  property, buildings, fixtures, equipment, and tools associated with the
  Cedar Bluff Irrigation District headquarters located near Hays, Kansas,
  contingent upon the District's agreement to close down the irrigation
  system to the satisfaction of the Secretary at no additional cost to the
  United States, after which all easement rights shall revert to the owners
  of the lands to which the easements are attached.
SEC. 905. LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
  The transferee of any interest conveyed pursuant to this title shall assume
  all liability with respect to such interests and shall indemnify the United
  States against all such liability.
SEC. 906. ADDITIONAL ACTIONS.
  The Secretary is authorized to take all other actions consistent with the
  provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding referred to in section 901
  that the Secretary deems necessary to accomplish the reformulation of the
  Cedar Bluff Unit.
TITLE X--SOUTH DAKOTA WATER PLANNING STUDIES
SEC. 1001. AUTHORIZATION FOR SOUTH DAKOTA WATER PLANNING STUDIES.
  (a) The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of
  the Bureau of Reclamation, may perform the planning studies necessary
  (including a needs assessment) to determine the feasibility and estimated
  cost of incorporating all or portions of the Rosebud Sioux Reservation in
  South Dakota into the service areas of the rural water systems authorized
  by the Mni Wiconi Project Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-516).
  (b) Section 3(f) of Public Law 100-516 is hereby amended to insert a new
  subsection (3) as follows:
  `(3) Notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), the Secretary is authorized and
  directed to obligate up to $1.466 million of the funds appropriated under
  Public Law 100-516 to construct an interim water system for the White Clay
  and Wakpamni Districts of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation as soon as the
  final engineering report for that segment of the Oglala Rural Water Supply
  System has been completed and the requirements of the National Environmental
  Policy Act of 1969 for that segment of the System have been met.'
TITLE XI--SALTON SEA RESEARCH PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
SEC. 1101. RESEARCH PROJECT.
  (a) RESEARCH PROJECT- The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the
  Bureau of Reclamation, shall conduct a research project for the development
  of a method or combination of methods to reduce and control salinity,
  provide endangered species habitat, enhance fisheries, and protect human
  recreational values in inland water bodies. Such research shall include
  testing an enhanced evaporation system for treatment of saline waters,
  and studies regarding in-water segregation of saline waters and of dilution
  from other sources. The project shall be located in the area of the Salton
  Sea of Southern California.
  (b) COST SHARE- The non-Federal share of the cost of the project referred
  to in subsection (a) shall be 50 percent of the cost of the project.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than September 30, 1996, the Secretary shall submit
  a report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
  and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on
  Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives regarding
  the results of the project referred to in subsection (a).
  (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  $10,000,000 to carry out the purposes of this title.
TITLE XII--AMENDMENT TO SABINE RIVER COMPACT
SEC. 1201. CONSENT TO AMENDMENT TO SABINE RIVER COMPACT.
  The consent of Congress is given to the amendment, described in section
  1203, to the interstate compact, described in section 1202, relating to
  the waters of the Sabine River and its tributaries.
SEC. 1202. COMPACT DESCRIBED.
  The compact referred to in the previous section is the compact between the
  States of Texas and Louisiana, and consented to by Congress in the Act of
  August 10, 1954 (chapter 668; 68 Stat. 690; Public Law 85-78).
SEC. 1203. AMENDMENT.
  The amendment referred to in section 1201 strikes `One of the Louisiana
  members shall be ex officio the Director of the Louisiana Department
  of Public Works; the other Louisiana member shall be a resident of the
  Sabine Watershed and shall be appointed by the Governor of Louisiana for
  a term of four years: Provided, That the first member so appointed shall
  serve until June 30, 1958.' in article VII(c) and inserts `The Louisiana
  members shall be residents of the Sabine Watershed and shall be appointed
  by the Governor for a term of four years, which shall run concurrent with
  the term of the Governor.'.
TITLE XIII--SALT-GILA AQUEDUCT, ARIZONA
SEC. 1301. DESIGNATION.
  The Salt-Gila Aqueduct of the Central Arizona Project, constructed, operated,
  and maintained under section 301(a)(7) of the Colorado River Basin Project
  Act (43 U.S.C. 1521(a)(7)), hereafter shall be known and designated as the
  `Fannin-McFarland Aqueduct'.
SEC. 1302. REFERENCES.
  Any reference in any law, regulation, document, record, map, or other
  paper of the United States to the aqueduct referred to in section 1301
  hereby is deemed to be a reference to the `Fannin-McFarland Aqueduct'.
TITLE XIV--VERMEJO PROJECT RELIEF, NEW MEXICO
  Section 401 of the Act of December 19, 1980 (94 Stat. 3227), is amended
  by striking the text that begins: `Transfer of project facilities to the
  district shall be without . . .' and ends with `. . . shall be maintained
  consistently with existing arrangements' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Effective as of the date of the written consent of the Vermejo Conservancy
  District to amend contract 178r-458, all facilities are hereby transferred
  to the District. The transfer to the district of project facilities shall
  be without any additional consideration in excess of the existing repayment
  contract of the district and shall include all related lands or interest
  in lands acquired by the Federal Government for the project, but shall not
  include any lands or interests in land, or interests in water, purchased by
  the Federal Government from various landowners in the district, consisting
  of approximately two thousand eight hundred acres, for the Maxwell Wildlife
  Refuge and shall not include certain contractual arrangements, namely
  Contract Number 14-06-500-1713 between the Bureau of Reclamation and the
  Bureau of Sport Fisheries and Wildlife, and concurred in by the district,
  dated December 5, 1969, and the lease agreement between the district
  and the Secretary dated January 17, 1992, and expiring January 17, 1995,
  for 468.38 acres under the district's Lakes 12 and 14, which contractual
  arrangements shall be maintained consistent with the terms thereof. The
  Secretary, acting through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
  shall retain the right to manage Lake 13 for the conservation, maintenance,
  and development of the area as a component of the Maxwell National Wildlife
  Refuge in accordance with Contract Number 14-06-500-1713 and in a manner
  that does not interfere with operation of the Lake 13 dam and reservoir
  for the primary purposes of the Vermejo Reclamation Project.'
TITLE XV--SAN LUIS VALLEY PROTECTION, COLORADO
SEC. 1501. PERMIT ISSUANCE PROHIBITED.
  (a) No agency or instrumentality of the United States shall issue any permit,
  license, right-of-way, grant, loan or other authorization or assistance for
  any project or feature of any project to withdraw water from the San Luis
  Valley, Colorado, for export to another basin in Colorado or export to any
  portion of another State, unless the Secretary of the Interior determines,
  after due consideration of all findings provided by the Colorado Water
  Conservation Board, that the project will not:
  (1) increase the costs or negatively affect operation of the Closed Basin
  Project;
  (2) adversely affect the purposes of any national wildlife refuge or Federal
  wildlife habitat area withdrawal located in the San Luis Valley, Colorado; or
  (3) adversely affect the purposes of the Great Sand Dunes National Monument,
  Colorado.
  (b) Nothing in this title shall be construed to alter, amend, or limit
  any provision of Federal or State law that applies to any project or
  feature of a project to withdraw water from the San Luis Valley, Colorado,
  for export to another basin in Colorado or another State. Nothing in this
  title shall be construed to limit any agency's authority or responsibility
  to reject, limit, or condition any such project on any basis independent
  of the requirements of this title.
SEC. 1502. JUDICIAL REVIEW.
  The Secretary's findings required by this title shall be subject to judicial
  review in the United States district courts.
SEC. 1503. COSTS.
  The direct and indirect costs of the findings required by section 1501 of
  this title shall be paid in advance by the project proponent under terms
  and conditions set by the Secretary.
SEC. 1504. DISCLAIMERS.
  (a) Nothing in this title shall constitute either an expressed or implied
  reservation of water or water rights.
  (b) Nothing in this title shall be construed as establishing a precedent
  with regard to any other Federal reclamation project.
TITLE XVI--RECLAMATION WASTEWATER AND GROUNDWATER STUDIES
SEC. 1601. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be referred to as the `Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater
  Study and Facilities Act'.
SEC. 1602. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
  (a) The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter `Secretary'), acting pursuant
  to the Reclamation Act of 1902 (Act of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388) and
  Acts amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto (hereafter `Federal
  reclamation laws'), is directed to undertake a program to investigate and
  identify opportunities for reclamation and reuse of municipal, industrial,
  domestic, and agricultural wastewater, and naturally impaired ground and
  surface waters, for the design and construction of demonstration and
  permanent facilities to reclaim and reuse wastewater, and to conduct
  research, including desalting, for the reclamation of wastewater and
  naturally impaired ground and surface waters.
  (b) Such program shall be limited to the States and areas referred to
  in section 1 of the Reclamation Act of 1902 (Act of June 17, 1902, 32
  Stat. 388) as amended.
  (c) The Secretary is authorized to enter into such agreements and promulgate
  such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the purposes and provisions
  of this title.
  (d) The Secretary shall not investigate, promote or implement, pursuant
  to this title, any project intended to reclaim and reuse agricultural
  wastewater generated in the service area of the San Luis Unit of the
  Central Valley Project, California, except those measures recommended for
  action by the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program in the report entitled A
  Management Plan for Agricultural Subsurface Drainage and Related Problems
  on the Westside San Joaquin Valley (September 1990).
SEC. 1603. APPRAISAL INVESTIGATIONS.
  (a) The Secretary shall undertake appraisal investigations to identify
  opportunities for water reclamation and reuse. Each such investigation
  shall take into account environmental considerations as provided by the
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and
  regulations issued to implement the provisions thereof, and shall include
  recommendations as to the preparation of a feasibility study of the
  potential reclamation and reuse measures.
  (b) Appraisal investigations undertaken pursuant to this title shall
  consider, among other things--
  (1) all potential uses of reclaimed water, including, but not limited
  to, environmental restoration, fish and wildlife, groundwater recharge,
  municipal, domestic, industrial, agricultural, power generation, and
  recreation;
  (2) the current status of water reclamation technology and opportunities
  for development of improved technologies;
  (3) measures to stimulate demand for and eliminate obstacles to use of
  reclaimed water, including pricing;
  (4) measures to coordinate and streamline local, State and Federal permitting
  procedures required for the implementation of reclamation projects; and
  (5) measures to identify basic research needs required to expand the uses
  of reclaimed water in a safe and environmentally sound manner.
  (c) The Secretary shall consult and cooperate with appropriate State,
  regional, and local authorities during the conduct of each appraisal
  investigation conducted pursuant to this title.
  (d) Costs of such appraisal investigations shall be nonreimbursable.
SEC. 1604. FEASIBILITY STUDIES.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized to participate with appropriate Federal,
  State, regional, and local authorities in studies to determine the
  feasibility of water reclamation and reuse projects recommended for such
  study pursuant to section 1603 of this title. The Federal share of the
  costs of such feasibility studies shall not exceed 50 per centum of the
  total, except that the Secretary may increase the Federal share of the
  costs of such feasibility study if the Secretary determines, based upon
  a demonstration of financial hardship on the part of the non-Federal
  participant, that the non-Federal participant is unable to contribute at
  least 50 per centum of the costs of such study. The Secretary may accept
  as part of the non-Federal cost share the contribution of such in-kind
  services by the non-Federal participant that the Secretary determines will
  contribute substantially toward the conduct and completion of the study.
  (b) The Federal share of feasibility studies, including those described
  in sections 1606 and 1608 through 1610 of this title, shall be considered
  as project costs and shall be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal
  reclamation laws, if the project studied is implemented.
  (c) In addition to the requirements of other Federal laws, feasibility
  studies authorized under this title shall consider, among other things--
  (1) near- and long-term water demand and supplies in the study area;
  (2) all potential uses for reclaimed water;
  (3) measures and technologies available for water reclamation, distribution,
  and reuse;
  (4) public health and environmental quality issues associated with use of
  reclaimed water; and,
  (5) whether development of the water reclamation and reuse measures under
  study would--
  (A) reduce, postpone, or eliminate development of new or expanded water
  supplies, or
  (B) reduce or eliminate the use of existing diversions from natural
  watercourses or withdrawals from aquifers.
SEC. 1605. RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
  The Secretary is authorized to conduct research and to construct, operate,
  and maintain cooperative demonstration projects for the development and
  demonstration of appropriate treatment technologies for the reclamation
  of municipal, industrial, domestic, and agricultural wastewater, and
  naturally impaired ground and surface waters. The Federal share of the
  costs of demonstration projects shall not exceed 50 per centum of the
  total cost including operation and maintenance. Rights to inventions
  developed pursuant to this section shall be governed by the provisions of
  the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-480)
  as amended by the Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-502).
SEC. 1606. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA COMPREHENSIVE WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE STUDY.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized to conduct a study to assess the
  feasibility of a comprehensive water reclamation and reuse system for
  Southern California. For the purpose of this title, the term `Southern
  California' means those portions of the counties of Imperial, Los Angeles,
  Orange, San Bernadino, Riverside, San Diego, and Ventura within the south
  coast and Colorado River hydrologic regions as defined by the California
  Department of Water Resources.
  (b) The Secretary shall conduct the study authorized by this section in
  cooperation with the State of California and appropriate local and regional
  entities. The Federal share of the costs associated with this study shall
  not exceed 50 per centum of the total.
  (c) The Secretary shall submit the report authorized by this section to the
  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
  on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives not later
  than six years after appropriation of funds authorized by this title.
SEC. 1607. SAN JOSE AREA WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE PROGRAM.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the city of San Jose, California,
  and the Santa Clara Valley Water District, and local water suppliers, shall
  participate in the planning, design and construction of demonstration and
  permanent facilities to reclaim and reuse water in the San Jose metropolitan
  service area.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the facilities authorized by subsection
  (a) shall not exceed 25 per centum of the total. The Secretary shall not
  provide funds for the operation or maintenance of the project.
SEC. 1608. PHOENIX METROPOLITAN WATER RECLAMATION STUDY AND PROGRAM.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the city of Phoenix, Arizona, shall
  conduct a feasibility study of the potential for development of facilities
  to utilize fully wastewater from the regional wastewater treatment plant
  for direct municipal, industrial, agricultural, and environmental purposes,
  groundwater recharge and direct potable reuse in the Phoenix metropolitan
  area, and in cooperation with the city of Phoenix design and construct
  facilities for environmental purposes, ground water recharge and direct
  potable reuse.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the study authorized by this section
  shall not exceed 50 per centum of the total. The Federal share of the
  costs associated with the project described in subsection (a) shall not
  exceed 25 per centum of the total. The Secretary shall not provide funds
  for operation or maintenance of the project.
  (c) The Secretary shall submit the report authorized by this section to the
  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
  on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives not later
  than two years after appropriation of funds authorized by this title.
SEC. 1609. TUCSON AREA WATER RECLAMATION STUDY.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the State of Arizona and
  appropriate local and regional entities, shall conduct a feasibility
  study of comprehensive water reclamation and reuse system for Southern
  Arizona. For the purpose of this section, the term `Southern Arizona'
  means those portions of the counties of Pima, Santa Cruz, and Pinal within
  the Tucson Active Management Hydrologic Area as defined by the Arizona
  Department of Water Resources.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the study authorized by this section
  shall not exceed 50 per centum of the total.
  (c) The Secretary shall submit the report authorized by this section to the
  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
  on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives not later
  than four years after appropriation of funds authorized by this title.
SEC. 1610. LAKE CHERAW WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE STUDY.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized, in cooperation with the State of Colorado
  and appropriate local and regional entities, to conduct a study to assess
  and develop means of reclaiming the waters of Lake Cheraw, Colorado,
  or otherwise ameliorating, controlling and mitigating potential negative
  impacts of pollution in the waters of Lake Cheraw on groundwater resources
  or the waters of the Arkansas River.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the study authorized by this section
  shall not exceed 50 per centum of the total.
  (c) The Secretary shall submit the report authorized by this section to the
  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
  on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives not later
  than two years after appropriation of funds authorized by this title.
SEC. 1611. SAN FRANCISCO AREA WATER RECLAMATION STUDY.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the city and county of San Francisco,
  shall conduct a feasibility study of the potential for development
  of demonstration and permanent facilities to reclaim water in the San
  Francisco area for the purposes of export and reuse elsewhere in California.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the study authorized by this section
  shall not exceed 50 per centum of the total.
  (c) The Secretary shall submit the report authorized by this section to the
  Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
  on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives not later
  than four years after appropriation of funds authorized by this title.
SEC. 1612. SAN DIEGO AREA WATER RECLAMATION PROGRAM.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the city of San Diego, California or
  its successor agency in the management of the San Diego Area Wastewater
  Management District, shall participate in the planning, design and
  construction of demonstration and permanent facilities to reclaim and
  reuse water in the San Diego metropolitan service area.
  (b) The Federal share of the costs of the facilities authorized by subsection
  (a) shall not exceed 25 per centum of the total. The Secretary shall not
  provide funds for the operation or maintenance of the project.
SEC. 1613. LOS ANGELES AREA WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE PROJECT.
  (a) The Secretary is authorized to participate with the city and county of
  Los Angeles, State of California, West Basin Municipal Water District, and
  other appropriate authorities, in the design, planning, and construction of
  water reclamation and reuse projects to treat approximately one hundred and
  twenty thousand acre-feet per year of effluent from the city and county
  of Los Angeles, in order to provide new water supplies for industrial,
  environmental, and other beneficial purposes, to reduce the demand for
  imported water, and to reduce sewage effluent discharged into Santa
  Monica Bay.
  (b) The Secretary's share of costs associated with the project described in
  subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 per centum of the total. The Secretary
  shall not provide funds for operation or maintenance of the project.
SEC. 1614. SAN GABRIEL BASIN DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
  (a) The Secretary, in cooperation with the Metropolitan Water District of
  Southern California and the Main San Gabriel Water Quality Authority or
  a successor public agency, is authorized to participate in the design,
  planning and construction of a conjunctive-use facility designed to
  improve the water quality in the San Gabriel groundwater basin and allow
  the utilization of the basin as a water storage facility; Provided,
  That this authority shall not be construed to limit the authority of the
  United States under any other Federal statute to pursue remedial actions
  or recovery of costs for work performed pursuant to this subsection.
  (b) The Secretary's share of costs associated with the project described in
  subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 per centum of the total. The Secretary
  shall not provide funds for the operation or maintenance of the project.
SEC. 1615. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
  carry out the purposes and provisions of sections 1601 through 1614 of
  this title.
SEC. 1616. GROUNDWATER STUDY.
  (a) In furtherance of the High Plains Groundwater Demonstration Program
  Act of 1983 (98 Stat. 1675), the Secretary of the Interior, acting through
  the Bureau of Reclamation and the Geological Survey, shall conduct an
  investigation and analysis of the impacts of existing Bureau of Reclamation
  projects on the quality and quantity of groundwater resources. Based on
  such investigation and analysis, the Secretary shall prepare a reclamation
  groundwater management and technical assistance report which shall include--
  (1) a description of the findings of the investigation and analysis,
  including the methodology employed;
  (2) a description of methods for optimizing Bureau of Reclamation project
  operations to ameliorate adverse impacts on groundwater, and
  (3) the Secretary's recommendations, along with the recommendations of
  the Governors of the affected States, concerning the establishment of a
  groundwater management and technical assistance program in the Department of
  the Interior in order to assist Federal and non-Federal entity development
  and implementation of groundwater management plans and activities.
  (b) In conducting the investigation and analysis, and in preparation of
  the report referred to in this section, the Secretary shall consult with
  the Governors of the affected States.
  (c) The report shall be submitted to the Committees on Appropriations
  and Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and the
  Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
  within three years of the appropriation of funds authorized by section 1617.
SEC. 1617. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after
  September 30, 1992, $4,000,000 to carry out the study authorized by
  section 1616.
TITLE XVII--IRRIGATION ON STANDING ROCK INDIAN RESERVATION, NORTH DAKOTA
SEC. 1701. IRRIGATION ON STANDING ROCK INDIAN RESERVATION.
  (a) Section 5(e) of Public Law 89-108, as amended by section 3 of the
  Garrison Diversion Unit Reformulation Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-294),
  is amended by striking `Fort Yates' and inserting `one or more locations
  within the Standing Rock Indian Reservation'.
  (b) Section 10 of Public Law 89-108, as amended by section 8 of Public
  Law 99-294, is further amended by adding subsection (e) as follows:
  `(e) The portion of the $61,000,000 authorized for Indian municipal, rural,
  and industrial water features shall be indexed as necessary to allow for
  ordinary fluctuations of construction costs incurred after October 1,
  1986, as indicated by engineering costs indices applicable for the type
  of construction involved. All other authorized cost ceilings shall remain
  unchanged.'
TITLE XVIII--GRAND CANYON PROTECTION
SEC. 1801. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Grand Canyon Protection Act of 1992'.
SEC. 1802. PROTECTION OF GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall operate Glen Canyon Dam in accordance
  with the additional criteria and operating plans specified in section 1804
  and exercise other authorities under existing law in such a manner as to
  project, mitigate adverse impacts to, and improve the values for which
  Grand Canyon National Park and Glen Canyon National Recreation Area were
  established, including, but not limited to natural and cultural resources
  and visitor use.
  (b) COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAW- The Secretary shall implement this section
  in a manner fully consistent with and subject to the Colorado River Compact,
  the Upper Colorado River Basin Compact, the Water Treaty of 1944 with Mexico,
  the decree of the Supreme Court in Arizona v. California, and the provisions
  of the Colorado River Storage Project Act of 1956 and the Colorado River
  Basin Project Act of 1968 that govern allocation, appropriation, development,
  and exportation of the waters of the Colorado River Basin.
  (c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this title alters the purposes for
  which the Grand Canyon National Park or the Glen Canyon National Recreation
  Area were established or affects the authority and responsibility of the
  Secretary with respect to the management and administration of the Grand
  Canyon National Park and Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, including
  natural and cultural resources and visitor use, under laws applicable to
  those areas, including, but not limited to, the Act of August 25, 1916
  (39 Stat. 535) as amended and supplemented.
SEC. 1803. INTERIM PROTECTION OF GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK.
  (a) INTERIM OPERATIONS- Pending compliance by the Secretary with section
  1804, the Secretary shall, on an interim basis, continue to operate Glen
  Canyon Dam under the Secretary's announced interim operating criteria and the
  Interagency Agreement between the Bureau of Reclamation and the Western Area
  Power Administration executed October 2, 1991 and exercise other authorities
  under existing law, in accordance with the standards set forth in section
  1802, utilizing the best and most recent scientific data available.
  (b) CONSULTATION- The Secretary shall continue to implement Interim
  Operations in consultation with--
  (1) Appropriate agencies of the Department of the Interior, including the
  Bureau of Reclamation, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the
  National Park Service;
  (2) The Secretary of Energy;
  (3) The Governors of the States of Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada,
  New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming;
  (4) Indian Tribes; and
  (5) The general public, including representatives of the academic and
  scientific communities, environmental organizations, the recreation
  industry, and contractors for the purchase of Federal power produced at
  Glen Canyon Dam.
  (c) DEVIATION FROM INTERIM OPERATIONS- The Secretary may deviate from
  Interim Operations upon a finding that deviation is necessary and in the
  public interest to--
  (1) comply with the requirements of Section 1804(a);
  (2) respond to hydrologic extremes or power system operation emergencies;
  (3) comply with the standards set forth in Section 1802;
  (4) respond to advances in scientific data; or
  (5) comply with the terms of the Interagency Agreement.
  (d) TERMINATION OF INTERIM OPERATIONS- Interim operations described in this
  section shall terminate upon compliance by the Secretary with section 1804.
SEC. 1804. GLEN CANYON DAM ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT; LONG-TERM OPERATION
OF GLEN CANYON DAM.
  (a) FINAL ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT- Not later than 2 years after
  the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a final
  Glen Canyon Dam environmental impact statement, in accordance with the
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
  (b) AUDIT- The Comptroller General shall--
  (1) audit the costs and benefits to water and power users and to natural,
  recreational, and cultural resources resulting from management policies and
  dam operations identified pursuant to the environmental impact statement
  described in subsection (a); and
  (2) report the results of the audit to the Secretary and the Congress.
  (c) ADOPTION OF CRITERIA AND PLANS- (1) Based on the findings, conclusions,
  and recommendations made in the environmental impact statement prepared
  pursuant to subsection (a) and the audit performed pursuant to subsection
  (b), the Secretary shall--
  (A) adopt criteria and operating plans separate from and in addition to
  those specified in section 602(b) of the Colorado River Basin Project Act
  of 1968; and
  (B) exercise other authorities under existing law, so as to ensure that
  Glen Canyon Dam is operated in a manner consistent with section 1802.
  (2) Each year after the date of the adoption of criteria and operating
  plans pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit to the
  Congress and to the Governors of the Colorado River Basin States a report,
  separate from and in addition to the report specified in section 602(b)
  of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968 on the preceding year and
  the projected year operations  undertaken pursuant to this Act.
  (3) In preparing the criteria and operating plans described in section 602(b)
  of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968 and in this subsection,
  the Secretary shall consult with the Governors of the Colorado River Basin
  States and with the general public, including--
  (A) representatives of academic and scientific communities;
  (B) environmental organizations;
  (C) the recreation industry; and
  (D) contractors for the purchase of Federal power produced at Glen
  Canyon Dam.
  (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Upon implementation of long-term operations under
  subsection (c), the Secretary shall submit to the Congress the environmental
  impact statement described in subsection (a) and a report describing
  the long-term operations and other reasonable mitigation measures taken
  to protect, mitigate adverse impacts to, and improve the condition of
  the natural, recreational, and cultural resources of the Colorado River
  downstream of Glen Canyon Dam.
  (e) ALLOCATION OF COSTS- The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with
  the Secretary of Energy, is directed to reallocate the costs of construction,
  operation, maintenance, replacement and emergency expenditures for Glen
  Canyon Dam among the purposes directed in section 1802 of this Act and the
  purposes established in the Colorado River Storage Project Act of April
  11, 1956 (70 Stat. 170). Costs allocated to section 1802 purposes shall be
  nonreimbursable. Except that in fiscal year 1993 through 1997 such costs
  shall be nonreimbursable only to the extent to which the Secretary finds the
  effect of all provisions of this Act is to increase net offsetting receipts;
  Provided, That if the Secretary finds in any such year that the enactment
  of this Act does cause a reduction in net offsetting receipts generated by
  all provisions of this Act, the costs allocated to section 1802 purposes
  shall remain reimbursable. The Secretary shall determine the effect of all
  the provisions of this Act and submit a report to the appropriate House and
  Senate committees by January 31 of each fiscal year, and such report shall
  contain for that fiscal year a detailed accounting of expenditures incurred
  pursuant to this Act, offsetting receipts generated by this Act, and any
  increase or reduction in net offsetting receipts generated by this Act.
SEC. 1805. LONG-TERM MONITORING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish and implement long-term
  monitoring programs and activities that will ensure that Glen Canyon Dam
  is operated in a manner consistent with that of section 1802.
  (b) RESEARCH- Long-term monitoring of Glen Canyon Dam shall include any
  necessary research and studies to determine the effect of the Secretary's
  actions under section 1804(c) on the natural, recreational, and cultural
  resources of Grand Canyon National Park and Glen Canyon National Recreation
  Area.
  (c) CONSULTATION- The monitoring programs and activities conducted under
  subsection (a) shall be established and implemented in consultation with--
  (1) the Secretary of Energy;
  (2) the Governors of the States of Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada,
  New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming;
  (3) Indian tribes; and
  (4) the general public, including representatives of academic and scientific
  communities, environmental organizations, the recreation industry, and
  contractors for the purchase of Federal power produced at Glen Canyon Dam.
SEC. 1806. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
  Nothing in this title is intended to affect in any way--
  (1) the allocations of water secured to the Colorado Basin States by any
  compact, law, or decree; or
  (2) any Federal environmental law, including the Endangered Species Act
  (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
SEC. 1807. STUDIES NONREIMBURSABLE.
  All costs of preparing the environmental impact statement described
  in section 1804, including supporting studies, and the long-term
  monitoring programs and activities described in section 1805 shall be
  nonreimbursable. The Secretary is authorized to use funds received from the
  sale of electric power and energy from the Colorado River Storage Project
  to prepare the environmental impact statement described in section 1804,
  including supporting studies, and the long-term monitoring programs and
  activities described in section 1805, except that such funds will be treated
  as having been repaid and returned to the general fund of the Treasury as
  costs assigned to power for repayment under section 5 of the Act of April
  11, 1956 (70 Stat. 170). Except that in fiscal year 1993 through 1997 such
  provisions shall take effect only to the extent to which the Secretary finds
  the effect of all the provisions of this Act is to increase net offsetting
  receipts; Provided, That if the Secretary finds in any such year that the
  enactment of this Act does cause a reduction in net offsetting receipts
  generated by all provisions of this Act, all costs described in this section
  shall remain reimbursable. The Secretary shall determine the effect of all
  the provisions of this Act and submit a report to the appropriate House and
  Senate committees by January 31 of each fiscal year, and such report shall
  contain for that fiscal year a detailed accounting of expenditures incurred
  pursuant to this Act, offsetting receipts generated by this Act, and any
  increase or reduction in net offsetting receipts generated by this Act.
SEC. 1808. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to
  carry out this title.
SEC. 1809. REPLACEMENT POWER.
  The Secretary of Energy in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior
  and with representatives of the Colorado River Storage Project power
  customers, environmental organizations and the States of Arizona, California,
  Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming shall identify economically
  and technically feasible methods of replacing any power generation that
  is lost through adoption of long-term operational criteria for Glen Canyon
  Dam as required by section 1804 of this title. The Secretary shall present
  a report of the findings, and implementing draft legislation, if necessary,
  not later than two years after adoption of long-term operating criteria. The
  Secretary shall include an investigation of the feasibility of adjusting
  operations at Hoover Dam to replace all or part of such lost generation. The
  Secretary shall include an investigation of the modifications or additions
  to the transmission system that may be required to acquire and deliver
  replacement power.
TITLE XIX--MID-DAKOTA RURAL WATER SYSTEM
SEC. 1901. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Mid-Dakota Rural Water System Act of 1992'.
SEC. 1902. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this title--
  (1) the term `feasibility study' means the study entitled `Mid-Dakota Rural
  Water System Feasibility Study and Report' dated November 1988 and revised
  January 1989 and March 1989, as supplemented by the `Supplemental Report
  for Mid-Dakota Rural Water System' dated March 1990 (which supplemental
  report shall control in the case of any inconsistency between it and the
  study and report), as modified to reflect consideration of the benefits
  of the water conservation programs developed and implemented under section
  1905 of this title;
  (2) the term `pumping and incidental operational requirements' means all
  power requirements incident to the operation of intake facilities, pumping
  stations, water treatment facilities, reservoirs, and pipelines up to the
  point of delivery of water by the Mid-Dakota Rural Water System to--
  (A) each entity that distributes water at retail to individual users; or
  (B) each rural use location;
  (3) the term `rural use location' includes a water use location--
  (A) that is located in or in the vicinity of a municipality identified in
  appendix A of the feasibility report, for which municipality and vicinity
  there was on December 31, 1988, no entity engaged in the business of
  distributing water at retail to users in that municipality or vicinity; and
  (B) that is one of no more than 40 water use locations in that municipality
  and vicinity;
  (4) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
  (5) the term `summer electrical season' means May through October of
  each year;
  (6) the term `water system' means the Mid-Dakota Rural Water System,
  substantially in accordance with the feasibility study;
  (7) the term `Western' means the Western Area Power Administration;
  (8) the term `wetland component' means the wetland development and
  enhancement component of the water system, substantially in accordance
  with the wetland component report; and
  (9) the term `wetland component report' means the report entitled `Wetlands
  Development and Enhancement Component of the Mid-Dakota Rural Water System'
  dated April 1990.
SEC. 1903. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR RURAL WATER SYSTEM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to make grants and loans to
  Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc., a nonprofit corporation, for the
  planning and construction of the water system.
  (b) SERVICE AREA- The water system shall provide for safe and adequate
  municipal, rural, and industrial water supplies; mitigation of wetland
  areas; and water conservation in Beadle County (including the city of
  Huron), Buffalo, Hand, Hughes, Hyde, Jerauld, Potter, Sanborn, Spink,
  and Sully Counties, and elsewhere in South Dakota.
  (c) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary shall make the grants and loans
  authorized by subsection (a) on terms and conditions equivalent to
  those applied by the Secretary of Agriculture in providing assistance
  to projects for the conservation, development, use, and control of water
  under section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act
  (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)), except to the extent that those terms and conditions
  are inconsistent with this title.
  (d) AMOUNT OF GRANTS- Grants made available under subsection (a) to
  Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc. and water conservation measures
  consistent with section 1905 of this title shall not exceed 85 percent of
  the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 1912 of this title.
  (e) Loan Terms-
  (1) a loan or loans made to Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc. under the
  provisions of this title shall be repaid, with interest, within thirty
  years from the date of each loan or loans and no penalty for pre-payment; and
  (2) interest on a loan or loans made under subsection (a) to Mid-Dakota
  Rural Water System, Inc-
  (A) shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of
  the weighted average yield of all interest bearing, marketable issues sold
  by the Treasury during the fiscal year in which the expenditures by the
  United States were made; and
  (B) shall not accrue during planning and construction of the water system,
  and the first payment on such a loan shall not be due until after completion
  of construction of the water system.
  (f) LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF CONSTRUCTION FUNDS- The Secretary shall
  not obligate funds for the construction of the Mid-Dakota Water Supply
  System until--
  (1) the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
  (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) have been met; and
  (2) a final engineering report has been prepared and submitted to the
  Congress for a period of not less than ninety days.
  (g) COORDINATION WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE-
  (1) The Secretary shall coordinate with the Secretary of Agriculture, to
  the maximum extent practicable, grant and loan assistance made under this
  section with similar assistance available under the Consolidated Farm and
  Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.).
  (2) The Secretary of Agriculture shall take into consideration grant and
  loan assistance available under this section when considering whether to
  provide similar assistance available under the Consolidated Farm and Rural
  Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.) to an applicant in the service
  area defined in subsection (b).
SEC. 1904. FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FOR WETLAND DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT.
  (a) INITIAL DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary shall make grants and otherwise
  make funds available to Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc. and other
  private, State, and Federal entities for the initial development of the
  wetland component.
  (b) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE- The Secretary shall make a grant, not to
  exceed $100,000 annually, to the Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc.,
  for the operation and maintenance of the wetland component.
  (c) NONREIMBURSEMENT- Funds provided under this section shall be
  nonreimbursable and nonreturnable.
SEC. 1905. WATER CONSERVATION.
  (a) WITHHOLDING OF FUNDS- The Secretary shall not obligate Federal funds
  for construction of the water system until the Secretary finds that
  non-Federal entities have developed and implemented water conservation
  programs throughout the service area of the water system.
  (b) PURPOSE OF PROGRAMS- The water conservation programs required by
  subsection (a) shall be designed to ensure that users of water from the
  water system will use the best practicable technology and management
  techniques to reduce water use and water system costs.
  (c) DESCRIPTION OF PROGRAMS- Such water conservation programs shall include
  (but are not limited to) adoption and enforcement of the following--
  (1) low consumption performance standards for all newly installed plumbing
  fixtures;
  (2) leak detection and repair programs;
  (3) metering for all elements and individual connections of the rural
  water supply systems to be accomplished within five years. (For purposes
  of this paragraph, residential buildings of more than four units may be
  considered as individual customers);
  (4) declining block rate schedules shall not be used for municipal households
  and special water users (as defined in the feasibility study);
  (5) public education programs; and
  (6) coordinated operation among each rural water system and the preexisting
  water supply facilities in its service area.
Such programs shall contain provisions for periodic review and revision,
in cooperation with the Secretary.
SEC. 1906. MITIGATION OF FISH AND WILDLIFE LOSSES.
  Mitigation for fish and wildlife losses incurred as a result of the
  construction and operation of the water system shall be on an acre-for-acre
  basis, based on ecological equivalency, concurrent with project construction.
SEC. 1907. USE OF PICK-SLOAN POWER.
  (a) IN GENERAL- From power designated for future irrigation and drainage
  pumping for the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin Program, Western shall
  make available the capacity and energy required to meet the pumping and
  incidental operational requirements of the water system during the summer
  electrical season.
  (b) CONDITIONS- The capacity and energy described in subsection (a) shall
  be made available on the following conditions:
  (1) The water system shall be operated on a not-for-profit basis.
  (2) The water system shall contract to purchase its entire electric service
  requirements, including the capacity and energy made available under
  subsection (a), from a cooperative power supplier which purchases power
  from a cooperative power supplier which itself purchases power from Western.
  (3) The rate schedule applicable to the capacity and energy made available
  under subsection (a) shall be Western's Pick-Sloan Eastern Division Firm
  Power Rate Schedule in effect when the power is delivered by Western.
  (4) It shall be agreed by contract among--
  (A) Western;
  (B) the power supplier with which the water system contracts under paragraph
  (2);
  (C) that entity's power supplier; and
  (D) Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc.;
that for the capacity and energy made available under subsection (a), the
benefit of the rate schedule described in paragraph (3) shall be passed
through to the water system, but the water system's power supplier shall
not be precluded from including in its charges to the water system for such
electric service its other usual and customary charges.
  (5) Mid-Dakota Rural Water System, Inc., shall pay its power supplier for
  electric service, other than for capacity and energy supplied pursuant
  to subsection (a), in accordance with the power supplier's applicable
  rate schedule.
SEC. 1908. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
  This title shall not be construed to limit authorization for water projects
  in the State of South Dakota under existing law or future enactments.
SEC. 1909. WATER RIGHTS.
  Nothing in this title shall be construed to--
  (1) invalidate or preempt State water law or an interstate compact
  governing water;
  (2) alter the rights of any State to any appropriated share of the waters
  of any body of surface or groundwater, whether determined by past or
  future interstate compacts or by past or future legislative or final
  judicial allocations;
  (3) preempt or modify any State or Federal law or interstate compact
  dealing with water quality or disposal; or
  (4) confer upon any non-Federal entity the ability to exercise any Federal
  right to the waters of any stream or to any groundwater resources.
SEC. 1910. USE OF GOVERNMENT FACILITIES.
  The use of and connection of water system facilities to Government
  facilities at the Oahe powerhouse and pumping plant and their use for
  the purpose of supplying water to the water system may be permitted to
  the extent that such use does not detrimentally affect the use of those
  Government facilities for the other purposes for which they are authorized.
SEC. 1911. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) WATER SYSTEM- There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
  $100,000,000 for the planning and construction of the water system under
  section 1903, plus such sums as are necessary to defray increases in
  development costs reflected in appropriate engineering cost indices after
  October 1, 1989, such sums to remain available under expended.
  (b) WETLAND COMPONENT- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary--
  (1) $2,756,000 for the initial development of the wetland component under
  section 1904; and
  (2) such sums as are necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
  wetland component, not exceeding $100,000 annually, under section 1904;
TITLE XX--LAKE ANDES-WAGNER/MARTY II, SOUTH DAKOTA
SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Lake Andes-Wagner/Marty II Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2002. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  (a) The Secretary, acting pursuant to existing authority under the
  Federal reclamation laws, shall, through the Bureau of Reclamation, and
  in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture and with the assistance
  and cooperation of an oversight committee consisting of representatives
  of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of Agriculture, Environmental
  Protection Agency, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
  Geological Survey, South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks, South
  Dakota Department of Water and Natural Resources, Yankton-Sioux Tribe, and
  the Lake Andes-Wagner Water Systems, Inc., carry out a demonstration program
  (hereinafter in this title the `Demonstration Program') in substantial
  accordance with the `Lake Andes-Wagner-Marty II Demonstration Program Plan
  of Study,' dated May 1990, a copy of which is on file with the Committee
  on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Interior
  and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives.
  (b) The objectives of the Demonstration Program shall include:
  (1) development of accurate and definitive means of quantifying projected
  irrigation and drainage requirements and providing reliable estimates of
  drainage return flow quality and quantity with respect to glacial till
  and other soils found in the specific areas to be served with irrigation
  water by the planned Lake Andes-Wagner Unit and Marty II Unit and which
  may also have application to the irrigation and drainage of similar soils
  found in other areas of the United States;
  (2) development of best management practices for the purpose of improving
  the efficiency of irrigation water use and developing and demonstrating
  management techniques and technologies for glacial till soils which
  will prevent or otherwise ameliorate the degradation of water quality by
  irrigation practices;
  (3) investigation and demonstration of the potential for development and
  enhancement of wetlands and fish and wildlife within and adjacent to the
  service areas of the planned Lake Andes-Wagner Unit and the Marty II Unit
  through the application of water and other management practices;
  (4) investigation and demonstration of the suitability of glacial till
  soils for crop production under irrigation, giving special emphasis to
  crops of agricultural commodities for which an acreage reduction program
  is not in effect under the provisions of the Agriculture Act of 1949 (7
  U.S.C. 1461 et seq.) or by any successor programs established for crop
  years subsequent to 1990.
  (c) Study sites shall be obtained through leases from landowners who
  voluntarily agree to participate in the Demonstration Program under the
  following conditions:
  (1) rentals paid under a lease shall be based on the fair rental market value
  prevailing for dry land farming of lands of similar quantity and quality
  plus a payment representing reasonable compensation for inconveniences to
  be encountered by the lessor;
  (2) the Demonstration Program shall provide for the--
  (A) supply of all water, delivery system, pivot systems and drains;
  (B) operate and maintain the irrigation system;
  (C) Secretary of Agriculture to supply all seed, fertilizers and pesticides
  and make standardized equipment available;
  (D) Secretary of Agriculture to determine crop rotations and cultural
  practices;
  (E) have unrestricted access to leased lands;
  (3) the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture may contract with the
  lessor and/or custom operators to accomplish agriculture work, which work
  shall be performed in accordance with the Demonstration Program;
  (4) no grazing may be performed on a study site;
  (5) crops grown shall be the property of the United States; and
  (6) at the conclusion of the lease, the lands involved will, to the extent
  practicable, be restored by the Secretary to their pre-leased condition
  at no expense to the lessor.
  (d) The Secretary of Agriculture shall offer crops grown under the
  Demonstration Program for sale to the highest bidder under terms and
  conditions to be prescribed by the Secretary. Any crops not sold shall
  be disposed of as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, except that
  no crop may be given away to any for-profit entity or farm operator. All
  receipts from crop sales shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit
  of the fund from which appropriations for the conduct of the Demonstration
  Program are derived.
  (e) The land from each ownership in a study site shall be established
  by the Secretary as a separate farm. The Secretary of Agriculture shall
  provide for lessors to preserve the cropland base and history on lands
  leased to the Demonstration Project under the same terms and conditions
  provided for under section 1236(b) of the Food Security Act of 1985 (7
  U.S.C. 3836(b)). Establishment of such study site farms shall not entitle
  the Secretary to participate in farm programs or to build program base.
  (f) The Secretary shall periodically, but not less often than once a year,
  report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate,
  to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on
  Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and to the Governor of South
  Dakota concerning the activities undertaken pursuant to this section. The
  Secretary's reports and other information and data developed pursuant to this
  section shall be available to the public without charge. Each Demonstration
  Program report, including the report referred to in paragraph (3) of this
  subsection, shall evaluate data covering the results of the Demonstration
  Program as carried out on the six study sites during the period covered
  by the report together with data developed under the wetlands enhancement
  aspect during that period. The demonstration phase of the Demonstration
  Program shall terminate at the conclusion of the fifth full irrigation
  season. Promptly thereafter, the Secretary shall:
  (1) remove temporary facilities and equipment and restore the study sites
  as nearly as practicable to their prelease condition. The Secretary may
  transfer the pumping plant and/or distribution lines to public agencies
  for uses other than commercial irrigation if so doing would be less costly
  than removing such equipment;
  (2) otherwise wind up the Demonstration Program; and
  (3) prepare, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, a concluding
  report and recommendations covering the entire demonstration phase,
  which report shall be transmitted by the Secretary to the Congress and
  to the Governor of South Dakota not later than April 1 of the calendar
  year following the calendar year in which the demonstration phase of
  the Demonstration Program terminates. The Secretary's concluding report,
  together with other information and data developed in the course of the
  Demonstration Program, shall be available to the public without charge.
  (g) Costs of the Demonstration Program funded by Congressional appropriations
  shall be accounted for pursuant to the Act of October 29, 1971 (85
  Stat. 416). Costs incurred by the State of South Dakota and any agencies
  thereof arising out of consultation and participation in the Demonstration
  Program shall not be reimbursed by the United States.
  (h) Funding to cover expenses of the Federal agencies participating in the
  Demonstration Program shall be included in the budget submittals for the
  Bureau of Reclamation. The Secretary, using only funds appropriated for
  the Demonstration Program, shall transfer to the other Federal agencies
  funds appropriated for their expenses.
SEC. 2003. PLANNING REPORTS-ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENTS.
  (a) On the basis of the concluding report and recommendations of the
  Demonstration Program provided for in section 2002, the Secretary, with
  respect to the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit and the Marty II Unit, shall comply
  with the study and reporting requirements of the National Environmental
  Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and regulations issued to
  implement the provisions thereof. The final reports prepared under this
  subsection shall be transmitted to the Congress simultaneously with their
  filing with the Environmental Protection Agency.
  (b) Each report prepared under subsection (a) shall include a detailed plan
  providing for the prevention or avoidance of adverse water quality conditions
  attributable to agricultural drainage water originating from lands to be
  irrigated by the Unit to which the report pertains. The Secretary shall
  not recommend that any funds be appropriated for construction of such
  Unit unless the respective report prepared pursuant to subsection (a)
  is accompanied by findings by the Secretary of Agriculture, the Director
  of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Administrator of
  the Environmental Protection Agency that the Unit to which the report
  pertains can be constructed, operated and maintained so as to comply
  with all applicable water quality standards and avoid significant adverse
  effects to fish and wildlife resulting from the bioaccumulation of selenium.
  (c) The construction of a Unit may not be undertaken until the final report
  pertaining to that Unit, and the findings referred to in subsection (b) of
  this section, have lain before the Congress for not less than one hundred
  and eighty days and the Congress has appropriated funds for the initiation
  of construction.
SEC. 2004. AUTHORIZATION OF THE LAKE ANDES-WAGNER UNIT AND THE MARTY II UNIT,
SOUTH DAKOTA.
  Subject to the requirements of section 2003 of this title, the Secretary
  is authorized to construct, operate, and maintain the Lake Andes-Wagner
  Unit and the Marty II Unit, South Dakota, as units of the South Dakota
  Pumping Divisions, Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program. The units shall be
  integrated physically and financially with other Federal works constructed
  under the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program.
SEC. 2005. CONDITIONS.
  (a) The Lake Andes-Wagner Unit shall be constructed, operated and maintained
  to irrigate not more than approximately 45,000 acres substantially as
  provided in the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit Planning Report--Final Environmental
  Impact Statement filed September 17, 1985, supplemented as provided in
  section 2003 of this title. The Lake Andes-Wagner Unit shall include
  on-farm pumps, irrigation sprinkler systems, and other on-farm facilities
  necessary for the irrigation of not to exceed approximately 1,700 acres
  of Indian-owned lands. The use of electric power and energy required to
  operate the facilities for the irrigation of such Indian-owned lands and
  to provide pressurization for such Indian-owned lands shall be considered
  to be a project use.
  (b) The Marty II Unit shall include a river pump, irrigation distribution
  system, booster pumps, irrigation sprinkler systems, farm and project drains,
  electrical distribution facilities, and the pressurization to irrigate not
  more than approximately three thousand acres of Indian-owned land in the
  Yankton-Sioux Indian Reservation, substantially as provided in the final
  report for the Marty II Unit prepared pursuant to section 2003 of this title.
  (c) The construction costs of the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit allocated to
  irrigation of non-Indian owned lands (both those assigned for return
  by the water users and those assigned for return from power revenues
  of the Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program) shall be repaid no later than
  forty years following a determination by the Secretary that the project
  is substantially complete. Repayment of the construction costs of the
  Lake Andes-Wagner Unit apportioned to serving Indian-owned lands and of
  the Marty II Unit allocated to irrigation shall be governed by the Act of
  July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564, Chapter 369; 25 U.S.C. 386a).
  (d) Indian-owned lands, or interests therein, required for the Lake
  Andes-Wagner Unit or the Marty II Unit may, as an alternative to their
  acquisition pursuant to existing authority under the Federal reclamation
  laws, be acquired by exchange for land or interests therein of equal or
  greater value which are owned by the United States and administered by
  the Secretary or which may be acquired for that purpose by the Secretary.
  (e) For purposes of participation of lands in the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit
  and the Marty II Unit in programs covered by title V of the Agriculture Act
  of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1461, et seq.) as amended by subtitle A of title XI of
  the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 the crop acreage
  base determined under title V of that Act as so amended and the program
  payment yield determined under title V of that Act as so amended shall be
  the crop acreage base and program payment yield established for the crop
  year immediately preceding the crop year in which the development period for
  each Unit is initiated. For any successor programs established for crop years
  subsequent to 1995, the acreage and yield on which any program payments are
  based shall be determined without taking into consideration any increase in
  acreage or yield resulting from the construction and operation of the Units.
  (f) Mitigation of fish and wildlife losses incurred as a result of the
  construction and operation of the facilities authorized by this section
  shall be concurrent with the construction of the Unit involved and shall
  be on an acre-for-acre basis, based on ecological equivalency. In addition
  to the fish and wildlife enhancement to be provided by the fish rearing
  pond of the Lake Andes Unit, other facilities of that Unit may be utilized
  to provide fish and wildlife benefits beyond the mitigation required to
  the extent that such benefits may be provided without increasing costs of
  construction, operation, maintenance or replacement allocable to irrigation
  or impairing the efficiency of that Unit for irrigation purposes.
SEC. 2006. INDIAN EMPLOYMENT.
  In carrying out sections 2002, 2004 and 2005 of this title, preference
  shall be given to the employment of members of the Yankton-Sioux Tribe
  who can perform the work required regardless of age (subject to existing
  laws and regulations), sex, or religion, and to the extent feasible in
  connection with the efficient performance of such functions, training and
  employment opportunities shall be provided to members of the Yankton-Sioux
  Tribe regardless of age (subject to existing laws and regulations), sex,
  or religion who are not fully qualified to perform such functions.
SEC. 2007. FEDERAL RECLAMATION LAWS GOVERN.
  This title is a supplement to the Federal reclamation laws (Act of June
  17, 1902, 32 Stat. 388, and Acts supplemental thereto and amendatory
  thereof). The Federal reclamation laws shall govern all functions undertaken
  pursuant to this title, except as otherwise provided in this title.
SEC. 2008. COST SHARING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized and directed to enter into
  negotiations with State and local interests for an agreement providing for
  the equitable sharing of the costs of constructing the Lake Andes-Wagner
  Unit.
  (b) The agreement shall include provisions for:
  (1) the establishment and capitalization of the non-Federal fund, including,
  subject to the Secretary's approval, investment policies and selection
  of the administering financial institution, and including also provisions
  dealing with withdrawals of moneys in the fund for construction purposes;
  (2) the District to administer the design and construction, which shall be
  subject to the approval of the Secretary, of the distribution and drainage
  systems for the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit;
  (3) financing, from moneys in the fund referred to in paragraph (1),
  the construction cost of the ring dike; and
  (4) financing, from moneys in the fund referred to in paragraph (1),
  the construction cost of the Unit's closed drainage system; subject to
  the conditions that:
  (A) construction of the closed drainage system shall commence not earlier
  than the sixth year of full operation of the Unit and shall continue over
  a period of thirty-five years as required by the Secretary subject to such
  modifications in the commencement date and the construction period as the
  Secretary determines to be required on the basis of physical conditions; and
  (B) the District, in addition to such annual assessment as may be required
  to meet its expenses (including operation and maintenance costs and any
  annual repayment installments to the United States) shall, commencing
  three years after issuance by the Secretary of a notice that construction
  of the Unit (other than drainage facilities) has been completed, levy
  assessments annually of not less than $1.00 per irrigable acre calculated
  to provide moneys sufficient, together with other moneys in the fund,
  including anticipated accruals, referred to in paragraph (1), to finance
  the construction of the closed drainage system.
  (c) Notwithstanding any other requirements of this section, the Secretary
  shall require that the agreement to be negotiated pursuant to this section
  shall provide that the total non-Federal share of the costs of construction
  allocable to irrigation of the facilities of the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit
  to be constructed pursuant to subsection (a) of section 2004 of this title
  (other than the costs apportionable to serving Indian-owned lands and the
  facilities described in the second sentence of that subsection) shall be
  30 percent. The 30 percent non-Federal share shall include:
  (1) funds to be deposited in the non-Federal fund referred to in paragraph
  (1) of subsection (b) of this section and interest earned thereon;
  (2) all funds heretofore or hereafter made available to the United States
  by non-Federal interests, or expended by such interests, for planning
  or advance planning assistance for the Lake Andes-Wagner Unit or for the
  Marty II Unit; and
  (3) any feature to which this section applies shall not be initiated until
  after the District and the State have entered into the cost-share agreement
  with the United States required by this section.
SEC. 2009. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) LAKE ANDES-WAGNER UNIT- There are authorized to be appropriated,
  subject to the findings required pursuant to section 2003(b) of this title--
  (1) $175,000,000 (October 1989 price levels) for construction of the
  Lake Andes-Wagner Unit (other than the facilities described in the
  second sentence of subsection (a) of section 2005 of this title) less
  the non-Federal contributions as provided in subsections (b) and (c)
  of section 2008 of this title; and
  (2) $1,350,000 (October 1989 price levels) for construction of the facilities
  described in the second sentence of subsection (a) of section 2005 of this
  title, which amounts include costs of the Lake Andes-Wagner Irrigation
  District in administering design and construction of the irrigation
  distribution and drainage systems.
  (b) MARTY II UNIT- There are authorized to be appropriated $24,000,000
  (January 1989 price levels) for construction by the Bureau of Reclamation
  in consultation with the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Marty II Unit.
  (c) The amounts authorized to be appropriated by subsections (a) and
  (b) of this section shall be plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may
  be required by reason of changes in construction costs as indicated by
  engineering cost indices applicable to the type of construction involved.
  (d) DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM- There are authorized to be appropriated such
  amounts as may be necessary to carry out the Demonstration Program.
  (e) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE- There are authorized to be appropriated such
  amounts as may be necessary for the operation and maintenance of each Unit.
SEC. 2010. INDIAN WATER RIGHTS.
  Nothing in this title shall be construed as affecting any water rights or
  claims thereto of the Yankton-Sioux tribe.
TITLE XXI--RIO GRANDE FLOODWAY, SAN ACACIA TO BOSQUE DEL APACHE UNIT,
NEW MEXICO
SEC. 2101. CLARIFICATION OF COST-SHARE REQUIREMENTS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the project for flood control,
  Rio Grande Floodway, San Acacia to Bosque del Apache Unit, New Mexico,
  authorized by section 203 of the Flood Control Act of 1948 (Public Law
  80-858) and amended by section 204 of the Flood Control Act of 1950 (Public
  Law 82-516) is modified to more equitably reflect the non-Federal benefits
  from the project in relation to the total benefits of the project by reducing
  the non-Federal contribution for the project by that percentage of benefits
  which is attributable to the Federal properties: Provided, however, That the
  Federal property benefits exceed 50 per centum of the total project benefits.
TITLE XXII--SUNNYSIDE VALLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT, WASHINGTON
SEC. 2201. CONVEYANCE TO SUNNYSIDE VALLEY IRRIGATION DISTRICT.
  The Secretary of the Interior shall convey to Sunnyside Valley Irrigation
  District of Sunnyside, Washington, by quitclaim deed or other appropriate
  instrument and without consideration, all right, title, and interest
  of the United States, excluding oil, gas, and other mineral deposits,
  in and to a parcel of public land described at lots 1 and 2 of block 34
  of the town of Sunnyside in section 25, township 10 north, range 22 east,
  Willamette Meridian, Washington.
TITLE XXIII--PLATORO RESERVOIR AND DAM, SAN LUIS VALLEY PROJECT, COLORADO
SEC. 2301. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS.
  The Congress finds that and declares the following:
  (1) Platoro Dam and Reservoir of the Platoro Unit of the Conejos Division
  of the San Luis Valley Project was built in 1951 and for all practical
  purposes has not been usable because of the constraints imposed by the
  Rio Grande Compact of 1939 on the use of the Rio Grande River among the
  States of Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas.
  (2) The usefulness of Platoro Reservoir under future compact compliance
  depends upon the careful conservation and wise management of water and
  requires the operation of the reservoir project in conjunction with
  privately owned water rights of the local water users.
  (3) It is in the best interest of the people of the United States to--
  (A) transfer operation, maintenance, and replacement responsibility for the
  Platoro Dam and Reservoir to the Conejos Water Conservancy District of the
  State of Colorado, which is the local water user district with repayment
  responsibility to the United States, and the local representative of the
  water users with privately owned water rights;
  (B) relieve the people of the United States from further risk or obligation
  in connection with the collection of construction charge repayments and
  annual operation and maintenance payments for the Platoro Dam and Reservoir
  by providing for payment of a one-time fee to the United States in lieu
  of the scheduled annual payments and termination of any further repayment
  obligation to the United States and the District (Contract Number I1r-1529,
  as amended); and
  (C) determine such one-time fee, taking into account the assumption by the
  District of all of the operations and maintenance costs associated with the
  reservoir, including the existing Federal obligation for the operation and
  maintenance of the reservoir for flood control purposes, and maintaining
  a minimum stream flow as provided in section 2302(d) of this title.
SEC. 2302. TRANSFER OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY OF PLATORO
RESERVOIR.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized and directed to undertake
  the following:
  (1) Accept a one-time payment of $450,000 from the district in lieu of the
  repayment obligation of paragraphs 8(d) and 11 of the Repayment Contract
  between the United States and the District (Number I1r-1529) as amended.
  (2) Enter into an agreement for the transfer of all of the operation and
  maintenance functions of the Platoro Dam and Reservoir, including the
  operation and maintenance of the reservoir for flood control purposes,
  to the District. The agreement shall provide--
  (A) that the District will have the exclusive responsibility for operations
  and the sole obligation for all of the maintenance of the reservoir in
  a satisfactory condition for the life of the reservoir subject to review
  of such maintenance by the Secretary to ensure compliance with reasonable
  operation, maintenance and dam safety requirements as they apply to Platoro
  Dam, and Reservoir under Federal and State law; and,
  (B) that the District shall have the exclusive use and sole responsibility
  for maintenance of all associated facilities, including outlet works,
  remote control equipment, spillway, and land and buildings in the Platoro
  townsite. The District shall have sole responsibility for maintaining
  the land and buildings in a condition satisfactory to the United States
  Forest Service.
  (b) TITLE- Title to the Platoro Dam and Reservoir and all associated
  facilities shall remain with the United States, and authority to make
  recreational use of Platoro Dam and Reservoir shall be under the control and
  supervision of the United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
  (c) AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACT- The Secretary is authorized to enter into such
  other amendments to such contract Number I1r-1529, as amended, necessary
  to facilitate the intended operations of the project by the District. All
  applicable provisions of the Federal reclamation laws shall remain in
  effect with respect to such contract.
  (d) CONDITIONS IMPOSED UPON THE DISTRICT- The transfer of operation and
  maintenance responsibility under subsection (a) shall be subject to the
  following conditions:
  (1)(A) The district will, after consultation with the United States Forest
  Service, Department of Agriculture, operate the Platoro Dam and Reservoir
  in such a way as to provide--
  (i) that releases of bypass from the reservoir flush out the channel of
  the Conejos River periodically in the spring or early summer to maintain
  the hydrologic regime of the river; and
  (ii) that any releases from the reservoir contribute to even flows in the
  river as far as possible from October 1 to December 1 so as to be sensitive
  to the brown trout spawn.
  (B) Operation of the Platoro Dam and Reservoir by the District for water
  supply uses (including storage and exchange of water rights owned by
  the District or its constituents), interstate compact and flood control
  purposes shall be senior and paramount to the channel flushing and fishery
  objectives referred to in subparagraph (A).
  (2) The District will provide and maintain a permanent pool in the
  Platoro Reservoir for fish, wildlife, and recreation purposes, in the
  amount of three thousand acre-feet, including the initial filling of the
  pool and periodic replenishment of seepage and evaporation loss: Provided,
  however,  That if necessary to maintain the winter instream flow provided
  in subparagraph (3), the permanent pool may be allowed to be reduced to
  two thousand four hundred acre-feet.
  (3) In order to preserve fish and wildlife habitat below Platoro Reservoir,
  the District shall maintain releases of water from Platoro Reservoir of
  seven cubic feet per second during the months of October through April and
  shall bypass forty cubic feet per second or natural inflow, whichever is
  less, during the months of May through September.
  (4) The United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture, is
  directed to regularly monitor operation of Platoro Reservoir, including
  releases from it for instream flow purposes, and to enforce the provisions
  of this subsection under the laws, regulations, and rules applicable to
  the National Forest System.
  (e) FLOOD CONTROL MANAGEMENT- The Secretary of the Army, acting through the
  Chief of Engineers, shall retain exclusive authority over Platoro Dam and
  Reservoir for flood control purposes and shall direct the District in the
  operation of the dam for such purposes. To the extent possible, management
  by the Secretary of the Army under this subsection shall be consistent
  with the water supply use of the reservoir, with the administration of
  the Rio Grande Compact of 1939 by the Colorado State Engineer and with the
  provisions of subsection (d) hereof. The Secretary of the Army shall enter
  into a Letter of Understanding with the District and the United States
  Bureau of Reclamation prior to transfer of operations which details the
  responsibility of each party and specifies the flood control criteria for
  the reservoir.
  (f) COMPLIANCE WITH COMPACT AND OTHER LAWS- The transfer under section
  2302 shall be subject to the District's compliance with the Rio Grande
  Compact of 1939 and all other applicable laws and regulations, whether of
  the State of Colorado or of the United States.
SEC. 2303. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title--
  (1) the term `District' means the Conejos Water Conservancy District of
  the State of Colorado;
  (2) the term `Federal reclamation laws' means the Act of June 17, 1902
  (32 Stat. 388), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof;
  (3) the term `Platoro Reservoir' means the Platoro Dam and Reservoir of
  the Platoro Unit of the Conejos Division of the San Luis Valley Project; and
  (4) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
TITLE XXIV--REDWOOD VALLEY COUNTY WATER DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA
SEC. 2401. SALE OF BUREAU OF RECLAMATION LOANS.
  (a) The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this title referred to
  as the `Secretary') shall conduct appropriate investigations regarding,
  and is authorized to, sell, or accept prepayment on, loans made pursuant
  to the Small Reclamation Projects Act (43 U.S.C. 422a-422l) to the Redwood
  Valley County Water District.
  (b) Any sale or prepayment of such loans, which are numbered 14-06-200-8423A
  and 14-06-200-842A Amendatory to the Redwood Valley County Water District,
  shall realize an amount to the Federal Government calculated by discounting
  the remaining payments due on the loans by the interest rate determined
  according to this section.
  (c) The Secretary shall determine the interest rate in accordance with the
  guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 issued by the Office of Management
  and Budget concerning loan sales and prepayment of loans.
  (d) In determining the interest rate, the Secretary--
  (1) shall not equate an appropriate amount of prepayment with the price
  of the loan if it were to be sold on the open market to a third party, and
  (2) shall, in following the guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 regarding
  an allowance for administrative expenses and possible losses, make such an
  allowance from the perspective of the Federal Government as lender and not
  from the perspective of a third party purchasing the loan on the open market.
  (e) If the borrower or purchaser of the loan has access to tax-exempt
  financing (including, but not limited to, tax-exempt bonds, tax-exempt
  cash reserves, and cash and loans of any kind from any tax-exempt entity)
  to finance the transaction, and if the Office of Management and Budget
  grants the Secretary the right to conduct such a transaction, then the
  interest rate by which the Secretary discounts the remaining payments due
  on the loan shall be adjusted by an amount that compensates the Federal
  Government for the direct or indirect loss of future tax revenues.
  (f) Notwithstanding any other provision in this title, the interest rate
  shall not exceed a composite interest rate consisting of the current market
  yield on Treasury securities of comparable maturities.
  (g) The Secretary shall obtain approval from the Secretary of the Treasury
  and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of the final terms
  of any loan sale or prepayment made pursuant to this title.
SEC. 2402. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
  Nothing in this title, including prepayment or other disposition of any
  loans, shall--
  (a) except to the extent that prepayment may have been authorized heretofore,
  relieve the borrower from the applications of the provisions of the Federal
  Reclamation Law (Act of June 17, 1902, and Acts amendatory thereof or
  supplementary thereto, including the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982),
  including acreage limitations, to the extent such provisions would apply
  absent such prepayment; or
  (b) authorize the transfer of title to any federally owned facilities
  funded by the loans specified in section 2201 of this title without a
  specific Act of Congress.
SEC. 2403. FEES AND EXPENSES OF PROGRAM.
  In addition to the amount to be realized by the United States as provided
  in section 2201, the Redwood Valley County Water District shall pay all
  reasonable fees and expenses incurred by the Secretary relative to the sale.
SEC. 2404. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.
  The authority granted by this title to sell loans shall terminate two
  years after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That the borrower
  shall have at least sixty days to respond to any prepayment offer made by
  the Secretary.
TITLE XXV--UNITED WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA
SEC. 2501. SALE OF THE FREEMAN DIVERSION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT LOAN.
  (a) AGREEMENT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall conduct appropriate investigations
  regarding, and is authorized to sell, or accept prepayment on, the loan
  contract described in paragraph (2) to the United Water Conservation
  District in California (referred to in this title as the `District')
  for the Freeman Diversion Improvement Project.
  (2) LOAN CONTRACT- The loan contract described in paragraph (1) is numbered
  7-07-20-W0615 and was entered into pursuant to the Small Reclamation
  Projects Act of 1956 (43 U.S.C. 422a et seq.).
  (b) PAYMENT- Any agreement negotiated pursuant to subsection (a) shall
  realize an amount to the Federal Government calculated by discounting
  the remaining payments due on the loans by the interest rate determined
  according to this section.
  (c) The Secretary shall determine the interest rate in accordance with the
  guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 issued by the Office of Management
  and Budget concerning loan sales and prepayment of loans.
  (d) In determining the interest rate, the Secretary--
  (1) shall not equate an appropriate amount of prepayment with the price
  of the loan if it were to be sold on the open market to a third party, and
  (2) shall, in following the guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 regarding
  an allowance for administrative expenses and possible losses, make such an
  allowance from the perspective of the Federal Government as lender and not
  from the perspective of a third party purchasing the loan on the open market.
  (e) If the borrower or purchaser of the loan has access to tax-exempt
  financing (including, but not limited to, tax-exempt bonds, tax-exempt
  cash reserves, and cash and loans of any kind from any tax-exempt entity)
  to finance the transaction, and if the Office of Management and Budget
  grants the Secretary the right to conduct such a transaction, then the
  interest rate by which the Secretary discounts the remaining payments due
  on the loan shall be adjusted by an amount that compensates the Federal
  Government for the direct or indirect loss of future tax revenues.
  (f) Notwithstanding any other provision in this title, the interest rate
  shall not exceed a composite interest rate consisting of the current market
  yield on Treasury securities of comparable maturities.
  (g) The Secretary shall obtain approval from the Secretary of the Treasury
  and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of the final terms
  of any loan sale or prepayment made pursuant to this title.
SEC. 2502. TERMINATION AND CONVEYANCE OF RIGHTS.
  Upon receipt of the payment specified in section 2301(b)--
  (1) the District's obligation under the loan contract described in section
  2301(a)(2) shall be terminated;
  (2) the Secretary of the Interior shall convey all right and interest
  of the United States in the Freeman Diversion Improvement Project to the
  District; and
  (3) the District shall absolve the United States, and its officers and
  agents, of any liability associated with the Freeman Diversion Improvement
  Project.
SEC. 2503. TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.
  The authority granted by this title to sell loans shall terminate two
  years after the date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That the borrower
  shall have at least sixty days to respond to any prepayment offer made by
  the Secretary.
TITLE XXVI--HIGH PLAINS GROUNDWATER PROGRAM
SEC. 2601. HIGH PLAINS STATES GROUNDWATER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM ACT.
  The High Plains States Groundwater Demonstration Program Act of 1983
  (43 U.S.C. 390g-1 et seq.) is amended as follows:
  (1) Section 4(c)(2) and section 5 are each amended by striking `final
  report' each place it appears and inserting `summary report'.
  (2) Section 4(c) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(3) In addition to recommendations made under section 3, the Secretary shall
  make additional recommendations for design, construction, and operation
  of demonstration projects. Such projects are authorized to be designed,
  constructed, and operated in accordance with subsection (a).
  `(4) Each project under this section shall terminate five years after the
  date on which construction on the project is completed.
  `(5) At the conclusion of phase II the Secretary shall submit a final
  report to the Congress which shall include, but not be limited to, a
  detailed evaluation of the projects under this section.'.
  (3) Section 7 is amended by striking `$20,000,000 (October 1983 price
  levels)' and inserting in lieu thereof `$31,000,000 (October 1990 price
  levels) plus or minus such amounts, if any, as may be required by reason
  of ordinary fluctuations in construction costs as indicated by engineering
  cost indexes applicable to the type of construction involved herein'.
TITLE XXVII--MONTANA IRRIGATION PROJECTS
SEC. 2701. PICK-SLOAN PROJECT PUMPING POWER.
  (a) The Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the Secretary of
  Energy, shall make available, as soon as practicable after the date of
  enactment of this Act, project pumping power from the Pick-Sloan Missouri
  River Basin Program (authorized by section 9 of the Act entitled `An
  Act authorizing the construction of certain public works on rivers and
  harbors for flood control, and for other purposes' approved December 22,
  1944 (58 Stat. 891) (commonly known as the `Flood Control Act of 1944')
  to two existing non-Federal irrigation projects known as the--
  (1) Haidle Irrigation Project, Prairie County, Montana; and
  (2) Hammond Irrigation District, Rosebud County, Montana.
Provided, That the two districts are determined by the Secretary of Energy to
be public agencies, as that term is used in section 9(c) of the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939, 43 U.S.C. section 485h(c).
  (b) Power made available under this section shall be at the firm power rate.
TITLE XXVIII--RECLAMATION RECREATION MANAGEMENT ACT
SEC. 2801. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Reclamation Recreation Management Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2802. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds and declares the following:
  (1) There is a Federal responsibility to provide opportunities for public
  recreation at Federal water projects.
  (2) Some provisions of the Federal Water Project Recreation Act are outdated
  because of increases in demand for outdoor recreation and changes in the
  economic climate for recreation managing entities.
  (3) Provisions of such Act relating to non-Federal responsibility for all
  costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement of recreation facilities
  result in an unfair burden, especially in cases where the facilities are
  old or underdesigned.
  (4) Provisions of such Act that limit the Federal share of recreation
  facility development at water projects completed before 1965 to $100,000
  preclude a responsible Federal share in providing adequate opportunities
  for safe outdoor recreation.
  (5) There should be Federal authority to expand existing recreation
  facilities to meet public demand, in partnership with non-Federal interests.
  (6) Nothing in this title changes the responsibility of the Bureau to
  meet the purposes for which Federal Reclamation projects were initially
  authorized and constructed.
  (7) It is therefore in the best interest of the people of this Nation
  to amend the Federal Water Project Recreation Act to remove outdated
  restrictions and authorize the Secretary of the Interior to undertake
  specific measures for the management of Reclamation lands.
SEC. 2803. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this title:
  (1) The term `Reclamation lands' means real property administered by the
  Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, and includes
  all acquired and withdrawn lands and water areas under jurisdiction of
  the Bureau.
  (2) The term `Reclamation program' means any activity authorized under the
  Federal reclamation laws (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter
  1093; 43 U.S.C. 371)), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory
  thereof).
  (3) The term `Reclamation project' means any water supply or water delivery
  project constructed or administered by the Bureau of Reclamation under the
  Federal reclamation laws (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter
  1093; 43 U.S.C. 371), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof).
  (4) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 2804. AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL WATER PROJECT RECREATION ACT.
  (a) ALLOCATION OF COSTS- Section 2(a) of the Federal Water Project Recreation
  Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-13(a)) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph
  (1), by striking `all the costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement'
  and inserting `not less than one-half the costs of operation, maintenance,
  and replacement'.
  (b) RECREATION AND FISH AND WILDLIFE ENHANCEMENT- Section 3(b)(1) of the
  Federal Water Project Recreation Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-14(b)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `within ten years'; and
  (2) by striking `all costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement
  attributable' and inserting `not less than one-half the costs of planning
  studies, and the costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement
  attributable'.
  (c) LEASE OF FACILITIES- Section 4 of the Federal Water Project Recreation
  Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-15) is amended by striking `costs of operation,
  maintenance, and replacement of existing' and inserting `not less than
  one-half the costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement of existing'.
  (d) EXPANSION OR MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES- Section 3 of the
  Federal Water Project Recreation Act (16 U.S.C. 460l-14) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(c)(1) Any recreation facility constructed under this Act may be expanded
  or modified if--
  `(A) the facility is inadequate to meet recreational demands; and
  `(B) a non-Federal public body executes an agreement which provides that
  such public body--
  `(i) will administer the expanded or modified facilities pursuant to a
  plan for development for the project that is approved by the agency with
  administrative jurisdiction over the project; and
  `(ii) will bear not less than one-half of the planning and capital costs of
  such expansion or modification and not less than one-half of the costs of
  the operation, maintenance, and replacement attributable to the expansion
  of the facility.
  `(2) The Federal share of the cost of expanding or modifying a recreational
  facility described in paragraph (1) may not exceed 50 percent of the total
  cost of expanding or modifying the facility.'.
  (e) LIMITATION- Section 7(a) of the Federal Water Project Recreation Act
  (16 U.S.C. 460l-18(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `purposes: Provided,' and all that follows through the
  end of the sentence and inserting `purposes'; and
  (2) by striking `subsection 3(b)' and inserting `subsection (b) or (c)
  of section 3'.
SEC. 2805. MANAGEMENT OF RECLAMATION LANDS.
  (a) ADMINISTRATION- (1) Upon a determination that any such fee, charge,
  or commission is reasonable and appropriate, the Secretary acting through
  the Commissioner of Reclamation, is authorized to establish--
  (A) filing fees for applications and other documents concerning entry upon
  and use of Reclamation lands;
  (B) recreation user fees; and
  (C) charges or commissions for the use of Reclamation lands.
  (2) The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation, shall
  promulgate such regulations as the Secretary determines to be necessary--
  (A) to carry out the provisions of this section and section 2806;
  (B) to ensure the protection, comfort, and well-being of the public
  (including the protection of public safety) with respect to the use of
  Reclamation lands; and
  (C) to ensure the protection of resource values.
  (b) INVENTORY- The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation,
  is authorized to--
  (1) prepare and maintain on a continuing basis an inventory of resources
  and uses made of Reclamation lands and resources, keep records of such
  inventory, and make such records available to the public; and
  (2) ascertain the boundaries of Reclamation lands and provide a means
  for public identification (including, where appropriate, providing signs
  and maps).
  (c) PLANNING- (1)(A) The Secretary, acting through the Commissioner of
  Reclamation, is authorized to develop, maintain, and revise resource
  management plans for Reclamation lands.
  (B) Each plan described in subparagraph (A)--
  (i) shall be consistent with applicable laws (including any applicable
  statute, regulation, or Executive order);
  (ii) shall be developed in consultation with--
  (I) such heads of Federal and non-Federal departments or agencies as the
  Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
  (II) the authorized beneficiaries (as determined by the Secretary) of any
  Reclamation project included in the plan; and
  (iii) shall be developed with appropriate public participation.
  (C) Each plan described in subparagraph (A) shall provide for the
  development, use, conservation, protection, enhancement, and management
  of resources of Reclamation lands in a manner that is compatible with
  the authorized purposes of the Reclamation project associated with the
  Reclamation lands.
  (d) NONREIMBURSABLE FUNDS- Funds expended by the Secretary in carrying out
  the provisions of this title shall be nonreimbursable under the Federal
  reclamation laws (the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388, chapter 1093;
  43 U.S.C. 371), and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof).
SEC. 2806. PROTECTION OF AUTHORIZED PURPOSES OF RECLAMATION PROJECTS.
  (a) Nothing in this title shall be construed to change, modify, or expand
  the authorized purposes of any Reclamation project.
  (b) The expansion or modification of a recreational facility constructed
  under this title shall not increase the capital repayment responsibilities
  or operation and maintenance expenses of the beneficiaries of authorized
  purposes of the associated Reclamation project. The term `beneficiaries' does
  not include those entities who sign agreements or enter into contracts for
  recreation facilities pursuant to the Federal Water Project Recreation Act.
TITLE XXIX--SAN JUAN SUBURBAN WATER DISTRICT
SEC. 2901. REPAYMENT OF WATER PUMPS, SAN JUAN SUBURBAN WATER DISTRICT,
CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT,  CALIFORNIA.
  (a) WATER PUMP REPAYMENT- The Secretary shall credit to the unpaid capital
  obligation of the San Juan Suburban Water District (District), as calculated
  in accordance with the Central Valley Project ratesetting policy, an amount
  equal to the documented price paid by the District for pumps and motors
  provided by the District to the Bureau of Reclamation, in 1991 and 1992,
  for installation at Folsom Dam, Central Valley Project, California.
  (b) CONDITIONS- (1) The amount credited shall not include any indirect or
  overhead costs associated with the acquisition of the pumps and motors, such
  as those associated with the negotiation of a sales price or procurement
  contract, inspection, and delivery of the pumps and motors from the seller
  to the Bureau of Reclamation.
  (2) The credit is effective on the dates the pumps and motors were delivered
  to the Bureau of Reclamation for installation at Folsom Dam.
TITLE XXX--WESTERN WATER POLICY REVIEW
SEC. 3001. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Western Water Policy Review Act of 1992.'
SEC. 3002. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the Nation needs an adequate water supply for all states at a reasonable
  cost;
  (2) the demands on the Nation's finite water supply are increasing;
  (3) coordination on both the Federal level and the local level is needed
  to achieve water policy objectives;
  (4) not less than fourteen agencies of the Federal Government are currently
  charged with functions relating to the oversight of water policy;
  (5) the diverse authority over Federal water policy has resulted in unclear
  goals and an inefficient handling of the Nation's water policy;
  (6) the conflict between competing goals and objectives by Federal, State,
  and local agencies as well as by private water users is particularly acute
  in the nineteen Western States which have arid climates which include the
  seventeen reclamation States, Hawaii, and Alaska;
  (7) the appropriations doctrine of water allocation which characterizes
  most western water management regimes varies from State to State, and
  results in many instances in increased competition for limited resources;
  (8) the Federal Government has recognized and continues to recognize
  the primary jurisdiction of the several States over the allocation,
  priority, and use of water resources of the States, except to the extent
  such jurisdiction has been preempted in whole or in part by the Federal
  Government, including, but not limited to, express or implied Federal
  reserved water rights either for itself or for the benefit of Indian Tribes,
  and that the Federal Government will, in exercising its authorities,
  comply with applicable State laws;
  (9) the Federal Government recognizes its trust responsibilities to protect
  Indian water rights and assist Tribes in the wise use of those resources;
  (10) Federal agencies, such as the Bureau of Reclamation, have had, and
  will continue to have major responsibilities in assisting States in the
  wise management and allocation of scarce water resources; and
  (11) the Secretary of the Interior, given his responsibilities for management
  of public land, trust responsibilities for Indians, administration of
  the reclamation program, investigations and reviews into ground water
  resources through the Geologic Survey, and the Secretary of the Army, given
  his responsibilities for flood control, water supply, hydroelectric power,
  recreation, and fish and wildlife enhancement, have the resources to assist
  in a comprehensive review, in consultation with appropriate officials from
  the nineteen Western States, into the problems and potential solutions
  facing the nineteen Western States and the Federal Government in the
  increasing competition for the scarce water resources of the Western States.
SEC. 3003. PRESIDENTIAL REVIEW.
  (a) The President is directed to undertake a comprehensive review of
  Federal activities in the nineteen Western States which directly or
  indirectly affect the allocation and use of water resources, whether
  surface or subsurface, and to submit a report on the President's findings,
  together with recommendations, if any, to the Committees on Energy and
  Natural Resources, Environment and Public Works and Appropriations of the
  Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Public Works
  and Transportation, Merchant Marine and Fisheries and Appropriations of
  the House of Representatives.
  (b) Such report shall be submitted within three years from the date of
  enactment of this Act.
  (c) In conducting the review and preparing the report, the President is
  directed to consult with the Advisory Commission established under section
  3004 of this title, and may request the Secretary of the Interior and
  the Secretary of the Army or other Federal officials or the Commission
  to undertake such studies or other analyses as the President determines
  would assist in the review.
  (d) The President shall consult periodically with the Commission, and
  upon the request of the President, the heads of other Federal agencies
  are directed to cooperate with and assist the Commission in its activities.
SEC. 3004. THE ADVISORY COMMISSION.
  (a) The President shall appoint an Advisory Commission (hereafter in this
  title referred to as the `Commission') to assist in the preparation and
  review of the report required under this title.
  (b) The Commission shall be composed of eighteen members as follows:
  (1) Ten members appointed by the President including:
  (A) the Secretary of the Interior or his designee;
  (B) the Secretary of the Army or his designee;
  (C) at least one representative chosen from a list submitted by the Western
  Governors Association; and
  (D) at least one representative chosen from a list submitted by Tribal
  governments located in the Western States.
  (2) In addition to the ten members appointed by the President, twelve Members
  from the United States Congress shall serve as ex officio members of the
  Commission. For the United States Senate: the Chairmen and the Ranking
  Minority Members of the Committees on Energy and Natural Resources, and
  Appropriations, and the Subcommittee of the Committee on Energy and Natural
  Resources which has jurisdiction over the Bureau of Reclamation. For the
  United States House of Representatives: the Chairman and Ranking Minority
  Members of the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Public Works
  and Transportation, and Appropriations.
  (c) The President shall appoint one member of the Commission to serve
  as Chairman.
  (d) Any vacancy which may occur on the Commission shall be filled in the
  same manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (e) Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation but shall be
  reimbursed for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred
  by them in the performance of their duties.
SEC. 3005. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
  The Commission shall--
  (1) review present and anticipated water resource problems affecting
  the nineteen Western States, making such projections of water supply
  requirements as may be necessary and identifying alternative ways of
  meeting these requirements--giving considerations, among other things, to
  conservation and more efficient use of existing supplies, innovations to
  encourage the most beneficial use of water and recent technological advances;
  (2) examine the current and proposed Federal programs affecting such
  States and recommend to the President whether they should be continued or
  adopted and, if so, how they should be managed for the next twenty years,
  including the possible reorganization or consolidation of the current
  water resources development and management agencies;
  (3) review the problems of rural communities relating to water supply,
  potable water treatment, and wastewater treatment;
  (4) review the need and opportunities for additional storage or other
  arrangements to augment existing water supplies including, but not limited
  to, conservation;
  (5) review the history, use, and effectiveness of various institutional
  arrangements to address problems of water allocation, water quality,
  planning, flood control and other aspects of water development and use,
  including, but not limited to, interstate water compacts, Federal-State
  regional corporations, river basin commissions, the activities of the
  Water Resources Council, municipal and irrigation districts and other
  similar entities with specific attention to the authorities of the Bureau
  of Reclamation under reclamation law and the Secretary of the Army under
  water resources law;
  (6) review the legal regime governing the development and use of water
  and the respective roles of both the Federal Government and the States
  over the allocation and use of water, including an examination of riparian
  zones, appropriation and mixed systems, market transfers, administrative
  allocations, ground water management, interbasin transfers, recordation of
  rights, Federal-State relations including the various doctrines of Federal
  reserved water rights (including Indian water rights and the development
  in several States of the concept of a public trust doctrine); and
  (7) review the activities, authorities, and responsibilities of the various
  Federal agencies with direct water resources management responsibility,
  including but not limited to the Bureau of Reclamation, the Department
  of the Army, and those agencies whose decisions would impact on water
  resource availability and allocation, including, but not limited to,
  the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
SEC. 3006. REPRESENTATIVES.
  (a) The Chairman of the Commission shall invite the Governor of each Western
  State to designate a representative to work closely with the Commission
  and its staff in matters pertaining to this title.
  (b) The Commission, at its discretion, may invite appropriate public or
  private interest groups including, but not limited to, Indian and Tribal
  organizations to designate a representative to work closely with the
  Commission and its staff in matters pertaining to this title.
SEC. 3007. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
  (a) The Commission may--
  (1) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such
  testimony, and receive such evidence as it may deem advisable;
  (2) use the United States mail in the same manner and upon the same
  conditions as other departments and agencies of the United States;
  (3) enter into contracts or agreements for studies and surveys with public
  and private organizations and transfer funds to Federal agencies to carry
  out such aspects of the Commission's functions as the Commission determines
  can best be carried out in that manner; and
  (4) incur such necessary expenses and exercise such other powers as are
  consistent with and reasonably required to perform its functions under
  this title.
  (b) Any member of the Commission is authorized to administer oaths when
  it is determined by a majority of the Commission that testimony shall be
  taken or evidence received under oath.
  (c) The Commission shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the
  Commission and who shall be paid at a rate not to exceed the maximum rate
  of basic pay payable for level II of the Executive Schedule.
  (1) With the approval of the Commission, the Director may appoint and fix
  the pay of such personnel as the Director considers appropriate but only to
  the extent that such personnel cannot be obtained from the Secretary of the
  Interior or by detail from other Federal agencies. Such personnel may be
  appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
  governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid without
  regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53
  of such Title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
  (2) With the approval of the Commission, the Director may procure temporary
  and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5 of the United
  States Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent
  of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General
  Schedule.
  (d) The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Army shall
  provide such office space, furnishings and equipment as may be required
  to enable the Commission to perform its functions. The Secretary shall
  also furnish the Commission with such staff, including clerical support,
  as the Commission may require.
SEC. 3008. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CHAIRMAN.
  (a) Subject to general policies adopted by the Commission, the Chairman
  shall be the chief executive of the Commission and shall exercise its
  executive and administrative powers as set forth in paragraphs (2) through
  (4) of section 3007(a).
  (b) The Chairman may make such provisions as he shall deem appropriate
  authorizing the performance of any of his executive and administrative
  functions by the Director or other personnel of the Commission.
SEC. 3009. OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.
  (a) The Commission shall, to the extent practicable, utilize the services
  of the Federal water resource agencies.
  (b) Upon request of the Commission, the President may direct the head of
  any other Federal department or agency to assist the Commission and such
  head of any Federal department or agency is authorized--
  (1) to furnish to the Commission, to the extent permitted by law and within
  the limits of available funds, including funds transferred for that purpose
  pursuant to section 3007(a)(7) of this title, such information as may be
  necessary for carrying out its functions and as may be available to or
  procurable by such department or agency, and
  (2) to detail to temporary duty with the Commission on a reimbursable basis
  such personnel within his administrative jurisdiction as it may need or
  believe to be useful for carrying out its functions, each such detail to
  be without loss of seniority, pay, or other employee status.
  (c) Financial and administrative services (including those related to
  budgeting, accounting, financial reporting, personnel, and procurement)
  shall be provided the Commission by the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 3010. APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are hereby authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $10,000,000
  to carry out the purposes of sections 3001 through 3009 of this title.
TITLE XXXI--MOUNTAIN PARK MASTER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT, OKLAHOMA
SEC. 3101. PAYMENT BY MOUNTAIN PARK MASTER CONSERVANCY DISTRICT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall conduct appropriate investigations
  regarding, and is authorized to accept prepayment of, the repayment
  obligation of the District for the reimbursable construction costs of the
  project allocated to municipal and industrial water supply for the city,
  and, upon receipt of such prepayment, the District's obligation to the
  United States shall be reduced by the amount of such costs.
  (b) PAYMENT AMOUNT- Any prepayment made pursuant to subsection (a) shall
  realize an amount to the Federal Government calculated by discounting the
  remaining repayment obligation by the interest rate determined according
  to this section.
  (c) INTEREST RATE- The Secretary shall determine the interest rate in
  accordance with the guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 issued by
  the Office of Management and Budget concerning loan sales and prepayment
  of loans.
  (d) INVESTIGATIONS- In determining the interest rate, the Secretary--
  (1) shall not equate an appropriate amount of prepayment with the price
  of the loan if it were to be sold on the open market to a third party, and
  (2) shall, in following the guidelines set forth in Circular A-129 regarding
  an allowance for administrative expenses and possible losses, make such an
  allowance from the perspective of the Federal Government as lender and not
  from the perspective of a third party purchasing the loan on the open market.
  (e) TAX-EXEMPT FINANCING- If the borrower or purchaser of the loan has access
  to tax-exempt financing (including, but not limited to, tax-exempt bonds,
  tax-exempt cash reserves, and cash and loans of any kind from any tax-exempt
  entity) to finance the transaction, and if the Office of Management and
  Budget grants the Secretary the right to conduct such a transaction, then
  the interest rate by which the Secretary discounts the remaining payments
  due on the loan shall be adjusted by an amount that compensates the Federal
  Government for the direct or indirect loss of future tax revenues.
  (f) LIMIT ON INTEREST RATE- Notwithstanding any other provision in
  this title, the interest rate shall not exceed a composite interest rate
  consisting of the current market yield on Treasury securities of comparable
  maturities.
  (g) APPROVAL- The Secretary shall obtain approval from the Secretary of
  the Treasury and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget of
  the final terms of any prepayment made pursuant to this title.
  (h) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY- The authority granted by this title to sell
  loans shall terminate two years after the date of enactment of this Act:
  Provided, That the borrower shall have at least sixty days to respond to
  any prepayment offer made by the Secretary.
  (i) TITLE TO PROJECT FACILITIES- Notwithstanding any payments made by
  the District pursuant to this section or pursuant to any contract with
  the Secretary, title to the project facilities shall remain with the
  United States.
  (j) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `city' means the city of Frederick, Oklahoma; the city of
  Snyder, Oklahoma; or the city of Altus, Oklahoma;
  (2) the term `District' means the Mountain Park Master Conservancy District
  of Mountain Park, Oklahoma;
  (3) the term `project' means the Mountain Park Project, Oklahoma; and
  (4) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 3102. RESCHEDULE OF REPAYMENT OBLIGATION.
  (a) The Secretary shall conduct appropriate investigations regarding the
  ability of the District to meet its repayment obligation.
  (b) If the Secretary finds that the District does not have the ability to
  pay its repayment obligation, then the Secretary shall offer the District
  a revised schedule of payments for purposes of meeting the repayment
  obligation of the District: Provided, That such schedule of payments shall--
  (1) be consistent with the ability to pay of the District, and
  (2) have the same discounted present value as the repayment obligation of
  the District.
  (c) The Secretary shall conduct the investigations and make any offer of a
  revised schedule of payments pursuant to this section no later than twelve
  months after the date of enactment of this section.
TITLE XXXII--SOUTH DAKOTA PRESERVATION AND RESTORATION TRUST
Subpart A--Biological Diversity Trust
SEC. 3201. SOUTH DAKOTA BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY TRUST.
  (a) The Secretary, subject to the provisions of subsection (d) of this
  section, shall make an annual Federal contribution to a South Dakota
  Biological Diversity Trust established in accordance with subsection (b)
  of this section and operated in accordance with subsection (c) of this
  section. Contributions from the State of South Dakota may be paid to the
  Trust in such amounts and in such manner as may be agreed upon by the
  Governor and the Secretary. The total Federal contribution pursuant to
  this section, including subsection (d), shall not exceed $12,000,000.
  (b) A South Dakota Biological Diversity Trust shall be eligible to receive
  Federal contributions pursuant to subsection (a) of this section if it
  complies with each of the following requirements:
  (1) The Trust is established by non-Federal interests as a nonprofit
  corporation under the laws of South Dakota with its principal office in
  South Dakota.
  (2) The Trust is under the direction of a Board of Trustees which has the
  power to manage all affairs of the corporation, including administration,
  data collection, and implementation of the purposes of the Trust.
  (3) The Board is comprised of five persons appointed as follows, each for
  a term of five years:
  (A) 1 person appointed by the Governor of South Dakota;
  (B) 1 person appointed by each United States Senator from South Dakota;
  (C) 1 person appointed by the United States Representative from South
  Dakota; and
  (D) 1 person appointed by the South Dakota Academy of Science.
  (4) Vacancies on the Board are filled in the manner in which the original
  appointments were made. Any member of the Board is eligible for reappointment
  for successive terms. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring
  before the expiration of the term for which his or her predecessor was
  appointed is appointed only for the remainder of such term. A member may
  serve after the expiration of his or her term until his or her successor
  has taken office. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
  (5) The corporate purposes of the Trust are to select and provide funding
  for projects that protect or restore the best examples of South Dakota's
  biological diversity, its rare species, exemplary examples of plant and
  animal communities and large-scale natural ecosystems.
  (c) A South Dakota Biological Diversity Trust established by non-Federal
  interests as provided in subsection (b) shall be deemed to be operating
  in accordance with this subsection if, in the opinion of the Secretary,
  each of the following requirements are met:
  (1) the Trust is operated to select and provide funding for projects that
  protect or restore the best examples of South Dakota's biological diversity;
  its rare species, extraordinary examples of plant and animal communities and
  large-scale natural ecosystems in accordance with its corporate purpose; and
  (2) the Trust is managed in a fiscally responsible fashion by investing
  in private and public financial vehicles with the goal of producing income
  and preserving principal. The principal will be inviolate, but income will
  be used to accomplish the goals of the trust.
  (3) Proceeds from the Trust are used for the following purposes:
  (A) $10,000 per year or 5 percent of the total funds expended by the
  Trust (whichever is larger) will be provided to the South Dakota Natural
  Heritage Program (currently as part of the South Dakota Game, Fish, and
  Parks Departments), in order to do the following:
  (i) maintain and update the South Dakota Biodiversity Priority Site List;
  (ii) conduct inventory to discover and survey new sites for the Priority
  Site List; and
  (iii) manage data to maintain the Natural Heritage Databases needed to
  produce and document the Priority Site List.
  (B)  Up to 5 percent of the costs of each project are used for preserve
  design or site planning to ensure that sites are selected for funding which
  are well-designed to maintain the long-term viability of the significant
  species and communities found at the site.
  (C) Proceeds from the Trust may be used to complete land protection projects
  designed to protect biological diversity.
  (D) Projects may include acquisition of land,  water rights or other partial
  interests from willing sellers only, or arranging management agreements,
  registry and other techniques to protect significant sites.
  (E) Ownership of land acquired with Trust proceeds will be held by the
  public agency or private non-profit organization which proposed and
  completed the project, or another conservation owner with the approval
  of the Board. The land will be managed and used for the protection of
  biological diversity. If the property is used or managed otherwise, title
  will revert to the Trust for disposition.
  (F) Projects eligible for funding must be included on the South Dakota
  Biodiversity Priority List and located within the borders of South Dakota.
  (G) At the discretion of the Board, Trust proceeds may be used for
  direct project costs including direct expenses incurred during project
  completion. Land project funding may also include the creation of a
  stewardship endowment subject to the following terms:
  (i) Up to 25 percent of the total fair market value of the project may be
  placed in a separate endowment.
  (ii) The proceeds from the endowment will be used for the ongoing
  management costs of maintaining the biological integrity and viability of
  the significant biological features of the site.
  (iii) Endowment funds may not be used for activities which primarily
  promote recreational or economic use of the site.
  (iv) The endowment for each site will be held in a separate account from
  the body of the Trust and other endowments. The endowments will be managed
  by the Trust Board but the owner or manager of the site may draw upon the
  proceeds of the stewardship endowment to fund management activities with
  approval of the Board. Additional management funds may be secured from
  other public and private sources.
  (H) Should the biological significance of a site be destroyed or greatly
  reduced, the land may be disposed of but the proceeds and any stewardship
  endowment will revert to the Trust for use in other projects.
  (I) Proceeds from the Trust may be used for management of public or private
  lands, including but not restricted to lands purchased with Trust funds,
  except that only those management projects that result in the maintenance or
  restoration of statewide biological diversity are eligible for consideration.
  (d) For each fiscal year after 1992, 2 percent of the Federal contributions
  for the same fiscal year, determined pursuant to subsection (a) of this
  section, shall be used by the Secretary in order to do the following:
  (1) restore damaged natural ecosystems on public lands and waterways
  affected by the Reclamation program outside South Dakota;
  (2) acquire from willing sellers only other lands and properties or
  appropriate interests therein outside South Dakota with restorable damaged
  natural ecosystems and restore such ecosystems;
  (3) provide jobs and suitable economic development in a manner that carries
  out the other purposes of this subsection;
  (4) provide expanded recreational opportunities; and
  (5) support and encourage research, training and education in methods and
  technologies of ecosystem restoration.
  (e) In implementing subsection (d), the Secretary shall give priority
  to restoration and acquisition of lands and properties (or appropriate
  interests therein) where repair of compositional, structural and functional
  values will do the following:
  (1) reconstitute natural biological diversity that has been diminished;
  (2) assist the recovery of species populations, communities and ecosystems
  that are unable to survive onsite without intervention;
  (3) allow reintroduction and reoccupation by native flora and fauna;
  (4) control or eliminate exotic flora and fauna which are damaging natural
  ecosystems;
  (5) restore natural habitat for the recruitment and survival of fish,
  waterfowl and other wildlife;
  (6) provide additional conservation values to state and local government
  lands;
  (7) add to structural and compositional values of existing preserves or
  enhance the viability, defensibility and manageability of preserves; and
  (8) restore natural hydrological effects including sediment and erosion
  control, drainage, percolation and other water quality improvement capacity.
  (f) The Secretary shall annually report on activities under this section
  to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on
  Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular
  Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
  (g) There are authorized to be appropriated not to exceed $12,000,000 for
  the purposes of this title.
Subpart B--Wetland Habitat Restoration Program
SEC. 3202. DEFINITIONS.
  (1) The term `Foundation' means the South Dakota Game, Fish and Parks
  Foundation, a nonprofit corporation under the laws of the State of South
  Dakota with its principal office in South Dakota.
  (2) The term `wetland trust' means a trust established in accordance with
  section 3602(b) and operated in accordance with section 3602(c).
SEC. 3203. WETLAND TRUST.
  (a) FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS- Subject to appropriations therefor, the Secretary
  shall make a Federal contribution to a wetland trust that is--
  (1) established in accordance with subsection (b); and
  (2) operated in accordance with subsection (c), in the amount of $3,000,000
  in the first year in which a contribution is made and $1,000,000 in each
  of the following four years.
  (b) ESTABLISHMENT OF WETLAND TRUST- A wetland trust is established in
  accordance with this subsection if--
  (1) the wetland trust is administered by the Foundation;
  (2) the Foundation is under the direction of a Board of Directors that has
  power to manage all affairs of the Foundation, including administration,
  data collection, and implementation of the purposes of the wetland trust;
  (3) members of the Board of Directors of the Foundation serve without
  compensation;
  (4) the corporate purposes of the Foundation in administering the wetland
  trust are to preserve, enhance, restore, and manage wetland and associated
  wildlife habitat in the State of South Dakota;
  (5) an advisory committee is created to provide the Board of Directors
  of the Foundation with necessary technical expertise and the benefit of
  a multiagency perspective;
  (6) the advisory committee described in paragraph (5) is composed of--
  (A) 1 member of the staff of the Wildlife Division of the South Dakota
  Department of Game, Fish and Parks, appointed by the Secretary of that
  department;
  (B) 1 member of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, appointed by
  the Director of Region 6 of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
  (C) 1 representative from the Department of Agriculture, as determined by
  the Secretary of Agriculture; and
  (D) 3 residents of the State of South Dakota who are members of wildlife
  or environmental organizations, appointed by the Governor of the State of
  South Dakota; and
  (7) the wetland trust is empowered to accept non-Federal donations, gifts,
  and grants.
  (c) OPERATION OF WETLAND TRUST- The wetland trust shall be considered to
  be operated in accordance with this subsection if--
  (1) the wetland trust is operated to preserve, enhance, restore, and manage
  wetlands and associated wildlife habitat in the State of South Dakota;
  (2) under the corporate charter of the Foundation, the Board of Directors,
  acting on behalf of the Foundation, is empowered to--
  (A) acquire lands and interests in land and power to acquire water rights
  (but only with the consent of the owner);
  (B) acquire water rights; and
  (C) finance wetland preservation, enhancement, and restoration programs;
  (3)(A) all funds provided to the wetland trust under subsection (a) are
  to be invested in accordance with subsection (d);
  (B) no part of the principal amount (including capital gains thereon)
  of such funds are to be expended for any purpose;
  (C) the income received from the investment of such funds is to be used
  only for purposes and operations in accordance with this subsection or,
  to the extent not required for current operations, reinvested in accordance
  with subsection (d);
  (D) income earned by the wetland trust (including income from investments
  made with funds other than those provided to the wetland trust under
  subsection (a)) is used to--
  (i) enter into joint ventures, through the Division of Wildlife of the
  South Dakota Department of Game, Fish and Parks, with public and private
  entities or with private landowners to acquire easements or leases or to
  purchase wetland and adjoining upland; or
  (ii) pay for operation and maintenance of the wetland component;
  (E) when it is necessary to acquire land other than wetland and adjoining
  upland in connection with an acquisition of wetland and adjoining upland,
  wetland trust funds (including funds other than those provided to the
  wetland trust under subsection (a) and income from investments made with
  such funds) are to be used only for acquisition of the portions of land
  that contain wetland and adjoining upland that is beneficial to the wetland;
  (F) all land purchased in fee simple with wetland trust funds shall be
  dedicated to wetland preservation and use; and
  (G)(i) proceeds of the sale of land or any part thereof that was purchased
  with wetland trust funds are to be remitted to the wetland trust;
  (ii) management, operation, development, and maintenance of lands on which
  leases or easements are acquired;
  (iii) payment of annual lease fees, one-time easement costs, and taxes on
  land areas containing wetlands purchased in fee simple;
  (iv) payment of personnel directly related to the operation of the wetland
  trust, including administration; and
  (v) contractual and service costs related to the management of wetland
  trust funds, including audits.
  (4) the Board of Directors of the Foundation agrees to provide such reports
  as may be required by the Secretary and makes its records available for
  audit by Federal agencies; and
  (5) the advisory committee created under subsection (b)--
  (A) recommends criteria for wetland evaluation and selection: Provided, That
  income earned from the Trust shall not be used to mitigate or compensate
  for wetland damage caused by Federal water projects;
  (B) recommends wetland parcels for lease, easement, or purchase and states
  reasons for its recommendations; and
  (C) recommends management and development plans for parcels of land that
  are purchased.
  (d) INVESTMENT OF WETLAND TRUST FUNDS- (1) The Secretary, in consultation
  with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall establish requirements for the
  investment of all funds received by the wetland trust under subsection
  (a) or reinvested under subsection (c)(3).
  (2) The requirements established under paragraph (1) shall ensure that--
  (A) funds are invested in accordance with sound investment principles; and
  (B) the Board of Directors of the Foundation manages such investments and
  exercises its fiduciary responsibilities in an appropriate manner.
  (e) COORDINATION WITH THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE- (1) The Secretary shall
  make the Federal contribution under subsection (a) after consulting with
  the Secretary of Agriculture to provide for the coordination of activities
  under the wetland trust established under subsection (b) with the water
  bank program, the wetlands reserve program, and any similar Department of
  Agriculture programs providing for the protection of wetlands.
  (2) The Secretary of Agriculture shall take into consideration wetland
  protection activities under the wetland trust established under subsection
  (b) when considering whether to provide assistance under the water bank
  program, the wetlands reserve program, and any similar Department of
  Agriculture programs providing for the protection of wetlands.
SEC. 3204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $7,000,000 for
  the Federal contribution to the wetland trust established under section 3203.
TITLE XXXIII--ELEPHANT BUTTE IRRIGATION DISTRICT, NEW MEXICO
SEC. 3301. TRANSFER.
  The Secretary is  authorized to transfer to the Elephant Butte Irrigation
  District, New Mexico, and El Paso County Water Improvement District No. 1,
  Texas, without cost to the respective district, title to such easements,
  ditches, laterals, canals, drains, and other rights-of-way, which the United
  States has acquired on behalf of the project, that are used solely for the
  purpose of serving the respective district's lands and which the Secretary
  determines are necessary to enable the respective district to carry out
  operation and maintenance with respect to that portion of the Rio Grande
  project to be transferred. The transfer of the title to such easements,
  ditches, laterals,  canals, drains, and other rights-of-way  located in
  New Mexico, which the Secretary has, that are used for the purpose of
  jointly serving Elephant Butte Irrigation District  and El Paso  County
  Water Improvement District No. 1, may be transferred to Elephant Butte
  Irrigation District and El Paso County Water Improvement  District No. 1,
  jointly, upon agreement  by the Secretary and both districts. Any transfer
  under this section  shall be subject to the condition that the respective
  district assume responsibility for operating and maintaining their portion
  of the project.
SEC. 3302. LIMITATION.
  Title to and responsibility for operation and maintenance of Elephant Butte
  and Caballo dams, and Percha, Leasburg, and Mesilla diversion dams and the
  works necessary for their protection and operation shall be unaffected by
  this title.
SEC.  3303. EFFECT OF ACT ON OTHER LAWS.
  Nothing in this title shall affect any right, title, interest or  claim
  to land or water, if any, of the Ysleta del Sur  Pueblo, a  federally
  recognized Indian Tribe.
TITLE XXXIV--CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT IMPROVEMENT ACT
SEC. 3401. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Central Valley Project Improvement Act'.
SEC. 3402. PURPOSES.
  The purposes of this title shall be--
  (a) to protect,  restore, and enhance fish, wildlife, and associated
  habitats in the Central Valley and Trinity River basins of California;
  (b) to address impacts of the  Central Valley Project on fish, wildlife
  and associated habitats;
  (c) to improve the operational flexibility of the Central Valley Project;
  (d) to increase water-related benefits  provided by the Central Valley
  Project  to the State of California through expanded use of voluntary
  water transfers and improved water conservation;
  (e) to contribute  to the State of California's interim and long-term efforts
  to protect the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary;
  (f) to achieve a reasonable balance among competing demands for use of
  Central Valley Project water, including the requirements of fish and
  wildlife, agricultural, municipal and industrial  and power  contractors.
SEC. 3403. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title--
  (a) the term `anadromous fish' means those stocks of  salmon (including
  steelhead), striped bass, sturgeon, and American shad that ascend
  the Sacramento and San  Joaquin rivers and their  tributaries and the
  Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to reproduce after maturing in San Francisco
  Bay or the  Pacific Ocean;
  (b) the terms  `artificial propagation' and `artificial production' mean
  spawning, incubating, hatching, and rearing fish in a hatchery or other
  facility constructed for fish production;
  (c) the term `Central Valley Habitat Joint Venture' means the association of
  Federal and State agencies and private parties established for the purpose
  of developing and implementing the North American Waterfowl Management
  Plan as it pertains to the Central Valley  of California;
  (d) the terms `Central Valley Project' or `project' mean all Federal
  reclamation projects located within or  diverting water from or to the
  watershed of the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers and their tributaries
  as authorized by the Act of August 26, 1937  (50 Stat. 850) and all Acts
  amendatory or supplemental thereto, including but not limited to the
  Act of October 17, 1940 (54 Stat. 1198, 1199), Act of December 22, 1944
  (58 Stat. 887),  Act of October 14, 1949 (63 Stat. 852), Act of September
  26, 1950 (64 Stat. 1036), Act of August  27, 1954 (68  Stat. 879), Act
  of August 12, 1955 (69 Stat. 719), Act of June 3, 1960 (74 Stat. 156),
  Act of October 23, 1962 (76 Stat. 1173), Act of September 2, 1965 (79
  Stat. 615),  Act of August 19, 1967 (81 Stat. 167), Act of August 27, 1967
  (81 Stat. 173), Act of October 23, 1970 (84 Stat. 1097), Act of September
  28, 1976 (90 Stat. 1324) and Act of October 27, 1986 (100 Stat. 3050);
  (e) the term  `Central Valley Project service area' means that area of
  the Central Valley and San  Francisco Bay Area where water service has
  been expressly authorized pursuant to the  various feasibility studies
  and consequent congressional authorizations for the Central Valley Project;
  (f) the term `Central Valley Project water' means all water  that is
  developed, diverted, stored,  or delivered by the Secretary in accordance
  with the statutes authorizing the Central Valley Project and in accordance
  with the terms and conditions of water rights acquired pursuant to
  California law;
  (g) the term `full cost' has the meaning given such term in paragraph (3)
  of section 202 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982;
  (h) the term `natural production' means fish produced to adulthood without
  direct human intervention in the spawning, rearing, or migration processes;
  (i) the term `Reclamation laws' means the Act of June 17, 1902 (82 Stat. 388)
  and all Acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto;
  (j) the term `Refuge Water Supply Report' means the report issued by the
  Mid-Pacific Region of the Bureau of Reclamation of the U.S. Department
  of the Interior entitled Report on Refuge Water Supply Investigations,
  Central Valley Hydrologic Basin, California (March 1989);
  (k) the terms `repayment contract' and `water service contract' have the
  same meaning as provided in sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the Reclamation
  Project Act of 1939 (53 Stat. 1187, 1195), as amended;
  (l) the terms `Restoration Fund' and `Fund' mean the Central Valley Project
  Restoration Fund established by this title; and,
  (m) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 3404. LIMITATION ON CONTRACTING AND CONTRACT REFORM.
  (a) NEW CONTRACTS- Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, the
  Secretary shall not enter into any new short-term, temporary, or long-term
  contracts or agreements for water supply from the Central Valley Project
  for any purpose other than fish and wildlife before:
  (1) the provisions of subsections 3406(b)-(d) of this title are met;
  (2) the California State Water Resources Control Board concludes the review
  ordered by the California Court of Appeals in United States v. State Water
  Resources Control Board, 182 Cal. App. 3d 82 (1986) and determines the means
  of implementing its decision, including the obligations of the Central Valley
  Project, if any, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
  shall have approved such decision pursuant to existing authorities; and,
  (3) at least one hundred and twenty days shall have passed after the
  Secretary provides a report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
  of the Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the
  Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives
  explaining the obligations, if any, of the Central Valley Project system,
  including its component facilities and contracts, with regard to achieving
  its responsibilities for the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta
  Estuary as finally established and approved by relevant State and Federal
  authorities, and the impact of such obligations on Central Valley Project
  operations, supplies, and commitments.
  (b) EXCEPTIONS TO LIMIT ON NEW CONTRACTS- The prohibition on execution
  of new contracts under subsection (a) of this section shall not apply to
  contracts executed pursuant to section 305 of Public Law 102-250 or section
  206 of Public Law 101-514 or to one-year contracts for delivery of surplus
  flood flows or contracts not to exceed two years in length for delivery
  of class II water in the Friant Unit. Notwithstanding the prohibition in
  the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act of 1990, the Secretary
  is authorized, pursuant to section 203 of the Flood Control Act of 1962,
  to enter into a long-term contract in accordance with the Reclamation laws
  with the Tuolumne Regional Water District, California, for the delivery
  of water from the New Melones project to the county's water distribution
  system and a contract with the Secretary of Veteran Affairs to provide
  for the delivery in perpetuity of water from the project in quantities
  sufficient, but not to exceed 850 acre-feet per year, to meet the needs
  of the San Joaquin Valley National Cemetery, California.
  (c) RENEWAL OF EXISTING LONG-TERM CONTRACTS- Notwithstanding the provisions
  of the Act of July 2, 1956 (70 Stat. 483), the Secretary shall, upon
  request,  renew any existing long-term repayment or water service contract
  for the delivery of water from the Central Valley Project for a period of
  twenty-five years and may renew such contracts for successive periods of
  up to 25 years each.
  (1) No such renewals shall be authorized until appropriate environmental
  review, including the preparation of the environmental impact statement
  required in section 3409 of this title, has been completed. Contracts
  which expire prior to the completion of the environmental impact statement
  required by section 3409 may be renewed for an interim period not to exceed
  three years in length, and for successive interim periods of not more than
  two years in length, until the environmental impact statement required by
  section 3409 has been finally completed, at which time such interim renewal
  contracts shall be eligible  for long-term renewal as provided above. Such
  interim renewal contracts shall be modified to comply with existing law,
  including provisions of this title. With respect to all contracts renewed
  by the Secretary since January 1, 1988, the Secretary shall incorporate
  in said contracts a provision requiring payment of the charge mandated
  in subsection 3406(c) and subsection 3407(b) of this title and all other
  modifications needed to comply with existing law, including provisions of
  this title. This title shall be deemed `applicable law' as that term is used
  in Article 14(c) of contracts renewed by the Secretary since January 1, 1988.
  (2) Upon renewal of any long-term repayment or water service contract
  providing for the delivery of water from the Central Valley Project, the
  Secretary shall incorporate all requirements imposed by existing law,
  including provisions of this title, within such renewed contracts. The
  Secretary shall also administer all existing, new, and renewed contracts
  in conformance with the requirements and goals of this title.
  (3) In order to encourage early renewal of project water contracts and
  facilitate timely implementation of this title, the Secretary shall impose
  on existing contractors an additional mitigation and restoration payment
  of one and one-half times the annual mitigation and restoration payment
  calculated under subsection 3407(d) of this title for every year starting
  October 1, 1997 or January 1 of the year following the year in which the
  environmental impact statement required under section 3409 is completed,
  whichever is sooner, and ending on the effective date of the renewed
  contract payable prior to the renewal of such contract, to be covered to the
  Restoration Fund: Provided, however, That this paragraph shall not apply to
  contracts renewed after January 1, 1988, and prior to the date of enactment
  of this title or, in the event the environmental impact statement required
  by section 3409 is not completed by October 1, 1997, to any holder of a
  contract in existence on the date of enactment of this title who enters
  into a binding agreement with the Secretary prior to October 1, 1997,
  to renew its contract immediately upon completion of that environmental
  impact statement, if such contract has not expired prior to such date.
SEC. 3405. WATER TRANSFERS, IMPROVED WATER MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION.
  (a) WATER TRANSFERS- In order to assist California urban areas, agricultural
  water users, and others in meeting their future water needs, subject to
  the conditions and requirements of this subsection, all individuals or
  districts who receive Central Valley Project water under water service
  or repayment contracts, water rights settlement contracts or exchange
  contracts entered into prior to or after the date of enactment of this
  title are authorized to transfer all or a portion of the water subject to
  such contract to any other California water user or water agency, State
  or Federal agency, Indian tribe, or private nonprofit organization for
  project purposes or any purpose recognized as beneficial under applicable
  State law. Except as provided herein, the terms of such transfers shall
  be set by mutual agreement between the transferee and the transferor.
  (1) CONDITIONS FOR TRANSFERS- All transfers to Central Valley Project water
  authorized by this subsection shall be subject to review and approval by
  the Secretary under the conditions specified in this subsection. Transfers
  involving more than 20 percent of the Central Valley Project water subject
  to long-term contract within any contracting district or agency shall
  also be subject to review and approval by such district or agency under
  the conditions specified in this subsection:
  (A) No transfer to combination of transfers authorized by this subsection
  shall exceed, in any year, the average annual quantity of water under
  contract actually delivered to the contracting district or agency during
  the last three years of normal water delivery prior to the date of enactment
  of this title.
  (B) All water under the contract which is transferred under authority of
  this subsection to any district or agency which is not a Central Valley
  Project contractor at the time of enactment of this title shall, if used
  for irrigation purposes, be repaid at the greater of the full-cost or cost
  of service rates, or, if the water is used for municipal and industrial
  purposes, at the greater of the cost of service or municipal and industrial
  rates.
  (C) No transfers authorized by this subsection shall be approved unless
  the transfer is between a willing buyer and a willing seller under such
  terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed upon.
  (D) No transfer authorized by this subsection shall be approved unless
  the transfer is consistent with State law, including but not limited to
  provisions of the California Environmental Quality Act.
  (E) All transfers authorized by this subsection shall be deemed a beneficial
  use of water by the transferor for the purposes of section 8 of the Act
  of June 17, 1902, 32 Stat. 390, 43 U.S.C. 372.
  (F) All transfers entered into pursuant to this subsection for uses outside
  the Central Valley Project service area shall be subject to a right of
  first refusal on the same terms and conditions by entities within the
  Central Valley Project service area. The right of first refusal must be
  exercised within ninety days from the date that notice is provided of the
  proposed transfer. Should an entity exercise the right of first refusal,
  it must compensate the transferee who had negotiated the agreement upon
  which the right of first refusal is being exercised for that entity's
  total costs associated with the development and negotiation of the transfer.
  (G) No transfer authorized by this subsection shall be considered by the
  Secretary as conferring supplemental or additional benefits on Central
  Valley Project water contractors as provided in section 203 of Public Law
  97-293 (43 U.S.C. 390(cc)).
  (H) The Secretary shall not approve a transfer authorized by this subsection
  unless the Secretary has determined, consistent with paragraph 3405(a)(2)
  of this title, that the transfer will not violate the provisions of this
  title or other Federal law and will have no significant adverse effect on
  the Secretary's ability to deliver water pursuant to the Secretary's Central
  Valley Project contractual obligations or fish and wildlife obligations
  under this title because of limitations in conveyance or pumping capacity.
  (I) The water subject to any transfer undertaken pursuant to this
  subsection shall be limited to water that would have been consumptively
  used or irretrievably lost to beneficial use during the year or years of
  the transfer.
  (J) The Secretary shall not approve a transfer authorized by this subsection
  unless the Secretary determines, consistent with paragraph 3405(a)(2) of
  this title, that such transfer will have no significant long-term adverse
  impact on groundwater conditions in the transferor's service area.
  (K) The Secretary shall not approve a transfer unless the Secretary
  determines, consistent with paragraph 3405(a)(2) of this title, that such
  transfer will have no unreasonable impact on the water supply, operations,
  or financial conditions of the transferor's contracting district or agency
  or its water users.
  (L) The Secretary shall not approve a transfer if the Secretary determines,
  consistent with paragraph 3405(a)(2) of this title, that such transfer
  would result in a significant reduction in the quantity or decrease in the
  quality of water supplies currently used for fish and wildlife purposes,
  unless the Secretary determines pursuant to findings setting forth the
  basis for such determination that such adverse effects would be more than
  offset by the benefits of the proposed transfer. In the event of such
  a determination, the Secretary shall develop and implement alternative
  measures and mitigation activities as integral and concurrent elements
  of any such transfer to provide fish and wildlife benefits substantially
  equivalent to those lost as a consequence of such transfer.
  (M) Transfers between Central Valley Project contractors within countries,
  watersheds, or other areas of origin, as those terms are utilized under
  California law, shall be deemed to meet the conditions set forth in
  subparagraphs (A) and (I) of this paragraph.
  (2) REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF TRANSFERS- All transfers subject to review and
  approval under this subsection shall be reviewed and approved in a manner
  consistent with the following:
  (A) Decisions on water transfers subject to review by a contracting
  district or agency or by the Secretary shall be rendered within ninety
  days of receiving a written transfer proposal from the transferee or
  transferor. Such written proposal should provide all information reasonably
  necessary to determine whether the transfer complies with the terms and
  conditions of this subsection.
  (B) All transfers subject to review by a contracting district or agency
  shall be reviewed in a public process similar to that provided for in
  section 226 of Public Law 97-293.
  (C) The contracting district or agency or the Secretary shall approve all
  transfers subject to review and approval by such entity if such transfers are
  consistent with the terms and conditions of this subsection. To disapprove
  a transfer, the contracting district or agency or the Secretary shall inform
  the transferee and transferor, in writing, why the transfer does not comply
  with the terms and conditions of this subsection and what alternatives,
  if any, could be included so that the transfer would reasonably comply
  with the requirements of this subsection.
  (D) If the contracting district or agency or the Secretary fails to
  approve or disapprove a proposed transfer within ninety days of receiving
  a complete written proposal from the transferee or transferor, then the
  transfer shall be deemed approved.
  (3) Transfers executed after September 30, 1999 shall only be governed
  by the provisions of subparagraphs 3405(a)(1)(A)-(C), (E), (G), (H), (I),
  (L), and (M) of this title, and by State law.
  (b) METERING OF WATER USE REQUIRED- All Central Valley Project water service
  or repayment contracts for agricultural, municipal, or industrial purposes
  that are entered into, renewed, or amended under any provision of Federal
  Reclamation law after the date of enactment of this title, shall provide
  that the contracting district or agency shall ensure that all surface water
  delivery systems within its boundaries are equipped with water measuring
  devices or water measuring methods of comparable effectiveness acceptable
  to the Secretary within five years of the date of contract execution,
  amendment, or renewal, and that any new surface water delivery systems
  installed within its boundaries on or after the date of contract renewal are
  so equipped. The contracting district or agency shall inform the Secretary
  and the State of California annually as to the monthly volume of surface
  water delivered within its boundaries.
  (c) STATE AND FEDERAL WATER QUALITY STANDARDS- All Central Valley Project
  water service or repayment contracts for agricultural, municipal, or
  industrial purposes that are entered into, renewed, or amended under
  any provision of Federal Reclamation law after the date of enactment of
  this title, shall provide that the contracting district or agency shall
  be responsible for compliance with all applicable State and Federal water
  quality standards applicable to surface and subsurface agricultural drainage
  discharges generated within its boundaries. This subsection shall not affect
  or alter any legal obligation of the Secretary to provide drainage services.
  (d) WATER PRICING REFORM- All Central Valley Project water service or
  repayment contracts for a term longer than three years for agricultural,
  municipal, or industrial purposes that are entered into, renewed, or
  amended under any provision of Federal Reclamation law after the date
  of enactment of this title shall provide that all project water subject
  to contract shall be made available to districts, agencies, and other
  contracting entities pursuant to a system of tiered water pricing. Such
  a system shall specify rates for each district, agency or entity based on
  an inverted block rate structure with the following provisions:
  (1) the first rate tier shall apply to a quantity of water up to 80
  percent of the contract total and shall not be less than the applicable
  contract rate;
  (2) the second rate tier shall apply to that quantity of water over 80
  percent and under 90 percent of the contract total and shall be at a
  level halfway between the rates established under paragraphs (1) and (3)
  of this subsection;
  (3) the third rate tier shall apply to that quantity of water over 90 percent
  of the contract total and shall not be less than the full cost rate; and
  (4) the Secretary shall charge contractors only for water actually delivered.
The Secretary shall waive application of this subsection as it relates to
any project water delivered to produce a crop which the Secretary determines
will provide significant and quantifiable habitat values for waterfowl in
fields where the water is used and the crops are produced: Provided, That
such waiver shall apply only if such habitat values can be assured consistent
with the purposes of this title through binding agreements executed with or
approved by the Secretary.
  (e) WATER CONSERVATION STANDARDS- The Secretary shall establish and
  administer an office of Central Valley Project water conservation best
  management practices that shall, in consultation with the Secretary of
  Agriculture, the California Department of Water Resources, California
  academic institutions, and Central Valley Project water users, develop
  criteria for evaluating the adequacy of all water conservation plans
  developed by project contractors, including those plans required by section
  210 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982.
  (1) Criteria developed pursuant to this subsection shall be established
  within six months following enactment of this title and shall be reviewed
  periodically thereafter, but no less than every three years, with the purpose
  of promoting the highest level of water use efficiency reasonably achievable
  by project contractors using best available cost-effective technology and
  best management practices. The criteria shall include, but not be limited
  to agricultural water suppliers' efficient water management practices
  developed pursuant to California State law or reasonable alternatives.
  (2) The Secretary, through the office established under this subsection,
  shall review and evaluate within 18 months following enactment of this
  title all existing conservation plans submitted by project contractors
  to determine whether they meet the conservation and efficiency criteria
  established pursuant to this subsection.
  (3) In developing the water conservation best management practice criteria
  required by this subsection, the Secretary shall take into account and
  grant substantial deference to the recommendations for action specific
  to water conservation and drainage source reduction proposed in the Final
  Report of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program, entitled A Management
  Plan for Agricultural Subsurface Drainage and Related Problems on the
  Westside San Joaquin Valley (September 1990).
  (f) INCREASED REVENUES- All revenues received by the Secretary as a result
  of the increased repayment rates applicable to water transferred from
  irrigation use to municipal and industrial use under subsection 3405(a)
  of this section, and all increased revenues received by the Secretary as a
  result of the increased water prices established under subsection 3405(d)
  of this section, shall be covered to the Restoration Fund.
SEC. 3406. FISH, WILDLIFE AND HABITAT RESTORATION.
  (a) AMENDMENTS TO CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT AUTHORIZATIONS- Act of August 26,
  1937- Section 2 of the Act of August 26, 1937 (chapter 832; 50 Stat. 850),
  as amended, is amended--
  (1) in the second proviso of subsection (a), by inserting `and
  mitigation, protection, and restoration of fish and wildlife' after
  `Indian reservations,';
  (2) in the last proviso of subsection (a), by striking `domestic uses;'
  and inserting `domestic uses and fish and wildlife mitigation, protection
  and restoration purposes;' and by striking `power' and inserting `power
  and fish and wildlife enhancement';
  (3) by adding at the end the following: `The mitigation for fish and wildlife
  losses incurred as a result of construction, operation, or maintenance of
  the Central Valley Project shall be based on the replacement of ecologically
  equivalent habitat and shall take place in accordance with the provisions
  of this title and concurrent with any future actions which adversely affect
  fish and wildlife populations or their habitat but shall have no priority
  over them.'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following: `(e) Nothing in this title shall
  affect the State's authority to condition water rights permits for the
  Central Valley Project.'
  (b) FISH AND WILDLIFE RESTORATION ACTIVITIES- The Secretary, immediately
  upon the enactment of this title, shall operate the Central Valley Project to
  meet all obligations under State and Federal law, including but not limited
  to the Federal Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq., and all
  decisions of the California State Water Resources Control Board establishing
  conditions on applicable licenses and permits for the project. The Secretary,
  in consultation with other State and Federal agencies, Indian tribes,
  and affected interests, is further authorized and directed to:
  (1) develop within three years of enactment and implement a program which
  makes all reasonable efforts to ensure that, by the year 2002, natural
  production of anadromous fish in Central Valley rivers and streams will
  be sustainable, on a long-term basis, at levels not less than twice the
  average levels attained during the period of 1967-1991; Provided, That this
  goal shall not apply to the San Joaquin River between Friant Dam and the
  Mendota Pool, for which a separate program is authorized under subsection
  3406(c) of this title; Provided further, That the programs and activities
  authorized by this section shall, when fully implemented, be deemed to
  meet the mitigation, protection, restoration, and enhancement purposes
  established by subsection 3406(a) of this title; And provided further, That
  in the course of developing and implementing this program the Secretary
  shall make all reasonable efforts consistent with the requirements of this
  section to address other identified adverse environmental impacts of the
  Central Valley Project not specifically enumerated in this section.
  (A) This program shall give first priority to measures which protect
  and restore natural channel and riparian habitat values through habitat
  restoration actions, modifications to Central Valley Project operations,
  and implementation of the supporting measures mandated by this subsection;
  shall be reviewed and updated every five years; and shall describe how the
  Secretary intends to operate the Central Valley Project to meet the fish,
  wildlife, and habitat restoration goals and requirements set forth in this
  title and other project purposes.
  (B) As needed to achieve the goals of this program, the Secretary is
  authorized and directed to modify Central Valley Project operations to
  provide flows of suitable quality, quantity, and timing to protect all life
  stages of anadromous fish, except that such flows shall be provided from
  the quantity of water dedicated to fish, wildlife, and habitat restoration
  purposes under paragraph (2) of this subsection; from the water supplies
  acquired pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection; and from other
  sources which do not conflict with fulfillment of the Secretary's remaining
  contractual obligations to provide Central Valley Project water for other
  authorized purposes. Instream flow needs for all Central Valley Project
  controlled streams and rivers shall be determined by the Secretary based
  on recommendations of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service after
  consultation with the California Department of Fish and Game.
  (C) The Secretary shall cooperate with the State of California to ensure
  that, to the greatest degree practicable, the specific quantities of yield
  dedicated to and managed for fish and wildlife purposes under this title are
  credited against any additional obligations of the Central Valley Project
  which may be imposed by the State of California following enactment of
  this title, including but not limited to increased flow and reduced export
  obligations which may be imposed by the California State Water Resources
  Control Board in implementing San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin
  Delta Estuary standards pursuant to the review ordered by the California
  Court of Appeals in United States v. State Water Resources Control Board,
  182 Cal.App.3d 82 (1986), and that, to the greatest degree practicable,
  the programs and plans required by this title are developed and implemented
  in a way that avoids inconsistent or duplicative obligations from being
  imposed upon Central Valley Project water and power contractors.
  (D) Costs associated with this paragraph shall be reimbursable pursuant
  to existing statutory and regulatory procedures.
  (2) upon enactment of this title dedicate and manage annually eight hundred
  thousand acre-feet of Central Valley Project yield for the primary purpose
  of implementing the fish, wildlife, and habitat restoration purposes and
  measures authorized by this title; to assist the State of California in its
  efforts to protect the waters of the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin
  Delta Estuary; and to help to meet such obligations as may be legally imposed
  upon the Central Valley Project under State or Federal law following the
  date of enactment of this title, including but not limited to additional
  obligations under the Federal Endangered Species Act. For the purpose of
  this section, the term `Central Valley Project yield' means the delivery
  capability of the Central Valley Project during the 1928-1934 drought period
  after fishery, water quality, and other flow and operational requirements
  imposed by terms and conditions existing in licenses, permits, and other
  agreements pertaining to the Central Valley Project under applicable State
  or Federal law existing at the time of enactment of this title have been met.
  (A) Such quantity of water shall be in addition to the quantities needed
  to implement paragraph 3406(d)(1) of this title and in addition to all
  water allocated pursuant to paragraph (23) of this subsection for release
  to the Trinity River for the purposes of fishery restoration, propagation,
  and maintenance; and shall be supplemented by all water that comes under
  the Secretary's control pursuant to subsections 3406(b)(3), 3408(h)-(i),
  and through other measures consistent with subparagraph 3406(b)(1)(B)
  of this title.
  (B) Such quantity of water shall be managed pursuant to conditions specified
  by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service after consultation with
  the Bureau of Reclamation and the California Department of Water Resources
  and in cooperation with the California Department of Fish and Game.
  (C) The Secretary may temporarily reduce deliveries of the quantity of water
  dedicated under this paragraph up to 25 percent of such total whenever
  reductions due to hydrologic circumstances are imposed upon agricultural
  deliveries of Central Valley Project water; Provided, That such reductions
  shall not exceed in percentage terms the reductions imposed on agricultural
  service contractors; Provided further, That nothing in this subsection or
  subsection 3406(e) shall require the Secretary to operate the project in
  a way that jeopardizes human health or safety.
  (D) If the quantity of water dedicated under this paragraph, or any portion
  thereof, is not needed for the purposes of this section, based on a finding
  by the Secretary, the Secretary is authorized to make such water available
  for other project purposes.
  (3) develop and implement a program in coordination and in conformance with
  the plan required under paragraph (1) of this subsection for the acquisition
  of a water supply to supplement the quantity of water dedicated to fish
  and wildlife purposes under paragraph (2) of this subsection and to fulfill
  the Secretary's obligations under paragraph 3406(d)(2) of this title. The
  program should identify how the Secretary intends to utilize, in particular
  the following options: improvements in or modifications of the operations
  of the project; water banking; conservation; transfers; conjunctive use;
  and temporary and permanent land fallowing, including purchase, lease,
  and option of water, water rights, and associated agricultural land.
  (4) develop and implement a program to mitigate for fishery impacts
  associated with operations of the Tracy Pumping Plant. Such program
  shall include, but is not limited to improvement or replacement of the
  fish screens and fish recovery facilities and practices associated with
  the Tracy Pumping Plant. Costs associated with this paragraph shall be
  reimbursed in accordance with the following formula: 37.5 percent shall
  be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5 percent shall be considered
  a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25 percent shall be paid by
  the State of California. The reimbursable share of funding for this and
  other facility repairs, improvements, and construction shall be allocated
  among project water and power users in accordance with existing project
  cost allocation procedures.
  (5) develop and implement a program to mitigate for fishery impacts resulting
  from operations of the Contra Costa Canal Pumping Plant No. 1. Such program
  shall provide for construction and operation of fish screening and recovery
  facilities, and for modified practices and operations. Costs associated
  with this paragraph shall be reimbursed in accordance with the following
  formula: 37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5
  percent shall be considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25
  percent shall be paid by the State of California.
  (6) install and operate a structural temperature control device at Shasta
  Dam and develop and implement modifications in CVP operations as needed
  to assist in the Secretary's efforts to control water temperatures in the
  upper Sacramento River in order to protect anadromous fish in the upper
  Sacramento River. Costs associated with planning and construction of the
  structural temperature control device shall be reimbursed in accordance
  with the following formula: 37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main
  project features, 37.5 percent shall be considered a nonreimbursable
  Federal expenditure, and 25 percent shall be paid by the State of California.
  (7) meet flow standards and objectives and diversion limits set forth
  in all laws and judicial decisions that apply to Central Valley Project
  facilities, including, but not limited to, provisions of this title and all
  obligations of the United States under the `Agreement Between the United
  States and the Department of Water Resources of the State of California
  for Coordinated Operation of the Central Valley Project and the State
  Water Project' dated May 20, 1985, as well as Public Law 99-546.
  (8) make use of short pulses of increased water flows to increase
  the survival of migrating anadromous fish moving into and through the
  Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta and Central Valley rivers and streams.
  (9) develop and implement a program to eliminate, to the extent possible,
  losses of anadromous fish due to flow fluctuations caused by the operation
  of any Central Valley Project storage or re-regulating facility. The
  program shall be patterned where appropriate after the agreement between
  the California Department of Water Resources and the California Department
  of Fish and Game with respect to the operation of the California State
  Water Project Oroville Dam complex.
  (10) develop and implement measures to minimize fish passage problems
  for adult and juvenile anadromous fish at the Red Bluff Diversion Dam in
  a manner that provides for the use of associated Central Valley Project
  conveyance facilities for delivery of water to the Sacramento Valley
  National Wildlife Refuge complex in accordance with the requirements
  of subsection (d) of this section. Costs associated with implementation
  of this paragraph shall be reimbursed in accordance with the following
  formula: 37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5
  percent shall be considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25
  percent shall be paid by the State of California.
  (11) rehabilitate and expand the Coleman National Fish Hatchery by
  implementing the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's Coleman National
  Fish Hatchery Development Plan, and modify the Keswick Dam Fish Trap to
  provide for its efficient operation at all project flow release levels and
  modify the basin below the Keswick Dam spillway to prevent the trapping
  of fish. Costs associated with implementation of this paragraph shall be
  reimbursed in accordance with the following formula: 50 percent shall be
  reimbursed as main project features and 50 percent shall be considered a
  nonreimbursable Federal expenditure.
  (12) develop and implement a comprehensive program to provide flows to
  allow sufficient spawning, incubation, rearing, and outmigration for
  salmon and steelhead from Whiskeytown Dam as determined by instream flow
  studies conducted by the California Department of Fish and Game after Clear
  Creek has been restored and a new fish ladder has been constructed at the
  McCormick-Saeltzer Dam. Costs associated with channel restoration, passage
  improvements, and fish ladder construction required by this paragraph
  shall be allocated 50 percent to the United States as a nonreimbursable
  expenditure and 50 percent to the State of California. Costs associated
  with providing the flows required by this paragraph shall be allocated
  among project purposes.
  (13) develop and implement a continuing program for the purpose of restoring
  and replenishing, as needed, spawning gravel lost due to the construction
  and operation of Central Valley Project dams, bank protection projects,
  and other actions that have reduced the availability of spawning gravel and
  rearing habitat in the Upper Sacramento River from Keswick Dam to Red Bluff
  Diversion Dam, and in the American and Stanislaus Rivers downstream from the
  Nimbus and Goodwin Dams, respectively. The program shall include preventive
  measures, such as re-establishment of meander belts and limitations on
  future bank protection activities, in order to avoid further losses of
  instream and riparian habitat. Costs associated with implementation of this
  paragraph shall be reimbursed in accordance with the following formula:
  37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5 percent
  shall be considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25 percent
  shall be paid by the State of California.
  (14) develop and implement a program which provides for modified operations
  and new or improved control structures at the Delta Cross Channel and
  Georgiana Slough during times when significant numbers of striped bass eggs,
  larvae, and juveniles approach the Sacramento River intake to the Delta
  Cross Channel or Georgiana Slough. Costs associated with implementation
  of this paragraph shall be reimbursed in accordance with the following
  formula: 37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5
  percent shall be considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25
  percent shall be paid by the State of California.
  (15) construct, in cooperation with the State of California and in
  consultation with local interests, a barrier at the head of Old River in the
  Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to be operated on a seasonal basis to increase
  the survival of young outmigrating salmon that are diverted from the San
  Joaquin River to Central Valley Project and State Water Project pumping
  plants and in a manner that does not significantly impair the ability of
  local entities to divert water. The costs associated with implementation
  of this paragraph shall be reimbursed in accordance with the following
  formula: 37.5 percent shall be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5
  percent shall be considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25
  percent shall be paid by the State of California.
  (16) establish, in cooperation with independent entities and the State
  of California, a comprehensive assessment program to monitor fish and
  wildlife resources in the Central Valley to assess the biological results
  and effectiveness of actions implemented pursuant to this subsection. 37.5
  percent of the costs associated with implementation of this paragraph shall
  be reimbursed as main project features, 37.5 percent shall be considered
  a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25 percent shall be paid by
  the State of California.
  (17) develop and implement a program to resolve fishery passage problems
  at the Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation District Diversion Dam as well as
  upstream stranding problems related to Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation
  District Diversion Dam operations. Costs associated with implementation
  of this paragraph shall be allocated 50 percent to the United States as
  a nonreimbursable expenditure and 50 percent to the State of California.
  (18) if requested by the State of California, assist in developing and
  implementing management measures to restore the striped bass fishery of
  the Bay-Delta estuary. Such measures shall be coordinated with efforts to
  protect and restore native fisheries. Costs associated with implementation
  of this paragraph shall be allocated 50 percent to the United States and
  50 percent to the State of California. The United States' share of costs
  associated with implementation of this paragraph shall be nonreimbursable.
  (19) reevaluate existing operational criteria in order to maintain minimum
  carryover storage at Sacramento and Trinity River reservoirs to protect
  and restore the anadromous fish of the Sacramento and Trinity Rivers
  in accordance with the mandates and requirements of this subsection and
  subject to the Secretary's responsibility to fulfill all project purposes,
  including agricultural water delivery.
  (20) participate with the State of California and other Federal agencies in
  the implementation of the on-going program to mitigate fully for the fishery
  impacts associated with operations of the Glenn-Colusa Irrigation District's
  Hamilton City Pumping Plant. Such participation shall include replacement
  of the defective fish screens and fish recovery facilities associated with
  the Hamilton City Pumping Plant. This authorization shall not be deemed to
  supersede or alter existing authorizations for the participation of other
  Federal agencies in the mitigation program. Seventy-five percent shall be
  considered a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure, and 25 percent shall be
  paid by the State of California.
  (21) assist the State of California in efforts to develop and implement
  measures to avoid losses of juvenile anadromous fish resulting from
  unscreened or inadequately screened diversions on the Sacramento and San
  Joaquin rivers, their tributaries, the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, and
  the Suisun Marsh. Such measures shall include but shall not be limited
  to construction of screens on unscreened diversions, rehabilitation of
  existing screens, replacement of existing non-functioning screens, and
  relocation of diversions to less fishery-sensitive areas. The Secretary's
  share of costs associated with activities authorized under this paragraph
  shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of any such activity.
  (22) provide such incentives as the Secretary determines to be appropriate
  or necessary, consistent with the goals and objectives of this title,
  to encourage farmers to participate in a program, which the Secretary
  shall develop, under which such farmers will keep fields flooded during
  appropriate time periods for the purposes of waterfowl habitat creation
  and maintenance and for Central Valley Project yield enhancement; Provided,
  That such incentives shall not exceed $2,000,000 annually, either directly or
  through credits against other contractual payment obligations, including the
  pricing waivers authorized under subsection 3405(d) of this tile; Provided
  further, That the holder of the water contract shall pass such incentives
  through to farmers participating in the program, less reasonable contractor
  costs, if any; And provided further, That such water may be transferred
  subject to section 3405(a) of this title only if the farmer waives all
  rights to such incentives. This provision shall terminate by the year 2002.
  (23) in order to meet Federal trust responsibilities to protect the fishery
  resources of the Hoopa Valley Tribe, and to meet the fishery restoration
  goals of the Act of October 24, 1984, Public Law 98-541, provide through
  the Trinity River Division, for water years 1992 through 1996, an instream
  release of water to the Trinity River of not less than three hundred and
  forty thousand acre-feet per year for the purposes of fishery restoration,
  propagation, and maintenance and,
  (A) by September 30, 1996, the Secretary, after consultation with the
  Hoopa Valley Tribe, shall complete the Trinity River Flow Evaluation
  Study currently being conducted by the United States Fish and Wildlife
  Service under the mandate of the Secretarial Decision of January 14, 1981,
  in a manner which insures the development of recommendations, based on the
  best available scientific data, regarding permanent instream fishery flow
  requirements and Trinity River Division operating criteria and procedures
  for the restoration and maintenance of the Trinity River fishery; and
  (B) not later than December 31, 1996, the Secretary shall forward the
  recommendations of the Trinity River Flow Evaluation Study, referred to in
  subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, to the Committee on Energy and Natural
  Resources and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the
  Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Merchant
  Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives. If the Secretary
  and the Hoopa Valley Tribe concur in these recommendations, any increase
  to the minimum Trinity River instream fishery releases established under
  this paragraph and the operating criteria and procedures referred to in
  subparagraph (A) shall be implemented accordingly. If the Hoopa Valley
  Tribe and the Secretary do not concur, the minimum Trinity River instream
  fishery releases established under this paragraph shall remain in effect
  unless increased by an Act of Congress, appropriate judicial decree,
  or agreement between the Secretary and the Hoopa Valley Tribe. Costs
  associated with implementation of this paragraph shall be reimbursable as
  operation and maintenance expenditures pursuant to existing law.
If the Secretary and the State of California determine that long-term
natural fishery productivity in all Central Valley Project controlled
rivers and streams resulting from implementation of this section exceeds
that which existed in the absence of Central Valley Project facilities, the
costs of implementing those measures which are determined to provide such
enhancement shall become credits to offset reimbursable costs associated
with implementation of this subsection.
  (c) SAN JOAQUIN AND STANISLAUS RIVERS- The Secretary shall, by not later
  than September 30, 1996:
  (1) develop a comprehensive plan, which is reasonable, prudent, and feasible,
  to address fish, wildlife, and habitat concerns on the San Joaquin River,
  including but not limited to the streamflow, channel, riparian habitat,
  and water quality improvements that would be needed to reestablish where
  necessary and to sustain naturally reproducing anadromous fisheries from
  Friant Dam to its confluence with the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San
  Joaquin Delta Estuary. Such plan shall be developed in cooperation with
  the California Department of Fish and Game and in coordination with the
  San Joaquin River Management Program under development by the State of
  California; shall comply with and contain any documents required by the
  National Environmental Policy Act and contain findings setting forth the
  basis for the Secretary's decision to adopt and implement the plan as
  well as recommendations concerning the need for subsequent Congressional
  action, if any; and shall incorporate, among other relevant factors, the
  potential contributions of tributary streams as well as the alternatives
  to be investigated under paragraph (2) of this subsection. During the time
  that the Secretary is developing the plan provided for in this subsection,
  and until such time as Congress has authorized the Secretary to implement
  such plan, with or without modifications, the Secretary shall not, as
  a measure to implement this title, make releases for the restoration of
  flows between Gravelly Ford and the Mendota Pool and shall not thereafter
  make such releases as a measure to implement this title without a specific
  Act of Congress authorizing such releases. In lieu of such requirement,
  and until such time as flows of sufficient quantity, quality and timing
  are provided at and below Gravelly Ford to meet the anadromous fishery
  needs identified pursuant to such plan, if any, entities who receive water
  from the Friant Division of the Central Valley Project shall be assessed,
  in addition to all other applicable charges, a $4 per acre-foot surcharge
  for all Project water delivered on or before September 30, 1997; a $5 per
  acre-foot surcharge for all Project water delivered after September 30, 1997
  but on or before September 30, 1999; and a $7 per acre-foot surcharge for all
  Project water delivered thereafter, to be covered into the Restoration Fund.
  (2) in the course of preparing the Stanislaus River Basin and Calaveras
  River Water Use Program Environmental Impact Statement and in consultation
  with the State of California, affected counties, and other interests,
  evaluate and determine existing and anticipated future basin needs in the
  Stanislaus River Basin. In the course of such evaluation, the Secretary shall
  investigate alternative storage, release, and delivery regimes, including
  but not limited to conjunctive use operations, conservation strategies,
  exchange arrangements,   and the use of base and channel maintenance flows,
  in order to best satisfy both basin and out-of-basin needs consistent, on a
  continuing basis, with the limitations and priorities established in the Act
  of October 23, 1962 (76 Stat. 173). For the purposes of this subparagraph,
  `basin needs' shall include water supply for agricultural, municipal and
  industrial uses, and maintenance and enhancement of water quality, and fish
  and wildlife resources within the Stanislaus River Basin as established
  by the Secretary's June 29, 1981 Record of Decision; and `out-of-basin'
  needs shall include all such needs outside of the Stanislaus River Basin,
  including those of the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary
  and those of the San Joaquin River under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (d) CENTRAL VALLEY REFUGES AND WILDLIFE HABITAT AREAS- In support of the
  objectives of the Central Valley Habitat Joint Venture and in furtherance of
  the purposes of this title, the Secretary shall provide, either directly or
  through contractual agreements with other appropriate parties, firm water
  supplies of suitable quality to maintain and improve wetland habitat areas
  on units of the National Wildlife Refuge System in the Central Valley of
  California; on the Gray Lodge, Los Banos, Volta, North Grasslands, and
  Mendota state wildlife management areas; and on the Grasslands Resources
  Conservation District in the Central Valley of California.
  (1) Upon enactment of this title, the quantity and delivery schedules of
  water measured at the boundaries of each wetland habitat area described
  in this paragraph shall be in accordance with level 2 of the `Dependable
  Water Supply Needs' table for those habitat areas as set forth in the
  Refuge Water Supply Report and two-thirds of the water supply needed
  for full habitat development for those habitat areas identified in the
  San Joaquin Basin Action Plan/Kesterson Mitigation Action Plan Report
  prepared by the Bureau of Reclamation. Such water shall be provided
  through long-term contractual agreements with appropriate parties and
  shall be supplemented by the increment of water provided for in paragraph
  (1) of this subsection; Provided, That the Secretary shall be obligated to
  provide such water whether or not such long-term contractual agreements are
  in effect. In implementing this paragraph, the Secretary shall endeavor to
  diversify sources of supply in order to minimize possible adverse effects
  upon Central Valley Project contractors.
  (2) Not later than ten years after enactment of this title, the quantity
  and delivery schedules of water measured at the boundaries of each wetland
  habitat area described in this paragraph shall be in accordance with level
  4 of the `Dependable Water Supply Needs' table for those habitat areas as
  set forth in the Refuge Water Supply Report and the full water supply needed
  for full habitat development for those habitat areas identified in the San
  Joaquin Basin Action Plan/Kesterson Mitigation Action Plan Report prepared
  by the Bureau of Reclamation. The quantities of water required to supplement
  the quantities provided under paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be
  acquired by the Secretary in cooperation with the State of California and
  in consultation with the Central Valley Habitat Joint Venture and other
  interests in cumulating increments of not less than ten percent per annum
  through voluntary measures which include water conservation, conjunctive use,
  purchase, lease, donations, or similar activities, or a combination of such
  activities which do not require involuntary reallocations of project yield.
  (3) All costs associated with implementation of paragraph (1) of this
  subsection shall be reimbursable pursuant to existing law. Incremental
  costs associated with implementation of paragraph (2) of this subsection
  shall be fully allocated in accordance with the following formula: 75
  percent shall be deemed a nonreimbursable Federal expenditure; and 25
  percent shall be allocated to the State of California for recovery through
  direct reimbursements or through equivalent in-kind contributions.
  (4) The Secretary may temporarily reduce deliveries of the quantity of
  water dedicated under paragraph (1) of this subsection up to 25 percent of
  such total whenever reductions due to hydrologic circumstances are imposed
  upon agricultural deliveries of Central Valley Project water; Provided,
  That such reductions shall not exceed in percentage terms the reductions
  imposed on agricultural service contractors. For the purpose of shortage
  allocation, the priority or priorities applicable to the increment of water
  provided under paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be the priority or
  priorities which applied to the water in question prior to its transfer
  to the purpose of providing such increment.
  (5) The Secretary is authorized and directed to construct or to acquire
  from non-Federal entities such water conveyance facilities, conveyance
  capacity, and wells as are necessary to implement the requirements of this
  subsection; Provided, That such authorization shall not extend to conveyance
  facilities in or around the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary. Associated
  construction or acquisition costs shall be reimbursable pursuant to existing
  law in accordance with the cost allocations set forth in paragraph (3)
  of this subsection.
  (6) The Secretary, in consultation with the State of California, the Central
  Valley Habitat Joint Venture, and other interests, shall investigate and
  report on the following supplemental actions by not later than September
  30, 1997:
  (A) alternative means of improving the reliability and quality of water
  supplies currently available to privately owned wetlands in the Central
  Valley and the need, if any, for additional supplies; and
  (B) water supply and delivery requirements necessary to permit full habitat
  development for water dependent wildlife on one hundred and twenty thousand
  acres supplemental to the existing wetland habitat acreage identified in
  Table 8 of the Central Valley Habitat Joint Venture's `Implementation Plan'
  dated April 19, 1990, as well as feasible means of meeting associated
  water supply requirements.
  (e) SUPPORTING INVESTIGATIONS- Not later than five years after the date
  of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall investigate and provide
  recommendations to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
  Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs and Merchant Marine
  and Fisheries of the House on the feasibility, cost, and desirability of
  developing and implementing each of the following, including, but not limited
  to, the impact on the project, its users, and the State of California:
  (1) measures to maintain suitable temperatures for anadromous fish survival
  in the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers and their tributaries, and the
  Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta by controlling or relocating the discharge
  of irrigation return flows and sewage effluent, and by restoring riparian
  forests;
  (2) opportunities for additional hatchery production to mitigate the
  impacts of water development and operations on, or enhance efforts to
  increase Central Valley fisheries; Provided, That additional hatchery
  production shall only be used to supplement or to re-establish natural
  production while avoiding adverse effects on remaining wild stocks;
  (3) measures to eliminate barriers to upstream and downstream migration of
  salmonids in the Central Valley, including but not limited to screening
  programs, barrier removal programs and programs for the construction or
  rehabilitation of fish ladders on tributary streams;
  (4) installation and operation of temperature control devices at Trinity
  Dam and Reservoir to assist in the Secretary's efforts to conserve cold
  water for fishery protection purposes;
  (5) measures to provide for modified operations and new or improved control
  structures at the Delta Cross Channel and Georgiana Slough to assist in
  the successful migration of anadromous fish; and
  (6) other measures which the Secretary determines would protect, restore,
  and enhance natural production of salmon and steelhead trout in tributary
  streams of the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers, including but not limited
  to the Merced, Mokulumne, and Calaveras Rivers and Battle, Butte, Deer,
  Elder, Mill, and Thomes Creeks.
  (f) REPORT ON PROJECT FISHERY IMPACTS- The Secretary, in consultation with
  the Secretary of Commerce, the State of California, appropriate Indian
  tribes, and other appropriate public and private entities, shall investigate
  and report on all effects of the Central Valley Project on anadromous
  fish populations and the fisheries, communities, tribes, businesses and
  other interests and entities that have now or in the past had significant
  economic, social or cultural association with those fishery resources. The
  Secretary shall provide such report to the Committee on Energy and Natural
  Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs
  and Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives not
  later than two years after the date of enactment of this title.
  (g) ECOSYSTEM AND WATER SYSTEM OPERATIONS MODELS- The Secretary, in
  cooperation with the State of California and other relevant interests and
  experts, shall develop readily usable and broadly available models and
  supporting data to evaluate the ecologic and hydrologic effects of existing
  and alternative operations of public and private water facilities and
  systems in the Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Trinity River watersheds. The
  primary purpose of this effort shall be to support the Secretary's efforts
  in fulfilling the requirements of this title through improved scientific
  understanding concerning, but not limited to, the following:
  (1) a comprehensive water budget of surface and groundwater supplies,
  considering all sources of inflow and outflow available over extended
  periods;
  (2) related water quality conditions and improvement alternatives,
  including improved temperature prediction capabilities as they relate to
  storage and flows;
  (3) surface-ground and stream-wetland interactions;
  (4) measures needed to restore anadromous fisheries to optimum and
  sustainable levels in accordance with the restored carrying capacities of
  Central Valley rivers, streams, and riparian habitats;
  (5) development and use of base flows and channel maintenance flows to
  protect and restore natural channel and riparian habitat values;
  (6) implementation of operational regimes at State and Federal facilities
  to increase springtime flow releases, retain additional floodwaters,
  and assist in restoring both upriver and downriver riparian habitats;
  (7) measures designed to reach sustainable harvest levels of resident and
  anadromous fish, including development and use of systems of tradeable
  harvest rights;
  (8) opportunities to protect and restore wetland and upland habitats
  throughout the Central Valley; and
  (9) measures to enhance the firm yield of existing Central Valley Project
  facilities, including improved management and operations, conjunctive
  use opportunities, development of offstream storage, levee setbacks,
  and riparian restoration.
All studies and investigations shall take into account and be fully consistent
with the fish, wildlife, and habitat protection and restoration measures
required by this title or by any other State or Federal law. Seventy-five
percent of the costs associated with implementation of this subsection shall
be borne by the United States as a nonreimbursable cost; the remaining 25
percent shall be borne by the State of California.
  (h) The Secretary shall enter into a binding cost-share agreement
  with the State of California with respect to the timely reimbursement
  of costs allocated to the State in this title. Such agreement shall
  provide for consideration of the value of direct reimbursements, specific
  contributions to the Restoration Fund, and water, conveyance capacity,
  or other contributions in-kind that would supplement existing programs
  and that would, as determined by the Secretary, materially contribute to
  attainment of the goals and objectives of this title.
SEC. 3407. RESTORATION FUND.
  (a) RESTORATION FUND ESTABLISHED- There is hereby established in the
  Treasury of the United States the `Central Valley Project Restoration Fund'
  (hereafter `Restoration Fund') which shall be available for deposit of
  donations from any source and revenues provided under sections 3404(c)(3),
  3405(f), 3406(c)(1), and 3407(d) of this title. Amounts deposited shall be
  credited as offsetting collections. Not less than 67 percent of all funds
  made available to the Restoration Fund under this title are authorized to
  be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the habitat restoration,
  improvement and acquisition (from willing sellers) provisions of this
  title. Not more than 33 percent of all funds made available to the
  Restoration Fund under this title are authorized to be appropriated to
  the Secretary to carry out the provisions of paragraphs 3406(b)(4)-(6),
  (10)-(18), and (20)-(22) of this title. Monies donated to the Restoration
  Fund by non-Federal entities for specific purposes shall be expended for
  those purposes only and shall not be subject to appropriation.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Such sums as are necessary, up to
  $50,000,000  per year (October 1992 price levels), are authorized to be
  appropriated to the Secretary to be derived from the Restoration Fund to
  carry out programs, projects, plans, and habitat restoration, improvement,
  and acquisition provisions of this title. Any funds paid into the Restoration
  Fund by Central Valley Project water and power contractors and which are
  also used to pay for the projects and facilities set forth in section
  3406(b), shall act as an offset against any water and power contractor
  cost share obligations that are otherwise provided for in this title.
  (c) MITIGATION AND RESTORATION PAYMENTS BY WATER AND POWER BENEFICIARIES-
  (1) To the extent required in appropriation Acts, the Secretary shall
  assess and collect additional annual mitigation and restoration payments, in
  addition to the charges provided for or collected under sections 3404(c)(3),
  3405(a)(1)(C), 3405(f), and 3406(c)(1) of this title, consisting of charges
  to direct beneficiaries of the Central Valley Project under subsection (d)
  of this section in order to recover a portion or all of the costs of fish,
  wildlife, and habitat restoration programs and projects under this title.
  (2) The payment described in this subsection shall be established at
  amounts that will result in collection, during each fiscal year, of an
  amount that can be reasonably expected to equal the amount appropriated
  each year, subject to subsection (d) of this section, and in combination
  with all other receipts identified under this title, to carry out the
  purposes identified in subsection (b) of this section; Provided, That,
  if the total amount appropriated under subsection (b) of this section
  for the fiscal years following enactment of this title does not equal
  $50,000,000 per year (October 1992 price levels) on an average annual
  basis, the Secretary shall impose such charges in fiscal year 1998 and in
  each fiscal year thereafter, subject to the limitations in subsection (d)
  of this section, as may be required to yield in fiscal year 1998 and in
  each fiscal year thereafter total collections equal to $50,000,000  per
  year (October 1992 price levels) on a three-year rolling average basis
  for each fiscal year that follows enactment of this title.
  (d) Adjustment and Assessment of Mitigation and Restoration Payments-
  (1) In assessing the annual payments to carry out subsection (c) of this
  section, the Secretary shall, prior to each fiscal year, estimate the amount
  that could be collected in each fiscal year pursuant to subparagraphs 2(A)
  and (B) of this subsection. The Secretary shall decrease all such payments
  on a proportionate basis from amounts contained in the estimate so that
  an aggregate amount is collected pursuant to the requirements of paragraph
  (c)(2) of this section.
  (2) The Secretary shall assess and collect the following mitigation and
  restoration payments, to be covered to the Restoration Fund, subject to
  the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection:
  (A) The Secretary shall require Central Valley Project water and power
  contractors to make such additional annual payments as are necessary to
  yield, together with all other receipts, the amount required under paragraph
  (c)(2) of this subsection; Provided, That such additional payments shall
  not exceed $30,000,000 (October 1992 price levels) on a three-year rolling
  average basis; Provided further, That such additional annual payments
  shall be allocated so as not to exceed $6  per acre-foot (October 1992
  price levels) for agricultural water sold and delivered by the Central
  Valley Project, and $12  per acre-foot (October 1992 price levels) for
  municipal and industrial water sold and delivered by the Central Valley
  Project; Provided further, That the charge imposed on agricultural water
  shall be reduced, if necessary, to an amount within the probable ability
  of the water users to pay as determined and adjusted by the Secretary no
  less than every five years, taking into account the benefits resulting
  from implementation of this title; Provided further, That the Secretary
  shall impose an additional annual charge of $25 per acre-foot (October
  1992 price levels) for Central Valley Project water sold or transferred to
  any State or local agency or other entity which has not previously been
  a Central Valley Project customer and which contracts with the Secretary
  or any other individual or district receiving Central Valley Project
  water to purchase or otherwise transfer any such water for its own use
  for municipal and industrial purposes, to be deposited in the Restoration
  Fund; And Provided further, That upon the completion of the fish, wildlife,
  and habitat mitigation and restoration actions mandated under section 3406
  of this title, the Secretary shall reduce the sums described in paragraph
  (c)(2) of this section to $35,000,000 per year (October 1992 price levels)
  and shall reduce the annual mitigation and restoration payment ceiling
  established under this subsection to $15,000,000 (October 1992 price levels)
  on a three-year rolling average basis. The amount of the mitigation and
  restoration payment made by Central Valley Project water and power users,
  taking into account all funds collected under this title, shall, to the
  greatest degree practicable, be assessed in the same proportion, measured
  over a ten-year rolling average, as water and power users' respective
  allocations for repayment of the Central Valley Project.
  (e) FUNDING TO NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES- If the Secretary determines that the
  State of California or an agency or subdivision thereof, an Indian tribe,
  or a nonprofit entity concerned with restoration, protection, or enhancement
  of fish, wildlife, habitat, or environmental values is able to assist in
  implementing any action authorized by this title in an efficient, timely,
  and cost effective manner, the Secretary is authorized to provide funding
  to such entity on such terms and conditions as he deems necessary to assist
  in implementing the identified action.
  (f) RESTORATION FUND FINANCIAL REPORTS- The Secretary shall, not later than
  the first full fiscal year after enactment of this title, and annually
  thereafter, submit a detailed report to the Committee on Energy and
  Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and
  the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, the Committee on Merchant
  Marine and Fisheries, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
  Representatives. Such report shall describe all receipts to and uses made
  of monies within the Restoration Fund and the Restoration Account during
  the prior fiscal year and shall include the Secretary's projection with
  respect to receipts to and uses to be made of the finds during the next
  upcoming fiscal year.
SEC. 3408. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITIES.
  (a) REGULATIONS AND AGREEMENTS AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized and
  directed to promulgate such regulations and enter into such agreements as may
  be necessary to implement the intent, purposes and provisions of this title.
  (b) USE OF ELECTRICAL ENERGY- Electrical energy used to operate and maintain
  facilities developed for fish and wildlife purposes pursuant to this title,
  including that used for groundwater development, shall be deemed as Central
  Valley Project power and shall, if reimbursable, be repaid in accordance
  with Reclamation law at a price not higher than the lowest price paid by
  or charged to other Central Valley Project contractors.
  (c) CONTRACTS FOR ADDITIONAL STORAGE AND DELIVERY OF WATER- The Secretary
  is authorized to enter into contracts pursuant to Reclamation law and this
  title with any Federal agency, California water user or water agency, State
  agency, or private nonprofit organization for the exchange, impoundment,
  storage, carriage, and delivery of Central Valley Project and non-project
  water for domestic, municipal, industrial, fish and wildlife, and any
  other beneficial purpose, except that nothing in this subsection shall
  be deemed to supersede the provisions of section 103 of Public Law 99-546
  (100 Stat. 3051).
  (d) USE OF PROJECT FACILITIES FOR WATER BANKING- The Secretary, in
  consultation with the State of California, is authorized to enter
  into agreements to allow project contracting entities to use project
  facilities, where such facilities are not otherwise committed or required
  to fulfill project purposes or other Federal obligations, for supplying
  carry-over storage of irrigation and other water for drought protection,
  multiple-benefit credit-storage operations, and other purposes. The use
  of such water shall be consistent with and subject to State law. All or a
  portion of the water provided for fish and wildlife under this title may
  be banked for fish and wildlife purposes in accordance with this subsection.
  (e) LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION- This title does not and shall not be
  interpreted to authorize construction of water storage facilities, nor
  shall it limit the Secretary's ability to participate in water banking or
  conjunctive use programs.
  (f) ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Not later than September 30 of each calendar
  year after the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall submit
  a detailed report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
  Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee on
  Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives. Such report
  shall describe all significant actions taken by the Secretary pursuant to
  this title and progress toward achievement of the intent, purposes and
  provisions of this title. Such report shall include recommendations for
  authorizing legislation or other measures, if any, needed to implement
  the intent, purposes and provisions of this title.
  (g) RECLAMATION LAW- This title shall amend and supplement the Act of June
  17, 1902, and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof.
  (h) LAND RETIREMENT-
  (1) The Secretary is authorized to purchase from willing sellers land and
  associated water rights and other property interests identified in paragraph
  (h)(2) which receives Central Valley Project water under a contract executed
  with the United States, and to target such purchases to areas deemed most
  beneficial to the overall purchase program, including the purposes of
  this title.
  (2) The Secretary is authorized to purchase, under the authority of
  paragraph (h)(i), and pursuant to such rules and regulations as may be
  adopted or promulgated to implement the provisions of this subsection,
  agricultural land which, in the opinion of the Secretary--
  (A) would, if permanently retired from irrigation, improve water
  conservation by a district, or improve the quality of an irrigation
  district's agricultural wastewater and assist the district in implementing
  the provisions of a water conservation plan approved under section
  210 of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 and agricultural wastewater
  management activities developed pursuant to recommendations specific to water
  conservation, drainage source reduction, and land retirement contained in the
  final report of the San Joaquin Valley Drainage Program (September, 1990); or
  (B) are no longer suitable for sustained agricultural production because of
  permanent damage resulting from severe drainage or agricultural wastewater
  management problems, groundwater withdrawals, or other causes.
  (i) WATER CONSERVATION-
  (1) The Secretary is authorized to undertake, in cooperation with Central
  Valley Project irrigation contractors, water conservation projects or
  measures needed to meet the requirements of this title. The Secretary
  shall execute a cost-sharing agreement for any such project or measure
  undertaken. Under such agreement, the Secretary is authorized to pay
  up to 100 percent of the costs of such projects or measures. Any water
  saved by such projects or measures shall be governed by the conditions
  of subparagraph 3405(a)(1) (A) and (J) of this title, and shall be made
  available to the Secretary in proportion to the Secretary's contribution
  to the total cost of such project or measure. Such water shall be used
  by the Secretary to meet the Secretary's obligations under this title,
  including the requirements of paragraph 3406(b)(3). Such projects or
  measures must be implemented fully by September 30, 1999.
  (2) There are authorized to be appropriated through the end of fiscal
  year 1998 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
  this subsection. Funds appropriated under this subsection shall be a
  nonreimbursable Federal expenditure.
  (j) PROJECT YIELD INCREASE- In order to minimize adverse effects, if any,
  upon existing Central Valley Project water contractors resulting from
  the water dedicated to fish and wildlife under this title, and to assist
  the State of California in meeting its future water needs, the Secretary
  shall, not later than three years after the date of enactment of this
  title, develop and submit to the Congress, a least-cost plan to increase,
  within fifteen years after the date of enactment of this title, the yield
  of the Central Valley Project by the amount dedicated to fish and wildlife
  purposes under this title. The plan authorized by this subsection shall
  include, but shall not be limited to a description of how the Secretary
  intends to use the following options:
  (1) improvements in, modification of, or additions to the facilities and
  operations of the project;
  (2) conservation;
  (3) transfers;
  (4) conjunctive use;
  (5) purchase of water;
  (6) purchase and idling of agricultural land; and
  (7) direct purchase of water rights.
Such plan shall include recommendations on appropriate cost-sharing
arrangements and shall be developed in a manner consistent with all applicable
State and Federal law.
  (k) Except as specifically provided in this title, nothing in this title
  is intended to alter the terms of any final judicial decree confirming or
  determining water rights.
SEC. 3409. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.
  Not later than three years after the date of enactment of this title,
  the Secretary shall prepare and complete a programmatic environmental
  impact statement pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act
  analyzing the direct and indirect impacts and benefits of implementing
  this title, including all fish, wildlife, and habitat restoration actions
  and the potential renewal of all existing Central Valley Project water
  contracts. Such statement shall consider impacts and benefits within the
  Sacramento, San Joaquin, and Trinity River basins, and the San Francisco
  Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta Estuary. The cost of the environmental
  impact statement described in this section shall be treated as a capital
  expense in accordance with Reclamation law.
SEC. 3410. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
  to carry out the provisions of this title. Funds appropriated under this
  title shall remain available until expended without fiscal year limitation.
SEC. 3411. COMPLIANCE WITH STATE WATER LAW AND COORDINATED OPERATIONS
AGREEMENT.
  (a) Nothwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Secretary shall,
  prior to the reallocation of water from any purpose of use or place of use
  specified within applicable Central Valley Project water rights permits
  and licenses to a purpose of use or place of use not specified within said
  permits or licenses, obtain a modification in those permits and licenses,
  in a manner consistent with the provisions of applicable State law, to
  allow such change in purpose of use or place of use.
  (b) The Secretary, in the implementation of the provisions of this title,
  shall fully comply with the United States' obligations as set forth in
  the `Agreement Between the United States of America and the Department
  of Water Resources of the State of California for Coordinated Operation
  of the Central Valley Project and the State Water Project' dated May 20,
  1985, and the provisions of Public Law  99-546; and shall take no action
  which shifts an obligation that otherwise should be borne by the Central
  Valley Project to any other lawful water rights permittee or licensee.
SEC. 3412. EXTENSION OF THE TEHAMA-COLUSA CANAL SERVICE AREA.
  The first paragraph of section 2 of the Act of September 26, 1950 (64
  Stat. 1036), as amended by the Act of August 19, 1967 (81 Stat. 167), and
  the Act of December 22, 1980 (94 Stat. 3339), authorizing the Sacramento
  Valley Irrigation Canals, Central Valley Project, California, is further
  amended by striking `Tehama, Glenn, and Colusa Counties, and those portions
  of Yolo County within the boundaries of the Colusa  County, Dunnigan, and
  Yolo-Zamora water districts or' and inserting `Tehama, Glenn, Colusa, Solano,
  and Napa Counties, those portions of Yolo County within the boundaries of
  Colusa County Water District, Dunnigan Water District, Yolo-Zamora Water
  District, and Yolo County Flood Control and Water Conservation District, or'.
TITLE XXXV--THREE AFFILIATED TRIBES AND STANDING ROCK SIOUX TRIBE EQUITABLE
COMPENSATION PROGRAM, NORTH DAKOTA
SEC. 3501. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Three Affiliated Tribes and Standing Rock
  Sioux Tribe Equitable Compensation Act'.
SEC. 3502. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title, the term--
  (1) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
  (2) `Three Affiliated Tribes' means the Mandan, Hidatsa, and Arikara Tribes
  that reside on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation, a Federal reservation
  established by treaty and agreement between the Tribes and the United States;
  (3) `Standing Rock Sioux Tribe' means the members of the Great Sioux Nation
  that reside on the Standing Rock Indian Reservation, established by treaty
  between the Tribe and the United States; and
  (4) `Joint Tribal Advisory Committee' means the commission established by
  the Secretary on May 10, 1985, for the purpose of assessing the impacts of
  the Garrison and Oahe Dams on the Three Affiliated Tribes and the Standing
  Rock Sioux Tribe.
SEC. 3503. FINDINGS; DECLARATIONS.
  (a) FINDINGS- In recognition of the findings, conclusions, and
  recommendations of the Secretary's Joint Tribal Advisory Committee, Congress
  finds that the Three Affiliated Tribes and the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe
  should be adequately compensated for the taking, in the case of the Three
  Affiliated Tribes, of one hundred and fifty-six thousand acres of reservation
  lands and, in the case of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe,  fifty-six thousand
  acres of reservation lands, as the site for the Garrison Dam and Reservoir,
  and the Oahe Dam and Reservoir. Congress concurs in the Advisory Committee's
  findings and conclusions that the Untied States Government did not justly
  compensate such Tribes when it acquired those lands.
  (b) DECLARATIONS- (1) The Congress declares that the Three Affiliated
  Tribes are entitled to additional financial compensation for the taking
  of one hundred and fifty-six thousand acres of their reservation lands,
  including thousands of acres of prime agricultural bottom lands, as the
  site for the Garrison Dam and Reservoir, and that such amounts should be
  deposited in the Recovery Fund established by section 3504(a) for use in
  accordance with this title.
  (2) The Congress declares that the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is entitled
  to additional financial compensation for the taking of over  fifty-six
  thousand acres of its reservation lands, as the site for the Oahe Dam and
  Reservoir, and that such amounts should be deposited in the Standing Rock
  Sioux Tribe Economic Recovery Fund established by section 3504(b) for use
  in accordance with this title.
SEC. 3504. FUNDS.
  (a) THREE AFFILIATED TRIBES ECONOMIC RECOVERY FUND- (1) There is established
  in the Treasury of the United States the `Three Affiliated Tribes Economic
  Recovery Fund' (hereinafter referred to as the `Recovery Fund').
  (2) Commencing with fiscal year 1993, and each fiscal year thereafter,
  the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit in the Three Affiliated
  Tribes Economic Recovery Fund an amount, which shall be nonreimbursable
  and nonreturnable equal to 25 percent of the receipts from deposits to the
  United States Treasury for the preceding fiscal year from the integrated
  programs of the Eastern Division of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin
  Project administered by the Western Area Power Administration, but in no
  event shall the aggregate of the amounts deposited to the Fund established
  by this subsection for compensation for the Three Affiliated Tribes pursuant
  to this paragraph and paragraph (3) exceed $149,200,000.
  (3) For payment to the Three Affiliated Tribes of amounts to which
  they remain entitled pursuant to the Act entitled `An Act to make
  certain provisions in connection with the construction of the Garrison
  Diversion unit, Missouri River Basin Project, by the Secretary of the
  Interior,' approved August 5, 1965 (79 Stat. 433), there is authorized
  to be appropriated to the Recovery Fund established by subsection (a)
  for fiscal year 1994 and each of the next following nine fiscal years,
  the sum of $6,000,000.
  (4) The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit the interest which accrues
  on deposits to the Three Affiliated Tribes Economic Recovery Fund in a
  separate account in the Treasury of the United States. Such interest shall
  be available, without fiscal year limitation, for use by the Secretary of the
  Interior, commencing with fiscal year 1998, and each fiscal year thereafter,
  in making payments to the Three Affiliated Tribes for use for educational,
  social welfare, economic development, and other programs, subject to the
  approval of the Secretary. No part of the principal of the Three Affiliated
  Tribes Economic Development Fund shall be available for making such payments.
  (b) STANDING ROCK SIOUX TRIBE ECONOMIC RECOVERY FUND- (1) There is
  established in the Treasury of the United States the `Standing Rock Sioux
  Tribe Economic Recovery Fund.'
  (2) Commencing with fiscal year 1993, and for each fiscal year thereafter,
  the Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit in the Standing Rock Sioux
  Tribe Economic Recovery Fund an amount, which shall be nonreimbursable
  and nonreturnable equal to 25 percent of the receipts from deposits to the
  United States Treasury for the preceding fiscal year from the integrated
  programs of the Eastern Division of the Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin
  Project administered by the Western Area Power Administration, but in no
  event shall the aggregate of the amounts deposited to the Recovery Fund
  established by this subsection for compensation for the Standing Rock
  Sioux Tribe pursuant to this paragraph exceed $90,600,000.
  (3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall deposit the interest which accrues
  on deposits to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Economic Recovery Fund in a
  separate account in the Treasury of the United States. Such interest shall
  be available, without fiscal year limitation, for use by the Secretary
  of the Interior, commencing with fiscal year 1998, and each fiscal year
  thereafter, in making payments to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe for use
  for educational, social welfare, economic development, and other programs,
  subject to the approval of the Secretary. No part of the principal of the
  Standing Rock Sioux Tribe Economic Recovery Fund shall be available for
  making such payments.
SEC. 3505. ELIGIBILITY FOR OTHER SERVICES NOT AFFECTED.
  No payments pursuant to this title shall result in the reduction, or the
  denial, of any Federal services or programs that the Three Affiliated Tribes
  or the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, or any of their members, are otherwise
  entitled to, or eligible for, because of their status as a federally
  recognized Indian tribe or member pursuant to Federal law. No payments
  pursuant to this title shall be subject to Federal or State income tax,
  or affect Pick-Sloan Missouri River Basin power rates in any way.
SEC. 3506. PER CAPITA PAYMENTS PROHIBITED.
  No part of any moneys in any fund under this title shall be distributed
  to any member of the Three Affiliated Tribes or the Standing Rock Sioux
  Tribe on a per capita basis.
SEC. 3507. STANDING ROCK SIOUX INDIAN RESERVATION.
  (a) IRRIGATION- The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to develop
  irrigation within the boundaries of the Standing Rock Indian Reservation in
  a two thousand three hundred and eighty acre project service area, except
  that no appropriated funds are authorized to be expended for construction
  of this project unless the Secretary has made a finding of irrigability
  of the lands to receive water as required by the Act of July 31, 1953
  (43 U.S.C. 390a). Repayment for the units authorized under this subsection
  shall be made pursuant to the Act of July 1, 1932 (25 U.S.C. 386a).
  (b) SPECIFIC- There is authorized to be appropriated, in addition to any
  other amounts authorized by this title, or any other law, to the Secretary
  of the Interior $4,660,000 for use by the Secretary of the Interior in
  carrying out irrigation projects for the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.
  (c) DISCLAIMER- This section shall not limit future irrigation development,
  in the event that such irrigation is subsequently authorized.
SEC. 3508. TRANSFER OF LANDS.
  (a) FORMER TRIBAL LANDS- (1) Except as provided in  subsection (j), the
  Secretary of the Army shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the
  lands described in paragraph (2) (including the improvements thereon) to the
  Secretary of the Interior to be administered as set out in subsection (d).
  (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are those Federal lands which
  were acquired from the Three Affiliated Tribes by the United States for
  the Garrison Dam Project pursuant to the Act of October 29, 1949 and which
  are within the external boundary of the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation
  and located at or above contour elevation one thousand eight hundred and
  sixty feet mean sea level.
  (b) FOUR BEARS AREA- All rights, title, and interest of the United States
  in the following described lands (including the improvements thereon)
  and underlying Federal minerals are hereby declared to be held in trust
  by the United States for the Three Affiliated Tribes as part of the Fort
  Berthold Indian Reservation:
  (1) approximately 142.2 acres, more or less, lying above contour elevation
  one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four feet mean sea level and located
  south of the southerly right-of-way line of North Dakota State Highway
  No. 23, in the following sections of Township 152 North, range 93 west of
  the 5th principal meridian, McKenzie County, North Dakota:
  Section 15: south half of the southwest quarter;
  Section 21: northeast quarter and northwest quarter of the southeast quarter;
  Section 22: north half of the northwest quarter; and
  (2) approximately 45.80 acres, more or less, situated in the east half of
  the southwest quarter and the east half of the west half of the southwest
  quarter of section 15, lying at or above contour elevation one thousand
  eight hundred and fifty-four  mean sea level, located north of the northerly
  right-of-way line of North Dakota State Highway No. 23 and Southeasterly
  of the following described line:
  Commencing at a point on the west line of said section 15, said point
  being 528.00 feet Northerly of the existing northerly right-of-way line
  of North Dakota State Highway No. 23; thence north 77 00 00 east to the
  west line of said east half of the west half of the southwest quarter of
  section 15, and the point of beginning of such line; thence northeasterly
  to the northwest corner of the east half of the southwest quarter and the
  point of termination.
  (c) FORMER NONTRIBAL LANDS- (1) Except as provided in subsection (j), the
  Secretary of the Army shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the
  lands described in paragraph (2) (including the improvements thereon) to the
  Secretary of the Interior to be administered as set out in subsection (d).
  (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are--
  (A) those Federal lands acquired from individual Indian owners by the
  United States for the Garrison Dam Project pursuant to the Act of October
  29, 1949; and
  (B) those lands acquired from non-Indian owners by the United States for
  such Project (either by purchase or condemnation);
and which are within the external boundary of the Fort Berthold Reservation,
and located at or above contour elevation one thousand eight hundred and
sixty feet mean sea level.
  (d) RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL- (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall,
  within one year following the date of the enactment of this title, offer
  to the Three Affiliated Tribes, and to such individual Indian owners and
  non-Indian owners from whom such lands were acquired, or their heirs or
  assigns, a right of first refusal, for a period to be determined by the
  Secretary of the Interior not to exceed twelve months following notice
  of the offer to such Tribes, owners, heirs, or assigns, to purchase at
  fair market value any land, in the case of the Three Affiliated Tribes,
  described in subsection (b), and in the case of individual Indian and
  non-Indian owners, described in subsection (c), which was so acquired. If
  any such former owner, or his or her heirs or assigns, refuses or fails
  to exercise his or her right to repurchase, an option to purchase such
  land shall be afforded to the Three Affiliated Tribes.
  (2) Lands purchased from the Secretary of the Interior by former owners, or
  their heirs or assigns, under this subsection shall not be sold by former
  owners, their heirs or assigns, within the 5-year period following such
  purchase, unless the Three Affiliated Tribes has been afforded a right of
  first refusal to purchase such lands. Such right of first refusal shall
  afford the Tribes--
  (A) thirty days from such notification to inform the prospective seller
  whether the Tribes intend to exercise their right of first refusal to
  purchase such lands at the price of the bona fide offer; and
  (B) one year from such notification to complete the purchase of such lands
  under their right of first refusal.
  (e) CONSIDERATION- In consideration for the transfer of the lands described
  above, the Secretary of the Interior, or his designee, shall be responsible
  for determining the location of contour elevations one thousand eight
  hundred and sixty  feet mean sea level (for subsections (a) and (c))
  and one thousand eight hundred and fifty-four feet mean sea level (for
  subsection (b)) by surveying and monumenting such contour at intervals
  no greater than five hundred  feet. The survey and monumentation shall be
  completed within two years after the date of the enactment of this title.
  (f) RESERVATIONS- The United States hereby reserves the perpetual right,
  power, privilege, and easement permanently to overflow, flood, submerge,
  saturate, percolate, and erode the land described in subsections (a), (b),
  and (c) in connection with the operation and maintenance of the Garrison
  Dam Project, as authorized by the Act of Congress approved December 22,
  1944, and the continuing right to clear and remove any brush, debris, and
  natural obstructions which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Army,
  may be detrimental to the Project. The Three Affiliated Tribes, and the
  owners or their heirs or assigns who reacquired such lands pursuant to
  this title may exercise all other rights and privileges on the land except
  for those rights and privileges which would interfere with or abridge the
  rights and easements hereby reserved.
  (g) PROHIBITIONS- With respect to any lands described in this section
  that are below one thousand eight hundred and sixty feet mean sea level,
  no structures for human habitation shall be constructed or maintained on
  the land, and no other structures shall be constructed or maintained on
  the land except as may be approved in writing by the Secretary of the Army.
  (h) EXCAVATION- With respect to lands described in subsection (a), (b),
  or (c), no excavation shall be conducted and no landfill placed on the
  land without approval by the Secretary of the Army as to the location and
  method of excavation or placement of landfill.
  (i) DISCLAIMER- Nothing in this section shall deprive any person of any
  right-of-way, leasehold, or other right, interest, or claim which such
  person may have in the lands described in subsections (a), (b), and (c)
  prior to the date of the enactment of this title.
  (j) TRUST LANDS- (1) All rights, title, and interest of the United States
  in the improvements and recreation facilities described in paragraph (2)
  are hereby declared to be held in trust by the United States for the Three
  Affiliated Tribes.
  (2) The improvements and facilities referred to in paragraph (1) are the
  Red Butte Bay Public Use Area and the Deepwater Bay Public Use Area. The
  recreation facilities include those facilities located both above and
  below contour elevation 1,860 feet mean sea level.
  (3) The improvements and facilities described in this subsection are
  transferred as is and without warranty of any kind, and the Corps of
  Engineers shall have no obligation or responsibility to operate, maintain,
  repair, or replace any of such improvements or facilities. Operation
  and maintenance of the improvements and recreational facilities in this
  subsection shall be the responsibility of the Department of the Interior.
SEC. 3509. TRANSFER OF LANDS AT OAHE DAM AND LAKE PROJECT.
  (a) FORMER TRIBAL LANDS- (1) Except as provided in subsection (i), the
  Secretary of the Army shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the
  lands described in paragraph (2) (including the improvements thereon) to the
  Secretary of the Interior to be administered as set out in subsection (c).
  (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are those Federal lands which
  were acquired from the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe by the United States for
  the Oahe Dam Reservoir Project pursuant to the Act of September 2, 1958
  (Public Law 85-915), and--
  (A) which extend southerly from the south shore of Cannonball River,
  in Sioux County, North Dakota, to a point along the boundary between the
  Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Indian Reservations, in Dewey County,
  South Dakota; and
  (B) which are located at or above contour elevation one thousand six
  hundred and twenty feet mean sea level.
  (b) FORMER NONTRIBAL LANDS- (1) Except as provided in subsection (i), the
  Secretary of the Army shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the
  lands described in paragraph (2) (including the improvements thereon) to the
  Secretary of the Interior to be administered as set out in subsection (c).
  (2) The lands referred to in paragraph (1) are those Federal lands acquired
  from individual Indian owners by the United States for the Oahe Dam and
  Reservoir Project pursuant to the Act of September 2, 1958 (Public Law
  85-915), and from non-Indian owners (either by purchase or condemnation), and
  (A) which extend southerly from the south shore of the Cannonball River,
  in Sioux County, North Dakota to a point along the boundary between the
  Standing Rock and Cheyenne River Indian Reservations, in Dewey County,
  South Dakota; and
  (B) which are located at or above contour elevation one thousand six
  hundred and twenty feet mean sea level.
  (c) RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL- (1) The Secretary of the Interior shall,
  within one year following the date of the enactment of this title, offer
  to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, and to such individual Indian owners
  and non-Indian owners from whom such lands were acquired, or their heirs
  or assigns, a right of first refusal, for a period to be determined by the
  Secretary of the Interior not to exceed twelve months following notice of
  the offer to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, owners, heirs or assigns, to
  purchase at fair market value any land, in the case of the Standing Rock
  Sioux Tribe, described in subsection (a), and in the case of individual
  Indian and non-Indian owners, described in subsection (b), which was so
  acquired. If any such owner, or his or her heirs or assigns, refuses or
  fails to exercise their right to repurchase, an option to purchase such
  lands shall be afforded to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe.
  (2) Lands purchased from the Secretary of the Interior by such former
  owners, or their heirs or assigns, under this subsection shall not be
  sold by the former owners, their heirs or assigns, within the five-year
  period following such purchase, unless the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe has
  been afforded a right of first refusal to purchase such lands. Such right
  of first refusal shall afford the Tribe--
  (A) thirty days from such notification to inform the prospective seller
  whether the Tribe intends to exercise its right of first refusal to purchase
  such lands at the price of the bona fide offer, and
  (B) one year from such notification to complete the purchase of such lands
  under its right of first refusal.
  (d) CONSIDERATION- In consideration for the transfer of the lands described
  above, the Secretary of the Interior, or his designee, shall be responsible
  for determining the location of contour elevation one thousand six hundred
  and twenty feet mean sea level by surveying and monumenting such contour at
  intervals no greater than five hundred feet. The survey and monumentation
  shall be completed within two years after the date of the enactment of
  this title.
  (e) RESERVATIONS- The United States hereby reserves the perpetual right,
  power, privilege and easement permanently to overflow, flood, submerge,
  saturate, percolate and erode the land described in subsections (a) and
  (b) in connection with the operation and maintenance of the Oahe Dam and
  Lake Project, as authorized by the Act of Congress approved December 22,
  1944, and the continuing right to clear and remove any brush, debris
  and natural obstructions which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the
  Army may be detrimental to the Project. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe,
  and the owners or their heirs and assigns, who reacquired any such lands
  pursuant to this title, may exercise all other rights and privileges on
  the land except for those rights and privileges which would interfere with
  or abridge the rights and easement hereby reserved.
  (f) PROHIBITIONS- With respect to lands described in this section that
  are below one thousand six hundred and twenty feet mean sea level, no
  structures for human habitation shall be constructed or maintained on the
  land and no other structures shall be constructed or maintained on the
  land  except as may be approved in writing by the Secretary of the Army.
  (g) EXCAVATION- With respect to lands described in subsections (a) or
  (b), no excavation shall be conducted and no landfill placed on the land
  without approval by the Secretary of the Army as to the location and method
  of excavation or placement of landfill.
  (h) DISCLAIMER- Nothing in this section shall deprive any person of any
  right-of-way, leasehold, or other right, interest, or claim which such
  person may have in the lands described in subsections (a) and (b) prior
  to the date of the enactment of this title.
  (i) TRUST LANDS- (1) All rights, title and interest of the United States in
  the improvements and recreation facilities described in paragraph (2) are
  hereby declared to be held in trust by the United States for the Standing
  Rock Sioux Tribe.
  (2) The improvements and facilities referred to in paragraph (1) are the
  levee around the City of Fort Yates, North Dakota, and the recreation
  facilities located at the Fort Yates Recreation Area, the Walker Bottoms
  Recreation Area, and the Grand River Recreation Area, including those
  recreation facilities located both above and below contour elevation one
  thousand six hundred and twenty feet mean sea level.
  (3) The improvements and facilities described in this subsection are
  transferred as is and without warranty of any kind, and the Corps of
  Engineers shall have no obligation or responsibility to operate, maintain,
  repair or replace any of such improvements or facilities. Operation
  and maintenance of the improvements and recreational facilities in this
  subsection shall be the responsibility of the Department of the Interior.
  (j) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding subsection (i), the transfer of such
  improvements and facilities pursuant to subsection (i) does not include
  the improvements and facilities located at the Indian Memorial Recreation
  Area and the Grand River Fish Spawning Station, unless and until the State
  of South Dakota consents in writing and then only upon amendment of the
  `Agreement Between the United States and the State of South Dakota for
  Recreation and Fish and Wildlife Development at Lake Oahe, South Dakota'
  entered into on September 2, 1983, which amendment shall specifically
  provide for such transfer.
  (k) FISH AND WILDLIFE- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the lands
  transferred under subsection (a) which, prior to the date of enactment
  of this title, were designated by the Corps of Engineers as mitigation
  lands for purposes of fish and wildlife conservation in accordance with
  the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1958, shall be included in
  any subsequent determination of the Corps' compliance with the fish and
  wildlife mitigation requirements of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act
  of 1958. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe shall use its best efforts to conduct
  fish and wildlife conservation and mitigation on such lands. Notwithstanding
  the provisions of the Fish and Wildlife Conservation Act of 1958, the State
  of South Dakota shall have no claim, right, or cause of action pursuant to
  Federal law to compel designation of additional lands currently under the
  jurisdiction of the Corps of Engineers, for purposes of fish and wildlife
  conservation in lieu of the lands transferred by subsection (a).
SEC. 3510. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
  Section 10(a)(2) of Public Law 89-108 is amended by striking `$67,910,000'
  and inserting `$7,910,000.'
SEC. 3511. AUTHORIZATION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
  carry out the provisions of section 3504 of this title.
TITLE XXXVI--SONOMA BAYLANDS WETLAND DEMONSTRATION PROJECT, CALIFORNIA
SEC. 3601. SONOMA BAYLANDS WETLAND DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Army is directed to develop and carry
  out in accordance with this section a three hundred and twenty-acre Sonoma
  Baylands wetland demonstration project in the San Francisco Bay-Delta
  estuary, California. The project shall utilize dredged material suitable
  for aquatic disposal to restore, protect, and expand the Sonoma Baylands
  for the purposes of preserving waterfowl, fish, and other wetland dependent
  species of plants and animals and to provide flood control, water quality
  improvement, and sedimentation control.
  (b) ADDITIONAL PROJECT PURPOSES- In addition to the purposes described in
  subsection (a), the purposes of the project under this section are to restore
  tidal wetlands, provide habitat for endangered species, expand the feeding
  and nesting areas for waterfowl along the Pacific flyway, and demonstrate
  the use of suitable dredged material as a resource, facilitating the
  completion of Bay Area dredging projects in an environmentally sound manner.
  (c) PLAN-
  (1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT- The Secretary, in cooperation with appropriate
  Federal and State agencies, and in accordance with applicable Federal and
  State environmental laws, shall develop in accordance with this subsection
  a plan for implementation of the Sonoma Baylands project under this section.
  (2) CONTENTS- The plan shall include initial design and engineering,
  construction, general implementation and site monitoring.
  (3) TARGET DATES-
  (A) FIRST PHASE- The first phase of the plan for final design and
  engineering shall be completed within six months of the date of the
  enactment of this Act.
  (B) SECOND PHASE- The second phase of the plan, including the construction
  of on-site improvements, shall be completed within ten months of the date
  of the enactment of this Act.
  (C) THIRD PHASE- The third phase of the plan, including dredging,
  transportation, and placement of material, shall be started no later than
  July 1, 1994.
  (D) FOURTH PHASE- The final phase of the plan shall include monitoring of
  project success and function and remediation if necessary.
  (d) NON-FEDERAL PARTICIPATION- Any work undertaken pursuant to this title
  shall be initiated only after non-Federal interests have entered into a
  cooperative agreement according to the provisions of section 221 of the
  Flood Control Act of 1970. The non-Federal interests shall agree to:
  (1) provide 25 percent of the cost associated with the project, including
  provision of all lands, easements, rights-of-way, and necessary relocations;
  and
  (2) pay 100 percent of the cost of operation, maintenance, replacement,
  and rehabilitation costs associated with the project.
  (e) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- The Secretary shall report to Congress at the
  end of each of the time periods referred to in subsection (c)(3) on the
  progress being made toward development and implementation of the project
  under this section.
  (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  $15,000,000 for carrying out this section for fiscal years beginning after
  September 30, 1992. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
TITLE XXXVII--SAN CARLOS APACHE TRIBE WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT, ARIZONA
SEC. 3701. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `San Carlos Apache Tribe Water Rights
  Settlement Act of 1992'.
SEC. 3702. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
  (a) SPECIFIC FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
  (1) it is the policy of the United States, in fulfillment of its trust
  responsibility to Indian tribes, to promote Indian self-determination and
  economic self-sufficiency, and to settle, wherever possible, the water
  rights claims of Indian tribes without lengthy and costly litigation;
  (2) meaningful Indian self-determination and economic self-sufficiency
  depend on the development of viable Indian reservation economies;
  (3) qualification of rights to water and development of facilities needed
  to utilize tribal water supplies effectively is essential to the development
  of viable Indian reservation economies, particularly in arid western States;
  (4) on November 9, 1871, and by actions subsequent thereto, the United
  States Government established a reservation for the San Carlos Apache
  Tribe in Arizona;
  (5) the United States, as trustee for the San Carlos Apache Tribe, obtained
  water entitlements for the Tribe pursuant to the Globe Equity Decree of
  1935; however, continued uncertainty as to the full extent of the Tribe's
  entitlement to water has severely limited the Tribe's access to water and
  financial resources necessary to develop its valuable agricultural lands
  and frustrated its efforts to reduce its dependence on Federal program
  funding and achieve meaningful self-determination and self-sufficiency;
  (6) proceedings to determine the full extent and nature of the Tribe's
  water rights are currently pending before the United States District Court
  in Arizona and in the Superior Court of the State of Arizona in and for
  Maricopa County, as part of the General Adjudication of the Gila River
  System and Source;
  (7) recognizing that final resolution of pending litigation will take
  many years and entail great expense to all parties, continue economically
  and socially damaging limits to the Tribe's access to water, prolong
  uncertainty as to the availability of water supplies and seriously impair
  the long-term economic planning and development of all parties, the Tribe
  and its neighboring non-Indian communities have sought to settle their
  dispute to water and reduce the burdens of litigation;
  (8) after lengthy negotiations, which included participation by
  representatives of the United States Government, the Tribe, and neighboring
  non-Indian communities of the Salt River and Gila River Valleys, who are all
  party to the General Adjudication of the Gila River System and Source, the
  parties are prepared to enter into an Agreement to resolve all water rights
  claims between and among themselves, to quantify the Tribe's entitlement
  to water, and to provide for the orderly development of the Tribe's lands;
  (9) pursuant to the Agreement, the neighboring non-Indian communities will
  relinquish claims to approximately fifty-eight thousand seven hundred and
  thirty-five  acre-feet of surface water to the Tribe, provide the means
  of storing water supplies of the Tribe behind Coolidge Dam on the Gila
  River in Arizona to enhance fishing, recreation, and other environmental
  benefits, and make substantial additional contributions to carry out the
  Agreement's provisions; and
  (10) to advance the goal of Federal Indian policy and to fulfill the trust
  responsibility of the United States to the Tribe, it is appropriate that
  the United States participate in the implementation of the Agreement and
  contribute funds for the rehabilitation and expansion of existing reservation
  irrigation facilities so as to enable the Tribe to utilize fully its water
  resources in developing a diverse, efficient reservation economy.
  (b) PURPOSES OF TITLE- It is the purpose of this title--
  (1) to approve, ratify, and confirm the Agreement to be entered into by
  the Tribe and its neighboring non-Indian communities,
  (2) to authorize and direct the Secretary of the Interior to execute and
  perform such Agreement, and
  (3) to authorize the actions and appropriations necessary for the United
  States to fulfill its legal and trust obligations to the Tribe as provided
  in the Agreement and this title.
SEC. 3703. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this title:
  (1) `Active conservation capacity' means that storage space, exclusive
  of bank storage, available to store water which can be released through
  existing reservoir outlet works.
  (2) `Agreement' means that agreement among the San Carlos Apache Tribe;
  the United States of America; the State of Arizona; the Salt River Project
  Agricultural Improvement and Power District; the Salt River Valley Water
  Users' Association; the Roosevelt Water Conservation District; the Arizona
  cities of Chandler, Glendale, Globe, Mesa, Safford, Scottsdale and Tempe,
  the town of Gilbert; Buckeye Water Conservation and Drainage District,
  Buckeye Irrigation Company, the Phelps Dodge Corporation and the Central
  Arizona Water Conservation District, together with all exhibits thereto,
  as the same is executed by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to
  sections 3710(c) and 3711(a)(7) of this title.
  (3) `CAP' means the Central Arizona Project, a reclamation project
  authorized under title III of the Colorado River Basin Project Act of 1968
  (43 U.S.C. 1521 et seq.).
  (4) `CAWCD' means the Central Arizona Water Conservation District, organized
  under the laws of the State of Arizona, which is the contractor under a
  contract with the United States, dated December 15, 1972, for the delivery
  of water and repayment of costs of the Central Arizona Project.
  (5) `Globe Equity Decree' means the decree dated June 29, 1935, entered in
  the United States of America v. Gila Valley Irrigation District, et al.,
  Globe Equity 59, in the District Court of the United States in and for
  the District of Arizona, and all  decrees and decisions supplemental thereto.
  (6) `Reservation' means the reservation authorized by the Treaty with
  the Apache Nation dated July 1, 1852 (10 Stat. 979), established by the
  Executive orders of November 9, 1871 and December 14, 1872, as modified by
  subsequent Executive orders and Acts of Congress including the Executive
  order of August 5, 1873.
  (7) `RWCD' means the Roosevelt Water Conservation District, an irrigation
  district organized under the laws of the State of Arizona.
  (8) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (9) `SRP' means the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power
  District, a political subdivision of the State of Arizona, and the Salt
  River Valley Water Users' Association, an Arizona Corporation.
  (10) `SCIP' means the San Carlos Irrigation Project authorized pursuant
  to the Act of June 7, 1924 (42 Stat. 475), expanded pursuant to the Act
  of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 200, 210), and administered by the Bureau of
  Indian Affairs.
  (11) `Tribe' means the San Carlos Apache Tribe, a tribe of Apache Indians
  organized under section 16 of the Indian Reorganization Act of June 18,
  1934 (48 Stat. 987; 25 U.S.C. 476), and duly recognized by the Secretary.
SEC. 3704. WATER.
  (a) REALLOCATION OF WATER- The Secretary shall reallocate, for the
  exclusive use of the Tribe, all of the water referred to in subsection
  (f)(2) of section 2 of the Act of October 19, 1984 (98 Stat. 2698), which
  is not required for delivery to the Ak-Chin Indian Reservation under that
  Act. The Secretary shall exclude, for the purposes of determining the
  allocation and repayment of costs of the CAP as provided in Article 9.3 of
  Contract No. 14-0906-09W-09245, Amendment No. 1, between the United States
  and CAWCD dated December 1, 1988, and any amendment or revision thereof,
  the costs associated with such water from CAWCD's repayment obligation
  and such costs shall be nonreimbursable.
  (b) PARTIAL SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS- Notwithstanding any other provision of
  this title, in the event the authorizations contained in section 3708(b)
  do not become effective, the water referred to in subsection 3704(a) of
  this title shall constitute partial satisfaction of the Tribe's claims
  for water in the proceeding entitled `In Re the General Adjudication of
  All Rights To Use Water in the Gila River System and Source', Maricopa
  County Superior Court Nos. W-091, W-092, W-093, and W-094 (consolidated),
  as against the parties identified in section 3703(2) of this title.
  (c) ADDITIONAL ALLOCATIONS- The Secretary shall reallocate to the Tribe
  an annual entitlement to fourteen thousand six hundred and fifty-five
  acre-feet of water from the Central Arizona Project having a CAP municipal
  and industrial priority, which the Secretary previously allocated to Phelps
  Dodge Corporation in the Notice of Final Water Allocations to Indian and
  Non-Indian Water Users and Related Decisions, dated March 24, 1983 (48
  F.R. 12446 et seq.). The Tribe shall pay the United States or, if directed
  by the Secretary, CAWCD, all operation, maintenance and replacement costs
  associated with such CAP water. Except as provided in subsection (e)(3)
  of section 3706, water service capital charges, or any other charges
  or payments for such CAP water other than operation, maintenance and
  replacement costs shall be nonreimbursable. The Secretary shall exclude,
  for the purposes of determining the allocation and repayment of costs
  of the CAP as provided in Article 9.3 of Contract No. 14-0906-09W-09245,
  Amendment No. 1, between the United States and CAWCD dated December 1, 1988,
  and any amendment or revision thereof, the costs associated with such water
  from CAWCD's repayment obligation and such costs shall be nonreimbursable.
  (d) ADDITIONAL ALLOCATIONS- The Secretary shall reallocate to the Tribe
  an annual entitlement to three thousand four hundred and eighty acre-feet
  of water from the Central Arizona Project having a CAP municipal and
  industrial priority, which the Secretary previously allocated to the city
  of Globe, Arizona, in the Notice of Final Water Allocations to Indian and
  Non-Indian Water Users and Related Decisions, dated March 24, 1983 (48
  F.R. 12466 et seq.). The Tribe shall pay the United States or, if directed
  by the Secretary, CAWCD, all operation, maintenance and replacement costs
  associated with such CAP water. Except as provided in subsection (e)(3)
  of section 3706, water service capital charges, or any other charges
  or payments for such CAP water other than operation, maintenance and
  replacement costs shall be nonreimbursable. The Secretary shall exclude,
  for the purposes of determining the allocation and repayment of costs of
  the CAP as provided in Article 9.3 of Contract No. 14-0906-09W-09245,
  Amendment No. 1, between the United States and CAWCD dated December 1,
  1988, and any amendment or revision thereof, the costs associated with such
  water from CAWCD's repayment obligation and such costs shall be reimbursable.
  (e) WATER STORAGE POOL- Notwithstanding the Act of June 7, 1924 (43
  Stat. 475), as amended by the Act of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 200, 210), in
  order to permit the Tribe to maintain permanently a pool of stored water
  for fish, wildlife, recreation and other purposes, the Secretary shall
  designate for the benefit of the Tribe such active conservation capacity
  behind Coolidge Dam on the Gila River in Arizona as is not being used
  by the Secretary to meet the obligations of SCIP for irrigation storage,
  except that any water stored by the Tribe shall be the first water to spill
  (`spill water') from Coolidge Dam. The water stored by the Tribe shall be,
  at the Tribe's designation, the water provided to the Tribe pursuant to
  subsections (a), (c) and (d) of this section, its entitlement of twelve
  thousand and seven hundred acre-feet of water under its Tribal CAP Delivery
  Contract dated December 11, 1981; the water referred to in section 3710(f),
  or any combination thereof. A pro rata share of evaporation and seepage
  losses shall be deducted daily from the Tribe's stored water balance as
  provided in the Agreement. The Tribe shall pay an equitable share of the
  operation and maintenance costs for the water stored for the benefit of
  the Tribe, subject to the Act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564, 25 U.S.C. 386
  et seq.). The water stored by the Tribe pursuant to this subsection shall
  not be subject to apportionments pursuant to Article VIII (2) of the Globe
  Equity Decree. Not later than January 31 of each year, the Secretary shall
  notify the United States District Court for the District of Arizona of the
  Tribe's stored water balance as of January 1 of that year. The Secretary
  shall notify said Court of the Tribe's stored water balance at least once
  per calendar month and at such more frequent intervals as conditions,
  in the Secretary's judgment, may require.
  (f) EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT- The Secretary shall execute the Agreement which
  establishes, as between and among the parties to Agreement, the Tribe's
  permanent right, except as provided in paragraphs 13.0, 14.0 and 15.0 of
  the Agreement, to the on-reservation diversion and use of all ground water
  beneath the Tribe's Reservation, subject to the management plan referred to
  in section 3710(d) of this title, and all surface water in all tributaries
  within the Tribe's Reservation to the mainstreams of: The Black River, the
  Salt River below its confluence with the Black River, the San Pedro River
  and the Gila River, including the right, except as provided in paragraphs
  14.0 and 15.0 of the Agreement, to fully regulate and store such water
  on the tributaries. The Tribe's rights to the mainstream of Black River,
  San Pedro River and the Gila River shall be as provided in the Agreement
  and the Globe Equity Decree. With respect to parties not subject to the
  waiver authorized by subsection 3708(b) of this title, the claims of the
  Tribe and the United States, as trustee for the Tribe, are preserved.
  (g) GILA RIVER EXCHANGES- Any exchange pursuant to this legislation of
  Gila River water for water supplied by the CAP shall not amend, alter or
  conflict with the exchanges authorized by section 304(f) of the Colorado
  River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1524(f)).
SEC. 3705. RATIFICATION AND CONFIRMATION OF CONTRACTS.
  (a) RATIFICATION OF CONTRACT- Except as provided in section 3710(i),
  the contract between the SRP and RWCD District dated October 24, 1924,
  together with all amendments thereto and any extension thereto entered into
  pursuant to the Agreement, is ratified, confirmed, and declared to be valid.
  (b) SUBCONTRACT- The Secretary shall revise the subcontract of the Roosevelt
  Water Conservation District for agricultural water service from the CAP
  to include an addendum substantially in the form of exhibit `A' to the
  Agreement and to execute the subcontract as revised. Notwithstanding
  any other provision of law, the Secretary shall approve the conversions
  of agricultural water to municipal and industrial uses authorized by
  the addendum at such time or times as the conditions authorizing such
  conversions, as set forth in the addendum, are found to exist.
  (c) RESTRICTIONS- The lands within RWCD and SRP shall be free from the
  ownership and full cost pricing limitations of Federal reclamation law
  and from all full cost pricing provisions of Federal law.
  (d) DISCLAIMER- No person, entity or lands shall become subject to the
  provisions of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (43 U.S.C. 390aa et
  seq.) or any full cost pricing provision of Federal law by virtue of
  their participation in the settlement or their execution and performance
  of the Agreement, or the use, storage or delivery of CAP water pursuant
  to a lease, sublease or exchange of water to which the Tribe is entitled
  under this title.
  (e) FULL COST PRICING PROVISIONS- The lands within the Tribe's Reservation
  shall be free from all full cost pricing provisions of Federal law.
  (f) CERTAIN EXTENSIONS AUTHORIZED- Notwithstanding any other provision
  of law or any other provision of this title, the Secretary, subject
  to tribal approval, is authorized and directed to: extend the term of
  that right-of-way permit granted to Phelps Dodge Corporation on March
  8, 1950, and all amendments thereto, for the construction, operation
  and maintenance of an electrical transmission line and existing road
  for access to those facilities over the lands of the Tribe; extend the
  term of that right-of-way permit numbered 2000089 granted on July 25,
  1944, to Phelps Dodge Corporation, and all amendments thereto, for the
  construction, use, operation and maintenance of a water plant, pipeline,
  canal, water flowage easement through Willow Creek and existing road for
  access to those facilities over the lands of the Tribe; and grant a water
  flowage easement through the portions of Eagle Creek flowing through the
  Tribe's Reservation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, each such
  right-of-way and flowage easement shall be for a term expiring on March
  8, 2090, and shall be subject to the right of Phelps Dodge to renew the
  rights-of-way and flowage easements for an additional term of up to one
  hundred years, subject to payment of rental at a rate based upon fair
  market retail value.
SEC. 3706. WATER DELIVERY CONTRACT AMENDMENTS; WATER LEASE, WATER WITHDRAWAL.
  (a) AMENDMENT OF CONTRACT- The Secretary shall amend the CAP water delivery
  contract between the United States and the Ak-Chin Indian Community dated
  December 11, 1980, and the contract between the United States and the
  Ak-Chin Indian Community dated October 2, 1985, as is necessary to satisfy
  the requirements of section 3704(a) of this title.
  (b) CONTRACT AMENDMENT- The Secretary shall amend the CAP water delivery
  contract between the United States and the Tribe dated December 11, 1980
  (hereinafter referred to as the `Tribal CAP Delivery Contract'), as follows:
  (1) To include the obligation by the United States to deliver water to
  the Tribe upon the same terms and conditions set forth in the Tribal
  CAP Delivery Contract as follows: water from those sources described
  in subsections (a), (c), and (d) of section 3704 of this title; except
  that the water reallocated pursuant to such subsections shall retain the
  priority such water had prior to its reallocation. The cost to the United
  States to meet the Secretary's obligation to design and construct new
  facilities to deliver CAP water shall not exceed the cost of construction
  of the delivery and distribution system for the twelve thousand and seven
  hundred acre-feet of CAP water originally allocated to the Tribe.
  (2) To extend the term of such contract to December 31, 2100, and to
  provide for its subsequent renewal upon the same terms and conditions as
  the Tribal CAP Delivery Contract, as amended.
  (3) To authorize the Tribe to lease or to enter into an option or options
  to lease the water to which the Tribe is entitled under the Tribal CAP
  Delivery Contract, as amended, within Maricopa, Pinal and Pima Counties
  for terms not exceeding one hundred years and to renew such leases.
  (4) To authorize the Tribe to lease water to which the Tribe is entitled
  under the Tribal CAP Delivery Contract, as amended, to the city of Scottsdale
  under the terms and conditions of the Water Lease set forth in Exhibit
  `B' to the Agreement.
  (5) To authorize the Tribe to lease water to which the Tribe is entitled
  under the Tribal CAP Delivery Contract, as amended, including, but not
  limited to, the cities of Chandler, Glendale, Goodyear, Mesa, Peoria,
  Phoenix, Scottsdale, Tempe and the town of Gilbert.
  (c) APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  the amendments to the Tribal CAP Delivery Contract set forth in Exhibit
  `C' to the Agreement are hereby authorized, approved and confirmed.
  (d) CHARGES NOT TO BE IMPOSED- The United States shall not impose upon the
  Tribe the operation, maintenance and replacement charges described and
  set forth in section 6 of the Tribal CAP Delivery Contract or any other
  charge with respect to CAP water delivered or required to be delivered to
  the lessee or lessees of the options to lease or leases herein authorized.
  (e) WATER LEASE- Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection,
  any Water Lease entered into by the Tribe as authorized by section 3706
  shall specifically provide that--
  (1) the lessee shall pay all operation, maintenance and replacement costs of
  such water to the United States, or if directed by the Secretary, to CAWCD;
  (2) except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, the lessee
  shall not be obligated to pay water service capital charges or municipal
  and industrial subcontract charges or any other charges or payment for such
  CAP water other than the operation, maintenance and replacement costs and
  lease payments; and
  (3) with respect to the water reallocated to the Tribe pursuant to
  subsections (c) and (d) of section 3704, the Tribe or lessee shall pay
  any water service capital charges or municipal and industrial subcontract
  charges for any water use or lease from the effective date of this title
  through September 30, 1995.
  (f) ALLOCATION AND REPAYMENT OF COSTS- For the purpose of determining
  allocation and repayment of costs of the CAP as provided in Article 9.3 of
  Contract Numbered 14-0906-09W-09245, Amendment No. 1, between the United
  States of America and CAWCD dated December 1, 1988, and any amendment or
  revision  thereof, the costs associated with the delivery of water to which
  the Tribe is entitled under the Tribal Delivery Contract, as amended, to
  the lessee or lessees of the options to lease or leases herein authorized
  shall be nonreimbursable, and such costs shall be excluded from CAWCD's
  repayment obligation.
  (g) AGREEMENTS- The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Tribe,
  enter into agreements necessary to permit the Tribe to exchange, within
  the State of Arizona, all or part of the water available to it under its
  Tribal CAP Delivery Contract, as amended.
  (h) RATIFICATION- As among the parties to the Agreement, the right of the
  city of Globe to withdraw and use water from under the Cutter subarea under
  the Agreement, as limited and conditioned thereunder, is hereby ratified
  and confirmed.
  (i) USE OF WATER- As among the parties to the Agreement, the right of the
  city of Safford to withdraw and use water from the Bonita Creek watershed
  as provided in the Agreement, as limited and conditioned thereunder,
  is hereby ratified and confirmed.
  (j) WITHDRAWAL AND USE OF WATER- As between the Tribe and Phelps Dodge,
  the right of Phelps Dodge to divert, withdraw and use water as provided in
  the Agreement, as limited and conditioned thereunder, is hereby ratified
  and confirmed.
  (k) PROHIBITIONS- Except as authorized by this section, no water made
  available to the Tribe pursuant to the Agreement, the Globe Equity Decree,
  or this title may be sold, leased, transferred or in any way used off the
  Tribe's Reservation.
SEC. 3707. CONSTRUCTION AND REHABILITATION; TRUST FUND.
  (a) DUTIES-
  (1) The Secretary is directed, pursuant to the existing authority of the
  Colorado River Basin Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1501 et. seq.), to design and
  construct new facilities for the delivery of 12,700 acre-feet of CAP water
  originally allocated to the Tribe to tribal reservation lands at a cost
  which shall not exceed the cost for such design and construction which
  would have been incurred by the Secretary in the absence of the Agreement
  and this title;
  (2) The Secretary of Commerce is directed to amend the contract between the
  United States Economic Development Administration and the Tribe relating to
  the construction of Elgo Dam on the San Carlos Apache Indian Reservation,
  Project No. 07-0981-09000210, to provide that all remaining repayment
  obligations owing to the United States on the date of the enactment of
  this title are discharged.
  (b) FUND- There is established in the Treasury of the United States a
  fund to be known as the `San Carlos Apache Tribe Development Trust Fund'
  (hereinafter called the `Fund') for the exclusive use and benefit of the
  Tribe. The Secretary shall deposit into the Fund the funds authorized
  to be appropriated in subsection (c) and the $3,000,000 provided by the
  State of Arizona pursuant to the Agreement. There shall be deposited into
  the Fund any monies paid to the Tribe or to the Secretary on behalf of the
  Tribe from leases or options to lease water authorized by section 3706 of
  this title. Such sums shall be invested in interest-bearing deposits and
  securities in accordance with the Act of June 24, 1938 (25 U.S.C. 162(a)).
  (c) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated $38,400,000
  in fiscal year 1994, together with interest accruing thereon beginning
  one year from the date of enactment of this title at rates determined
  by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into consideration the average
  market yield on outstanding Federal obligations of comparable maturity,
  to carry out the provisions of subsection (b).
  (d) USE OF FUND- When the authorizations contained in section 3708(b)
  of this title are effective, the principal of the Fund and any interest
  or income accruing thereon may be used by the Tribe to put to beneficial
  use the Tribe's water entitlement, to defray the cost to the Tribe of
  CAP operation, maintenance and replacement charges as  appropriate, and
  for other economic and community development purposes. The income from
  the Fund shall be distributed by the Secretary to the San Carlos Apache
  Tribe only upon presentation to the Secretary of a certified copy of a
  duly enacted Resolution of the Tribal Council requesting distribution and a
  written budget approved by the Tribal Council. Such income may thereafter be
  expended only in accordance with such budget. Income not distributed shall
  be added to principal. The principal from the Fund may be distributed by
  the Secretary to the San Carlos Apache Tribe only upon presentation to the
  Secretary of a certified copy of a duly enacted Resolution of the Tribal
  Council requesting distribution and a written budget approved by the Tribal
  Council and the Secretary. Such principal may thereafter be expended only
  in accordance with such budget: Provided, however, That the principal may
  only be utilized for long-term economic development projects. In approving
  a budget for the distribution of income or principal, the Secretary shall,
  in accordance with regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection (e)
  of this section, be assured that methods exist and will be employed to
  ensure that use of the funds shall be in accordance with the approved budget.
  (e) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall, no later than thirty days after
  the date the authorizations contained in section 3708(b) are effective,
  promulgate regulations necessary to carry out the purposes of subsection (d).
  (f) DISCLAIMER- The United States shall not be liable for any claim or
  cause of action arising from the Tribe's use or expenditure of moneys
  distributed from the Fund.
SEC. 3708. SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS.
  (a) FULL SATISFACTION OF CLAIMS- Except as provided in subsection (e)
  of this section, the benefits realized by the Tribe and its members under
  this title shall constitute full and complete satisfaction of all members'
  claims for water rights or injuries to water rights under Federal, State,
  and other laws (including claims for water rights in ground water, surface
  water, and effluent) from time immemorial to the effective date of this
  title. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this title shall be deemed
  to recognize or establish any right of a member of the Tribe to water on
  the Tribe's Reservation.
  (b) RELEASE- The Tribe, on behalf of itself and its members, and the
  Secretary on behalf of the United States, are authorized, as part of
  the performance of the obligations under the Agreement, to execute a
  waiver and release, except as provided in the Agreement, of all claims
  of water rights or injuries to water rights (including water rights in
  ground water, surface water and effluent), from time immemorial to the
  effective date of this title, and any and all future claims of water rights
  (including water rights in ground water, surface water and effluent),
  from and after the effective date of this title, which the Tribe and its
  members may have, against the United States, the State of Arizona or any
  agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other person, corporation,
  or municipal corporation, arising under the laws of the United States,
  the State of Arizona or otherwise.
  (c) ADDITIONAL RELEASES- Except as provided in the Agreement, the United
  States shall not assert any claim against the State of Arizona or any
  political subdivision thereof, or any person, corporation or municipal
  corporation, arising under the laws of the United States, the State of
  Arizona or otherwise in its own right or on behalf of the Tribe based upon--
  (1) water rights or injuries to water rights (including water rights in
  ground water, surface water and effluent) of the Tribe and its members, or
  (2) water rights or injuries to water rights (including water rights in
  ground water, surface water and effluent) held by the United States on
  behalf of the Tribe and its members.
  (d) SAVINGS PROVISION- In the event the authorizations contained in
  subsection (b) of this section do not become  effective pursuant to section
  3711(a), the Tribe and the United States shall retain the right to assert
  past and future water rights claims as to all Reservation lands.
  (e) DISCLAIMER- Nothing in this title shall affect the water right or
  claims related to the San Carlos Apache Allotments outside the exterior
  boundaries of the Reservation.
  (f) CLAIMS- (1) The United States District Court for the District of Arizona
  and the United States Claims Court are authorized to hear and decide any
  claim brought by the Central Arizona Water Conservation District or other
  contractors of CAP water. Any such claim shall be filed within two years
  of the date of enactment of this Act, and shall be heard by the court on an
  expedited basis. If such a claim is filed and the court grants judgment for
  the plaintiff(s), the court shall award such relief as it deems proper, and
  shall award costs and attorneys' fees to the plaintiff(s). Any judgment of
  the court shall be subject to appeal on the same basis that other judgments
  of that court are subject to review under existing law.
  (2) For purposes of this subsection, `claim' means a claim that the
  reallocation of water to the Tribe pursuant to section 3704(a) of this Act
  has unlawfully deprived the Central Arizona Water Conservation District
  or other contractors of CAP water of legal rights to such water.
SEC. 3709. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE.
  (a) NO MAJOR FEDERAL ACTION- Execution of the settlement agreement by the
  Secretary as provided for in section 3710(c) shall not constitute major
  Federal action under the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et
  seq.). The Secretary shall carry out all necessary environmental compliance
  during the implementation phase of this settlement.
  (b) AUTHORIZATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated such sums
  as may be necessary to carry out all necessary environmental compliance
  associated with the settlement under this title, including mitigation
  measures adopted by the Secretary.
  (c) LEAD AGENCY- With respect to such settlement, the Bureau of Reclamation
  shall be designated as the lead agency in regard to environmental compliance,
  and shall coordinate and cooperate with the other affected Federal agencies
  as required under applicable Federal environmental laws.
  (d) ENVIRONMENTAL ACTS- The Secretary shall comply with all aspects of
  the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and the
  Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), and other applicable
  Federal environmental Acts and regulations in proceeding through the
  implementation phase of such settlement.
SEC. 3710. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
  (a) WAIVER OF SOVEREIGN IMMUNITY- In the event any party to the Agreement
  files a lawsuit in any United States district court relating only and
  directly to the interpretation or enforcement of this title or the Agreement,
  naming the United States of America or the Tribe as parties, authorization
  is hereby granted to joining the United States of America or the Tribe,
  or both, in any such litigation, and any claim by the United States of
  America or the Tribe to sovereign immunity from such suit is hereby waived.
  (b) CERTAIN CLAIMS PROHIBITED- The United States of America shall make
  no claims for reimbursement of costs arising out of the implementation of
  this title or the Agreement against any lands within the San Carlos Apache
  Indian Reservation, and no assessment shall be made with regard to such
  costs against such lands.
   (c) APPROVAL OF AGREEMENT- Except to the extent that the Agreement
   conflicts with the provisions of this title, such Agreement is hereby
   approved, ratified and confirmed. The Secretary shall execute and perform
   such Agreement as approved, ratified and confirmed. The Secretary is
   authorized to execute any amendments to the Agreement and perform any
   action required by any amendments to the Agreement which may be mutually
   agreed upon by the parties.
  (d) GROUND WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN- The Secretary shall establish a ground
  water management plan for the San Carlos Apache Reservation which, except
  as  is necessary to be consistent with the provisions of this title,
  will have the same effect as a management plan developed under Arizona law.
  (e) AMENDMENT TO THE ACT OF APRIL 4, 1938- The Act of April 4, 1938 (52
  Stat. 193; 25 U.S.C. 390), is amended by inserting immediately before the
  period at the end thereof a colon and the following: `Provided further,
  That concessions for recreation and fish and wildlife purposes on San
  Carlos Lake may be granted only by the governing body of the San Carlos
  Apache Tribe upon such conditions and subject to such limitations as may
  be set forth in the constitution and bylaws of such Tribe'.
  (f) SAN CARLOS RESERVOIR- There is hereby transferred to the Tribe the
  Secretary's entitlement of 30,000 acre-feet of water, less any evaporation
  and seepage losses from the date of acquisition by the Secretary to the date
  of transfer, which the Secretary may have acquired through substituting
  CAP water for water to which the Gila River Indian Community and the San
  Carlos Irrigation  and Drainage District had a right to be released from
  San Carlos Reservoir and delivered to them in 1990.
  (g) LIMITATION- No part of the Fund established by section 3707(b) of this
  title, including principal and income, or income from options to lease
  water or water leases authorized by section 3706, may be used to make per
  capita payments to members of the Tribe.
  (h) DISCLAIMER- Nothing in this title shall be construed to repeal, modify,
  amend, change or affect the Secretary's obligations to the Ak-Chin Indian
  Community pursuant to the Act of October 19, 1984 (98 Stat. 2698).
  (i) WATER RIGHTS- Nothing in this title shall be construed to quantify or
  otherwise affect the water rights, claims or entitlements to water of any
  Arizona tribe, band or community, other than the San Carlos Apache Tribe.
  (j) PLANET RANCH- The Secretary is authorized and directed to acquire,
  with the consent of and upon terms mutually acceptable to the city of
  Scottsdale (`city') and the Secretary, all of the city's right, title and
  interest in Planet Ranch located on the Bill Williams River in Arizona,
  including all water rights appurtenant to that property, and the city's
  January 1988 application filed with the Arizona Department of Water
  Resources to appropriate water from the Bill Williams River through a
  land exchange based on fair market value. If an exchange is made with land
  purchased by the Bureau of Reclamation for the construction and operation
  of the Central Arizona Project, then, upon commencement of repayment
  by CAWCD of the reimbursable costs of the Central Arizona Project,
  the fair market value of those lands so exchanged shall be credited in
  full against the annual payments due from CAWCD under Article 9.4(a) of
  Contract No. 14-0906-09W-09245, Amendment No. 1, between the United States
  and CAWCD dated December 1, 1988, and any amendment or revision thereof,
  until exhausted: Provided, however, That the authorized appropriation
  ceiling of the Central Arizona Project shall not be affected in any manner
  by the provisions of this subsection.
  (k) REPEAL- Section 304(c)(3) of the Colorado River Basin Project Act (43
  U.S.C. 1524(c)(3)) is hereby repealed. This subsection does not authorize
  transportation of water pumped within the exterior boundary of a Federal
  reclamation project established prior to September 30, 1968, pursuant to
  the Act of June 17, 1902 (32 Stat. 388; 43 U.S.C. 391), as amended and
  supplemented, across project boundaries.
  (l) WATER RIGHTS- Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the
  water rights or the water rights claims of any Federal agency other than
  the Bureau of Indian Affairs on behalf of the San Carlos Apache Tribe,
  nor shall anything in this title be construed to prohibit the United States
  from confirming in the Agreement, except on behalf of Indian tribes other
  than the San Carlos Apache Tribe, the Gila River and Little Colorado River
  watershed water rights of other parties to the Agreement by making express
  provisions for the same in the Agreement.
SEC. 3711. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  (a) EFFECTIVE DATE OF AUTHORIZATION- The authorization contained in section
  3708(b) of this title shall become effective as of the date the Secretary
  causes to be published in the Federal Register a statement of findings that--
  (1) the Secretary has fulfilled the requirements of sections 3704 and 3706;
  (2) the Roosevelt Water Conservation District subcontract for agricultural
  water service from CAP has been revised and executed as provided in
  section 3705(b);
  (3) the funds authorized by section 3707(c) have been appropriated and
  deposited into the Fund;
  (4) the contract referred to in section 3707(a)(2) has been amended;
  (5) the State of Arizona has appropriated and deposited into the Fund
  $3,000,000 as required by the Agreement;
  (6) the stipulations attached to the Agreement as Exhibits `D' and `E'
  have been approved; and
  (7) the Agreement has been modified, to the extent it is in conflict with
  this title, and has been executed by the Secretary.
  (b) CONDITIONS- (1) If the actions described in paragraphs (1), (2),
  (3), (4), (5), (6), and (7) of subsection (a) of this section have not
  occurred by December 31, 1994, subsections (c) and (d) of section 3704,
  subsections (a) and (b) of section 3705, section 3706, subsections (a)(2),
  (c), (d), and (f) of section 3707, subsections (b) and (c) of section 3708,
  and subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (j), and (l) of section
  3710 of this title, together with any contracts entered into pursuant to
  any such section or subsection, shall not be effective on and after the
  date of enactment of this title, and any funds appropriated pursuant to
  section 3707(c), and remaining unobligated and unexpended on the date of
  the enactment of this title, shall immediately revert to the Treasury,
  as general revenues, and any funds appropriated by the State of Arizona
  pursuant to the Agreement, and remaining unobligated and unexpended on
  the date of the enactment of this title, shall immediately revert to the
  State of Arizona.
  (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection,
  if the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of section 3705 of this
  title have been otherwise accomplished pursuant to provisions of the Act
  of October 20, 1988, the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection
  shall not be construed as affecting such subsections.
TITLE XXXVIII--SAN FRANCISCO WATER RECLAMATION AND REUSE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to undertake a
  demonstration project in the City and County of San Francisco to examine
  the feasibility and effectiveness of using advanced ecologically engineered
  technology for water reclamation and reuse in accordance with the title 22
  standards of the California Water Code. `Advanced Ecologically Engineered
  Technology' refers to a greenhouse-based, ecologically engineered technology
  which employs highly populated pond and marsh ecosystems to produce water for
  reclamation and reuse. One-half of the costs associated with implementation
  of this title shall be borne by the United States as a nonreimbursable cost;
  the other one-half shall be borne by the State of California and the City
  and County of San Francisco.
TITLE XXXIX--SIPHON REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT
  (a) Congress finds that the prestressed concrete pipe siphons installed in
  the Hayden-Rhodes Aqueduct portion of the Central Arizona Project designed
  and constructed by the Secretary pursuant to the Colorado River Basin
  Project Act (43 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) have been determined to be defective,
  inadequate and unsuitable for aquaduct purposes and must be replaced or
  substantial repairs completed for the transfer of the operation of the
  Project to its local sponsors.
  (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law or contract, 50 percent of
  the costs incurred in the repair, modification or replacement, together
  with associated costs, of the Hayden-Rhodes Aqueduct siphons at Salt River,
  New River, Hassayampa River, Jackrabbit Wash, Centennial Wash and Aqua
  Fria River, all features of the Central Arizona Project, shall be borne by
  the United States and shall be nonreimbursable and nonreturnable and the
  remaining costs shall be allocated to the authorized purposes of the project.
TITLE XL--NATIONAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION ACT AMENDMENTS
SEC. 4001. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `National Historic Preservation Act Amendments
  of 1992'.
SEC. 4002. POLICY.
  Section 2 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470-1)
  is amended as follows--
  (1) In paragraph (2) insert `and in the administration of the national
  preservation program in partnership with States, Indian tribes, Native
  Hawaiians, and local governments' after `community of nations'.
  (2) In paragraph (6) insert `, Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian
  organizations' after `local governments'.
SEC. 4003. REVIEW OF THREATS TO PROPERTIES.
  Section 101(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(a))
  is amended by adding the following new paragraph at the end thereof:
  `(8) The Secretary shall, at least once every 4 years, in consultation
  with the Council and with State Historic Preservation Officers, review
  significant threats to properties included in, or eligible for inclusion
  on, the National Register, in order to--
  `(A) determine the kinds of properties that may be threatened;
  `(B) ascertain the causes of the threats; and
  `(C) develop and submit to the President and Congress recommendations for
  appropriate action.'.
SEC. 4004. STATE HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS.
  Section 101(b) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(b))
  is amended as follows:
  (1) Amend paragraph (2) to read as follows:
  `(2)(A) Periodically, but not less than every 4 years after the approval of
  any State program under this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with
  the Council on the appropriate provisions of this Act, and in cooperation
  with the State Historic Preservation Officer, shall evaluate the program
  to determine whether it is consistent with this Act.
  `(B) If, at any time, the Secretary determines that a major aspect of
  a State program is not consistent with this Act, the Secretary shall
  disapprove the program and suspend in whole or in part any contracts or
  cooperative agreements with the State and the State Historic Preservation
  Officer under this Act, until the program is consistent with this Act,
  unless the Secretary determines that the program will be made consistent
  with this Act within a reasonable period of time.
  `(C) The Secretary, in consultation with State Historic Preservation
  Officers, shall establish oversight methods to ensure State program
  consistency and quality without imposing undue review burdens on State
  Historic Preservation Officers.
  `(D) At the discretion of the Secretary, a State system of fiscal audit
  and management may be substituted for comparable Federal systems so long
  as the State system--
  `(i) establishes and maintains substantially similar accountability
  standards; and
  `(ii) provides for independent professional peer review.
The Secretary may also conduct periodic fiscal audits of State programs
approved under this section as needed and shall ensure that such programs
meet applicable accountability standards.'.
  (2) Amend paragraph (3) as follows:
  (A) In subparagraph (G), strike `relating to the Federal and State Historic
  Preservation Programs; and' and insert `in historic preservation;'.
  (B) In subparagraph (H), strike the period at the end thereof and insert
  a semicolon.
  (C) Add at the end thereof the following new subparagraphs--
  `(I) consult with appropriate Federal agencies in accordance with this
  Act on--
  `(i) Federal undertakings that may affect historic properties; and
  `(ii) the content and sufficiency of any plans developed to protect,
  manage, or reduce or mitigate harm to such properties; and
  `(J) advise and assist in the evaluation of proposals for rehabilitation
  projects that may qualify for Federal assistance.'.
  (3) Amend paragraph (5) by striking `1980' and inserting `1992'.
  (4) Add at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
  `(6)(A) Subject to subparagraphs (C) and (D), the Secretary may enter into
  contracts or cooperative agreements with a State Historic Preservation
  Officer for any State authorizing such Officer to assist the Secretary
  in carrying out one or more of the following responsibilities within
  that State--
  `(i)  Identification and preservation of historic properties.
  `(ii) Determination of the eligibility of properties for listing on the
  National Register.
  `(iii) Preparation of nominations for inclusion on the National Register.
  `(iv) Maintenance of historical and archaeological data bases.
  `(v) Evaluation of eligibility for Federal preservation incentives.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to provide that any State Historic
Preservation Officer or any other person other than the Secretary shall have
the authority to maintain the National Register for properties in any State.
  `(B) The Secretary may enter into a contract or cooperative agreement
  under subparagraph (A) only if--
  `(i) the State Historic Preservation Officer has requested the additional
  responsibility;
  `(ii) the Secretary has approved the State historic preservation program
  pursuant to section 101(b) (1) and (2);
  `(iii) the State Historic Preservation Officer agrees to carry out the
  additional responsibility in a timely and efficient manner acceptable
  to the Secretary and the Secretary determines that such Officer is fully
  capable of carrying out such responsibility in such manner;
  `(iv) the State Historic Preservation Officer agrees to permit the Secretary
  to review and revise, as appropriate in the discretion of the Secretary,
  decisions made by the Officer pursuant to such contract or cooperative
  agreement; and
  `(v) the Secretary and the State Historic Preservation Officer agree on
  the terms of additional financial assistance to the State, if there is to
  be any, for the costs of carrying out such responsibility.
  `(C) For each significant program area under the Secretary's authority, the
  Secretary shall establish specific conditions and criteria essential for
  the assumption by State Historic Preservation Officers of the Secretary's
  duties in each such program.
  `(D) Nothing in this subsection shall have the effect of diminishing the
  preservation programs and activities of the National Park Service.'.
SEC. 4005. CERTIFICATION OF LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
  Section 101(c) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a(c))
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(4) For the purposes of this section the term--
  `(A) `designation' means the identification and registration of properties
  for protection that meet criteria established by the State or the locality
  for significant historic and prehistoric resources within the jurisdiction
  of a local government; and
  `(B) `protection' means a local review process under State or local law
  for proposed demolition of, changes to, or other action that may affect
  historic properties designated pursuant to subsection (c).'.
SEC. 4006. TRIBAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS.
  (a) REVISION OF EXISTING LAW- Section 101 of the National Historic
  Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a) is amended as follows--
  (1) Redesignate subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h) as subsections (e),
  (f), (g), (h), and (i), respectively.
  (2) Insert after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
  `(d)(1)(A) The Secretary shall establish a program and promulgate
  regulations to assist Indian tribes in preserving their particular historic
  properties. The  Secretary shall foster communication and cooperation
  between Indian tribes and State Historic Preservation Officers in the
  administration of the national historic preservation program to ensure
  that all types of historic properties and all public interests in such
  properties are given due consideration, and to encourage coordination among
  Indian tribes, State Historic Preservation Officers, and Federal agencies
  in historic preservation planning and in the identification, evaluation,
  protection, and interpretation of historic properties.
  `(B) The program under subparagraph (A) shall be developed in such a
  manner as to ensure that tribal values are taken into account to the extent
  feasible. The Secretary may waive or modify requirements of this section to
  conform to the cultural setting of tribal heritage preservation goals and
  objectives. The tribal programs implemented by specific tribal organizations
  may vary in scope, as determined by each tribe's chief governing authority.
  `(C) The Secretary shall consult with Indian tribes, other Federal agencies,
  State Historic Preservation Officers, and other interested parties and
  initiate the program under subparagraph (A) by not later than October
  1, 1994.
  `(2) A tribe  may assume all or any part of the functions of a State Historic
  Preservation Officer in accordance with subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3),
  with respect to tribal lands, as such responsibilities may be modified
  for tribal programs through regulations issued by the Secretary, if--
  `(A) the tribe's chief governing authority so requests;
  `(B) the tribe designates a tribal preservation official to administer the
  tribal historic preservation program, through appointment by the tribe's
  chief governing authority or as a tribal ordinance may otherwise provide;
  `(C) the tribal preservation official provides the Secretary with a plan
  describing how the functions the tribal preservation official proposes to
  assume will be carried out;
  `(D) the Secretary determines, after consulting with the tribe, the
  appropriate State Historic Preservation Officer, the Council (if the tribe
  proposes to assume the functions of the State Historic Preservation Officer
  with respect to review of undertakings under section 106), and other tribes,
  if any, whose tribal or aboriginal lands may be affected by conduct of
  the tribal preservation program--
  `(i) that the tribal preservation program is fully capable of carrying
  out the functions specified in the plan provided under subparagraph (C);
  `(ii) that the plan defines the remaining responsibilities of the Secretary
  and the State Historic Preservation Officer;
  `(iii) that the plan provides, with respect to properties neither owned by
  a member of the tribe nor held in trust by the Secretary for the benefit
  of the tribe, at the request of the owner thereof, the State Historic
  Preservation Officer, in addition to the tribal preservation official,
  may exercise the historic preservation responsibilities in accordance with
  subsections (b)(2) and (b)(3); and
  `(E) based on satisfaction of the conditions stated in subparagraphs (A),
  (B), (C), and (D), the Secretary approves the plan.
  `(3) In consultation with interested Indian tribes, other Native American
  organizations and affected State Historic Preservation Officers, the
  Secretary shall establish and implement procedures for carrying out section
  103(a) with respect to tribal programs that assume responsibilities under
  paragraph (2).
  `(4) At the request of a tribe whose preservation program has been
  approved to assume functions and responsibilities pursuant to paragraph
  (2), the Secretary shall enter into contracts or cooperative agreements
  with such tribe permitting the assumption by the tribe of any part of the
  responsibilities referred to in subsection (b)(6) on tribal land, if--
 `(A) the Secretary and the tribe agree on additional financial assistance,
 if any, to the tribe for the costs of carrying out such authorities;
 `(B) the Secretary finds that the tribal historic preservation program has
 been demonstrated to be sufficient to carry out the contract or cooperative
 agreement and this Act; and
 `(C) the contract or cooperative agreement specifies the continuing
 responsibilities of the Secretary or of the appropriate State Historic
 Preservation Officers and provides for appropriate participation by--
 `(i) the tribe's traditional cultural authorities;
 `(ii) representatives of other tribes whose traditional lands are under
 the jurisdiction of the tribe assuming responsibilities; and
 `(iii) the interested public.
  `(5) The Council may enter into an agreement with an Indian tribe to
  permit undertakings on tribal land to be reviewed under tribal historic
  preservation regulations in place of review under regulations promulgated
  by the Council to govern compliance with section 106, if the Council, after
  consultation with the tribe and appropriate State Historic Preservation
  Officers, determines that the tribal preservation regulations will afford
  historic properties consideration equivalent to those afforded by the
  Council's regulations.
  `(6)(A) Properties of traditional religious and cultural importance to
  an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may be determined to be
  eligible for inclusion on the National Register.
  `(B) In carrying out its responsibilities under section 106, a Federal
  agency shall consult with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization
  that attaches religious and cultural significance to properties described
  in subparagraph (A).
  `(C) In carrying out his or her responsibilities under subsection (b)(3),
  the State Historic Preservation Officer for the State of Hawaii shall--
 `(i) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in assessing the cultural
 significance of any property in determining whether to nominate such property
 to the National Register;
 `(ii) consult with Native Hawaiian organizations in developing the cultural
 component of a preservation program or plan for such property; and
 `(iii) enter into a memorandum of understanding or agreement with Native
 Hawaiian organizations for the assessment of the cultural significance of a
 property in determining whether to nominate such property to the National
 Register and to carry out the cultural component of such preservation
 program or plan.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 110(c) of the National Historic
  Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h-2(c)) is amended by striking `101(g)'
  and inserting `101(h)'.
SEC. 4007. MATCHING GRANTS.
  Section 101(e) of the National Historic Preservation Act, as redesignated
  by section 4006(a)(1) of this title, is amended as follows--
 (1) Amend paragraph (1) to read as follows:
  `(1) The Secretary shall administer a program of matching grants to the
  States for the purposes of carrying out this Act.'.
 (2) Add the following at the end thereof:
  `(4) Grants may be made under this subsection for the preservation,
  stabilization, restoration, or rehabilitation of religious properties
  listed in the National Register of Historic Places, provided that the
  purpose of the grant is secular, does not promote religion, and seeks
  to protect those qualities that are historically significant. Nothing in
  this paragraph shall be construed to authorize the use of any funds made
  available under this section for the acquisition of any property referred
  to in the preceding sentence.'.
  `(5) The Secretary shall administer a program of direct grants to
  Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations for the purpose of
  carrying out this Act as it pertains to Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian
  organizations. Matching fund requirements may be modified. Federal funds
  available to a tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may be used as matching
  funds for the purposes of the tribe's or organization's conducting its
  responsibilities pursuant to this section.
  `(6)(A) As part of the program of matching grant assistance from the
  Historic Preservation Fund to States, the Secretary shall administer
  a program of direct grants to the Federated States of Micronesia, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands, and upon termination of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust
  Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of Palau (referred to as
  the Micronesian States) in furtherance of the Compact of Free Association
  between the United States and the Federated States of Micronesia and the
  Marshall Islands, approved by the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985
  (48 U.S.C. 1681 note), the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territory
  of the Pacific Islands, and the Compact of Free Association between the
  United States and Palau, approved by the Joint Resolution entitled `Joint
  Resolution to approve the `Compact of Free Association' between the United
  States and Government of Palau, and for other purposes' (48 U.S.C. 1681
  note). The goal of the program shall be to establish historic and cultural
  preservation programs that meet the unique needs of each Micronesian State
  so that at the termination of the compacts the programs shall be firmly
  established. The Secretary may waive or modify the requirements of this
  section to conform to the cultural setting of those nations.
  `(B) The amounts to be made available to the Micronesian States shall
  be allocated by the Secretary on the basis of needs as determined by the
  Secretary. Matching funds may be waived or modified.'.
SEC. 4008. EDUCATION AND TRAINING.
  Section 101 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470a),
  as amended by section 4005 of this Act, is further amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(j)(1) The Secretary shall, in consultation with the Council and other
  appropriate Federal, tribal, Native Hawaiian, and non-Federal organizations,
  develop and implement a comprehensive preservation education and training
  program.
  `(2) The education and training program described in paragraph (1)
  shall include--
  `(A) new standards and increased preservation training opportunities for
  Federal workers involved in preservation-related functions;
  `(B) increased preservation training opportunities for other Federal,
  State, tribal and local government workers, and students;
  `(C) technical or financial assistance, or both, to historically black
  colleges and universities, to tribal colleges, and to colleges with a
  high enrollment of Native Americans or Native Hawaiians, to establish
  preservation training and degree programs;
  `(D) coordination of the following activities, where appropriate, with
  the National Center for Preservation Technology and Training--
  `(i) distribution of information on preservation technologies;
  `(ii) provision of training and skill development in trades, crafts,
  and disciplines related to historic preservation in Federal training and
  development programs; and
  `(iii) support for research, analysis, conservation, curation,
  interpretation, and display related to preservation.'.
SEC. 4009. REQUIREMENTS FOR AWARDING OF GRANTS.
  Section 102 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470b)
  is amended as follows:
  (1) Amend paragraph (3) of subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(3) for more than 60 percent of the aggregate costs of carrying out
  projects and programs under the administrative control of the State
  Historic Preservation Officer as specified in section 101(b)(3) in any
  one fiscal year.'.
  (2) In subsection (b) strike `, in which case a grant to the National
  Trust may include funds for the maintenance, repair, and administration
  of the property in a manner satisfactory for the Secretary'.
  (3) Add at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(d) The Secretary shall make funding available to individual States and
  the National Trust for Historic Preservation as soon as practicable after
  execution of a grant agreement. For purposes of administration, grants to
  individual States and the National Trust each shall be considered to be
  one grant and shall be administered by the National Park Service as such.
  `(e) The total administrative costs, direct and indirect, charged for
  carrying out State projects and programs may not exceed 25 percent of the
  aggregate costs except in the case of grants under section 101(e)(6).'.
SEC. 4010. APPORTIONMENT OF GRANT FUNDS.
  Section 103 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470c)
  is amended as follows--
  (1) In subsection (a) strike `for comprehensive statewide historic surveys
  and plans under this Act', and insert `for the purposes this Act'.
  (2) In subsection (b) strike `by the Secretary in accordance with needs as
  disclosed in approved statewide historic preservation plans.' and insert
  `as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.'.
  (3) At the end of subsection (b) insert `The Secretary shall analyze and
  revise as necessary the method of apportionment. Such method and any revision
  thereof shall be published by the Secretary in the Federal Register.'.
SEC. 4011. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND.
  Section 108 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h-2)
  is amended by striking `1992' and inserting `1997'.
SEC. 4012. FEDERAL AGENCY HISTORIC PRESERVATION PROGRAMS.
  Section 110 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470h-2)
  is amended as follows--
  (1) In subsection (a)(1) strike `101(f)' and insert `101(g)'.
  (2) Amend subsection (a)(2) to read as follows:
  `(2) Each Federal agency shall establish (unless exempted pursuant to
  section 214), in consultation with the Secretary, a preservation program
  for the identification, evaluation, and nomination to the National Register
  of Historic Places, and protection of historic properties. Such program
  shall ensure--
  `(A) that historic properties under the jurisdiction or control of the
  agency, are identified, evaluated, and nominated to the National Register;
  `(B) that such properties under the jurisdiction or control of the agency
  as are listed in or may be eligible for the National Register are managed
  and maintained in a way that considers the preservation of their historic,
  archaeological, architectural, and cultural values in compliance with
  section 106 and gives special consideration to the preservation of such
  values in the case of properties designated as having National significance;
  `(C) that the preservation of properties not under the jurisdiction or
  control of the agency, but subject to be potentially affected by agency
  actions are given full consideration in planning;
  `(D) that the agency's preservation-related activities are carried out in
  consultation with other Federal, State, and local agencies, Indian tribes,
  Native Hawaiian organizations carrying out historic preservation planning
  activities, and with the private sector; and
  `(E) that the agency's procedures for compliance with section 106--
  `(i) are consistent with regulations issued by the Council pursuant to
  section 211;
  `(ii) provide a process for the identification and evaluation of historic
  properties for listing in the National Register and the development
  and implementation of agreements, in consultation with State Historic
  Preservation Officers, local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian
  organizations, and the interested public, as appropriate, regarding the
  means by which adverse effects on such properties will be considered; and
  `(iii) provide for the disposition of Native American cultural items from
  Federal or tribal land in a manner consistent with section 3(c) of the
  Native American Grave Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3002(c)).'.
  (3) Add at the end thereof the following new subsections:
  `(k) Each Federal agency shall ensure that the agency will not grant a loan,
  loan guarantee, permit, license, or other assistance to an applicant who,
  with intent to avoid the requirements of section 106, has intentionally
  significantly adversely affected a historic property to which the grant
  would relate, or having legal power to prevent it, allowed such significant
  adverse effect to occur, unless the agency, after consultation with the
  Council, determines that circumstances justify granting such assistance
  despite the adverse effect created or permitted by the applicant.
  `(l) With respect to any undertaking subject to section 106 which adversely
  affects any property included in or eligible for inclusion in the National
  Register, and for which a Federal agency has not entered into an agreement
  with the Council, the head of such agency shall document any decision
  made pursuant to section 106. The head of such agency may not delegate
  his or her responsibilities pursuant to such section. Where a section 106
  memorandum of agreement has been executed with respect to an undertaking,
  such memorandum shall govern the undertaking and all of its parts.'.
SEC. 4013. LEASE OR EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL HOUSING PROPERTIES.
  Section 111(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16
  U.S.C. 470h-3(a)) is amended by striking `may, after consultation with
  the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation,' and inserting `after
  consultation with the Council, shall, to the extent practicable, establish
  and implement alternatives for historic properties, including adaptive use,
  that are not needed for current or projected agency purposes, and may'.
SEC. 4014. PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
  Title I of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 112. PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each Federal agency that is responsible for the protection
  of historic resources, including archaeological resources pursuant to this
  Act or any other law shall ensure each of the following--
  `(1)(A) All actions taken by employees or contractors of such agency shall
  meet professional standards under regulations developed by the Secretary in
  consultation with the Council, other affected agencies, and the appropriate
  professional societies of the disciplines involved, specifically archaeology,
  architecture, conservation, history, landscape architecture, and planning.
  `(B) Agency personnel or contractors responsible for historic resources
  shall meet qualification standards established by the Office of Personnel
  Management in consultation with the Secretary and appropriate professional
  societies of the disciplines involved. The Office of Personnel Management
  shall revise qualification standards within 2 years after the date of
  enactment of this Act for the disciplines involved, specifically archaeology,
  architecture, conservation, curation, history, landscape architecture,
  and planning. Such standards shall consider the particular skills and
  expertise needed for the preservation of historic resources and shall be
  equivalent requirements for the disciplines involved.
  `(2) Records and other data, including data produced by historical research
  and archaeological surveys and excavations are permanently maintained in
  appropriate data bases and made available to potential users pursuant to
  such regulations as the Secretary shall promulgate.
  `(b) GUIDELINES- In order to promote the preservation of historic resources
  on properties eligible for listing in the National Register, the Secretary
  shall, in consultation with the Council, promulgate guidelines to ensure
  that Federal, State, and tribal historic preservation programs subject to
  this Act include plans to--
  `(1) provide information to the owners of properties containing historic
  (including architectural, curatorial, and archaeological) resources with
  demonstrated or likely research significance, about the need for protection
  of such resources, and the available means of protection;
  `(2) encourage owners to preserve such resources intact and in place
  and offer the owners of such resources information on the tax and grant
  assistance available for the donation of the resources or of a preservation
  easement of the resources;
  `(3) encourage the protection of Native American cultural items (within the
  meaning of section 2 (3) and (9) of the Native American Grave Protection
  and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 (3) and (9)) and of properties of
  religious or cultural importance to Indian tribes, Native Hawaiians,
  or other Native American groups; and
  `(4) encourage owners who are undertaking archaeological excavations to--
  `(A) conduct excavations and analyses that meet standards for
  federally-sponsored excavations established by the Secretary;
  `(B) donate or lend artifacts of research significance to an appropriate
  research institution;
  `(C) allow access to artifacts for research purposes; and
  `(D) prior to excavating or disposing of a Native American cultural item in
  which an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization may have an interest
  under section 3(a)(2) (B) or (C) of the Native American Grave Protection
  and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3002(a)(2) (B) and (C)), given notice to
  and consult with such Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization.'.
SEC. 4015. INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ANTIQUITIES.
  Title I of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end thereof of the following new section after
  section 112:
`SEC. 113. INTERSTATE AND INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC IN ANTIQUITIES.
  `(a) STUDY- In order to help control illegal interstate and international
  traffic in antiquities, including archaeological, curatorial, and
  architectural objects, and historical documents of all kinds, the Secretary
  shall study and report on the suitability and feasibility of alternatives
  for controlling illegal interstate and international traffic in antiquities.
  `(b) CONSULTATION- In conducting the study described in subsection (a)
  the Secretary shall consult with the Council and other Federal agencies
  that conduct, cause to be conducted, or permit archaeological surveys or
  excavations or that have responsibilities for other kinds of antiquities and
  with State Historic Preservation Officers, archaeological, architectural,
  historical, conservation, and curatorial organizations, Indian tribes,
  Native Hawaiian organizations, and other Native American organizations,
  international organizations and other interested persons.
  `(c) REPORT- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of
  this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report detailing
  the Secretary's findings and recommendations from the study described in
  subsection (a).
  `(d) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated not more than
  $500,000 for the study described in subsection (a), such sums to remain
  available until expended.'.
SEC. 4016. MEMBERSHIP OF ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION.
  Section 201(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470i(a))
  is amended as follows:
  (1) Strike `and' at the end of paragraph (9).
  (2) Strike the period at the end of paragraph (10) and insert `; and'.
  (3) Add at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(11) one member of an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization who
  represents the interests of the tribe or organization of which he or she
  is a member, appointed by the President.'.
SEC. 4017. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATONS FOR ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC
PRESERVATION.
  Section 212(a) of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470)
  and following is amended by striking the last sentence thereof and inserting
  `There are authorized to be appropriated for purposes of this title not
  to exceed $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1996.'.
SEC. 4018. ADVISORY COUNCIL REGULATIONS.
  Section 211 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470s)
  is amended by striking the period at the end of the first sentence and
  inserting `in its entirety.'.
SEC. 4019. DEFINITIONS.
  (a) AMENDMENT AND ADDITION OF DEFINITIONS- Section 301 of the National
  Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470w) is amended as follows--
  (1) In paragraph (1) strike `Code,' and all that follows through the end
  of the paragraph, and insert in lieu thereof `Code.'.
  (2) In paragraph (2) strike `the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands'
  and insert `the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and, upon termination
  of the Trusteeship Agreement for the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
  the Republic of Palau'.
  (3) Amend paragraph (4) to read as follows:
  `(4) `Indian tribe' or `tribe' means an Indian tribe, band, nation, or
  other organized group or community, including a Native village, Regional
  Corporation or Village Corporation, as those terms are defined in section
  3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602), which is
  recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by
  the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.'.
  (4) In paragraph (5) strike `Register' and all that follows through the
  end of the paragraph and insert `Register, including artifacts, records,
  and material remains related to such a property or resource.'.
  (5) Amend paragraph (7) to read as follows:
  `(7) `Undertaking' means a project, activity, or program funded in whole
  or in part under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of a Federal agency,
  including--
  `(A) those carried out by or on behalf of the agency;
  `(B) those carried out with Federal financial assistance;
  `(C) those requiring a Federal permit license, or approval; and
  `(D) those subject to State or local regulation administered pursuant to
  a delegation or approval by a Federal agency.'.
  (6) In paragraph (8) strike `maintenance and reconstruction,' and insert
  `maintenance, research, interpretation, conservation, and education and
  training regarding the foregoing activities,'.
  (7) In paragraph (9) strike `urban area' and insert `area'.
  (8) In paragraph (10) strike `urban area of one or more neighborhoods and'
  and insert `area'.
  (9) In paragraph (11) after `of the Interior' insert `acting through the
  Director of the National Park Service'.
  (10) In paragraph (12) strike `and architecture' and insert `architecture,
  folklore, cultural anthropology, curation, conservation, and landscape
  architecture'.
  (11) In paragraph (13) strike `archaeology' and insert `prehistoric
  and historic archaeology, folklore, cultural anthropology, curation,
  conservation, and landscape architecture'.
  (12) Add at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
  `(14) `Tribal lands' means--
  `(A) all lands within the exterior boundaries of any Indian reservation; and
  `(B) all dependent Indian communities.
  `(15) `Certified local government' means a local government whose local
  historic preservation program has been certified pursuant to section 101(c).
  `(16) `Council' means the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
  established by section 201.
  `(17) `Native Hawaiian' means any individual who is a descendant of the
  aboriginal people who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty
  in the area that now constitutes the State of Hawaii.
  `(18) `Native Hawaiian organization' means any organization which--
  `(A) serves and represents the interests of Native Hawaiians;
  `(B) has as a primary and stated purpose the provision of services to
  Native Hawaiians; and
  `(C) has demonstrated expertise in aspects of historic preservation that
  are culturally significant to Native Hawaiians.
The term includes, but is not limited to, the Office of Hawaiian Affairs of
the State of Hawaii and Hui Malama I Na Kupuna O Hawai'i Nei, an organization
incorporated under the laws of the State of Hawaii.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 201(a) of the National Historic Preservation
  Act (16 U.S.C. 470i(a)) is amended by striking `(hereafter referred to as
  the `Council')'.
SEC. 4020. ACCESS TO INFORMATION.
  Section 304 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4702-3)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 304. ACCESS TO INFORMATION.
  `(a) AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD FROM DISCLOSURE- The head of a Federal agency
  or other public official receiving grant assistance pursuant to this Act,
  after consultation with the Secretary, shall withhold from disclosure to the
  public, information about the location, character, or ownership of a historic
  resource if the Secretary and the agency determine that disclosure may--
  `(1) cause a significant invasion of privacy;
  `(2) risk harm to the historic resources; or
  `(3) impede the use of a traditional religious site by practitioners.
  `(b) ACCESS DETERMINATION- When the head of a Federal agency or other
  public official has determined that information should be withheld from
  the public pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary, in consultation with
  such Federal agency head or official, shall determine who may have access
  to the information for the purpose of carrying out this Act.
  `(c) CONSULTATION WITH COUNCIL- When the information in question has been
  developed in the course of an agency's compliance with section 106 or 110(f),
  the Secretary shall consult with the Council in reaching determinations
  under subsections (a) and (b).'.
SEC. 4021. RECOMMENDATIONS.
  The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Advisory Council,
  shall seek to ensure that historic properties preserved under the National
  Historic Preservation Act fully reflect the historical experience of
  this nation.
SEC. 4022. NATIONAL CENTER FOR PRESERVATION TECHNOLOGY AND TRAINING.
  The National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 and following)
  is amended by adding the following at the end thereof:
`TITLE IV--NATIONAL CENTER FOR PRESERVATION TECHNOLOGY AND TRAINING
`SEC. 401. FINDINGS.
  `The Congress finds and declares that, given the complexity of technical
  problems encountered in preserving historic properties and the lack
  of adequate distribution of technical information to preserve such
  properties, a national initiative to coordinate and promote research,
  distribute information, and provide training about preservation skills
  and technologies would be beneficial.
`SEC. 402. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purposes of this title--
  `(1) The term `Board' means the National Preservation Technology and
  Training Board established pursuant to section 404.
  `(2) The term `Center' means the National Center for Preservation Technology
  and Training established pursuant to section 403.
  `(3) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
`SEC. 403. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL CENTER.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established within the Department of the
  Interior a National Center for Preservation Technology and Training. The
  Center shall be located at Northwestern State University of Louisiana in
  Natchitoches, Louisiana.
  `(b) PURPOSES- The purposes of the Center shall be to--
  `(1) develop and distribute preservation and conservation skills and
  technologies for the identification, evaluation, conservation, and
  interpretation of prehistoric and historic resources;
  `(2) develop and facilitate training for Federal, State and local resource
  preservation professionals, cultural resource managers, maintenance
  personnel, and others working in the preservation field;
  `(3) take steps to apply preservation technology benefits from ongoing
  research by other agencies and institutions;
  `(4) facilitate the transfer of preservation technology among Federal
  agencies, State and local governments, universities, international
  organizations, and the private sector; and
  `(5) cooperate with related international organizations including, but
  not limited to the International Council on Monuments and Sites, the
  International Center for the Study of Preservation and Restoration of
  Cultural Property, and the International Council on Museums.
  `(c) PROGRAMS- Such purposes shall be carried out through research,
  professional training, technical assistance, and programs for public
  awareness, and through a program of grants established under section 405.
  `(d) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- The Center shall be headed by an Executive
  Director with demonstrated expertise in historic preservation appointed
  by the Secretary with advice of the Board.
  `(e) ASSISTANCE FROM SECRETARY- The Secretary shall provide the Center
  assistance in obtaining such personnel, equipment, and facilities as may
  be needed by the Center to carry out its activities.
`SEC. 404. PRESERVATION TECHNOLOGY AND TRAINING BOARD.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a Preservation Technology and
  Training Board.
  `(b) DUTIES- The Board shall--
  `(1) provide leadership, policy advice, and professional oversight to
  the Center;
  `(2) advise the Secretary on priorities and the allocation of grants among
  the activities of the Center; and
  `(3) submit an annual report to the President and the Congress.
  `(c) MEMBERSHIP- The Board shall be comprised of--
  `(1) the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee;
  `(2) 6 members appointed by the Secretary who shall represent appropriate
  Federal, State, and local agencies, State and local historic preservation
  commissions, and other public and international organizations, and
  `(3) 6 members appointed by the Secretary on the basis of outstanding
  professional qualifications who represent major organizations in the fields
  of archaeology, architecture, conservation, curation, engineering, history,
  historic preservation, landscape architecture, planning, or preservation
  education.
`SEC. 405. PRESERVATION GRANTS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, in consultation with the Board, shall provide
  preservation technology and training grants to eligible applicants with a
  demonstrated institutional capability and commitment to the purposes of the
  Center, in order to ensure an effective and efficient system of research,
  information distribution and skills training in all the related historic
  preservation fields.
  `(b) GRANT REQUIREMENTS- (1) Grants provided under this section shall
  be allocated in such a fashion to reflect the diversity of the historic
  preservation fields and shall be geographically distributed.
  `(2) No grant recipient may receive more than 10 percent of the grants
  allocated under this section within any year.
  `(3) The total administrative costs, direct and indirect, charged for
  carrying out grants under this section may not exceed 25 percent of the
  aggregate costs.
  `(c) ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS- Eligible applicants may include Federal and
  non-Federal laboratories, accredited museums, universities, nonprofit
  organizations; offices, units, and Cooperative Park Study Units of
  the National Park System, State Historic Preservation Offices, tribal
  preservation offices, and Native Hawaiian organizations.
  `(d) STANDARDS- All such grants shall be awarded in accordance with accepted
  professional standards and methods, including peer review of projects.
  `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary.
`SEC. 406. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
  `(a) ACCEPTANCE OF GRANTS AND TRANSFERS- The Center may accept--
  `(1) grants and donations from private individuals, groups, organizations,
  corporations, foundations, and other entities; and
  `(2) transfers of funds from other Federal agencies.
  `(b) CONTRACTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- Subject to appropriations, the
  Center may enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with Federal,
  State, local, and tribal governments, Native Hawaiian organizations,
  educational institutions, and other public entities to carry out the
  Center's responsibilities under this title.
  `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  such sums as may be necessary for the establishment, operation, and
  maintenance of the Center. Funds for the Center shall be in addition to
  existing National Park Service programs, centers, and offices.
`SEC. 407. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE PRESERVATION.
  `In order to improve the use of existing National Park Service resources, the
  Secretary shall fully utilize and further develop the National Park Service
  preservation (including conservation) centers and regional offices. The
  Secretary shall improve the coordination of such centers and offices within
  the National Park Service, and shall, where appropriate, coordinate their
  activities with the Center and with other appropriate parties.'.
SEC. 4023. REQUIREMENT FOR SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION FOR PROJECTS UNDER THE
HISTORIC SITES, BUILDINGS, AND ANTIQUITIES ACT.
  Section 6 of the Act entitled `An Act to provide for the preservation of
  historic American sites, buildings, objects, and antiquities of national
  significance, and for other purposes' (16 U.S.C. 461-467) is amended to
  read as follows:
`SEC. 6. REQUIREMENT FOR SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION FOR PROJECTS UNDER THE
HISTORIC SITES, BUILDINGS, AND ANTIQUITIES ACT.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, no funds appropriated or otherwise made available
  to the Secretary of the Interior to carry out section 2(e) or 2(f) may be
  obligated or expended after the date of enactment of this section--
  `(1) unless the appropriation of such funds has been specifically authorized
  by law enacted on or after the date of enactment of this section; or
  `(2) in excess of the amount prescribed by law enacted on or after such date.
  `(b) SAVINGS PROVISION- Nothing in this section shall prohibit or limit the
  expenditure or obligation of any funds appropriated prior to January 1, 1993.
  `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Except as provided by subsection
  (a), there is authorized to be appropriated for carrying out the purposes
  of this Act such sums as the Congress may from time to time determine.'.
SEC. 4024. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JUNIOR, NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE AND PRESERVATION
DISTRICT.
  (a) BOUNDARY MODIFICATION- Subsection (a) of the first section of the Act
  entitled `An Act to establish the Martin Luther King, Junior, National
  Historic Site in the State of Georgia, and for other purposes' (Public
  Law 96-428; 94 Stat. 1839), establishing the Martin Luther King, Junior,
  National Historic Site and Preservation District, is amended by striking
  `numbered NASM/SERO/20, 109-C, and dated May 1980' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `number 489/80,013B, and dated September 1992'.
  (b) LIMITATION ON APPROPRIATIONS- Section 6 of Public Law 96-0428 (94
  Stat. 1842) is amended by striking `, but not to exceed $1,000,000 for
  development, $100,000 for local planning, and $3,500,000 for the acquisition
  of lands and interests therein'.
SEC. 4025. SECRETARIAL REPORT.
  (a) REPORT- Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall prepare and submit to the Congress
  a report on the manner in which properties are listed or determined to be
  eligible for listing on the National Register, including but not limited to,
  the appropriateness of the criteria used in determining such eligibility,
  and the effect, if any, of such listing or finding of eligibility.
  (b) PREPARATION- In preparing the report, the Secretary shall consult
  with, and consider the views and comments of other Federal agencies, as
  well as interested individuals and public and private organizations, and
  shall include representative comments received as an appendix to the report.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.