 
--H.R.3033--
H.R.3033
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Job Training Partnership Act to improve the delivery of services
to hard-to-serve youth and adults, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 The table of contents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
TITLE I--JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A--General Provisions
Sec. 101. Declaration of policy and statement of purpose.
Sec. 102. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 103. Definitions.
Subtitle B--Service Delivery System
Sec. 111. Establishment of service delivery areas.
Sec. 112. Establishment of private industry council.
Sec. 113. Job training plan.
Sec. 114. Review and approval of plan.
Sec. 115. Performance standards.
Sec. 116. Selection of service providers.
Sec. 117. Limitation on certain costs.
Sec. 118. Recapture and reallotment of unobligated funds under title II.
Subtitle C--Additional State Responsibilities
Sec. 121. Governor's coordination and special services plan.
Sec. 122. State education coordination and grants.
Sec. 123. Identification of additional imposed requirements.
Sec. 124. State labor market information programs.
Subtitle D--Program Requirements for Service Delivery System
Sec. 131. General program requirements.
Sec. 132. Benefits.
Sec. 133. Labor standards.
Sec. 134. Grievance procedure.
Subtitle E--Federal and Fiscal Administrative Provisions
Sec. 141. Prompt allocation of funds.
Sec. 142. Fiscal controls; sanctions.
Sec. 143. Reports, recordkeeping, and investigations.
Sec. 144. Nondiscrimination.
Sec. 145. Utilization of services and facilities.
TITLE II--TRAINING SERVICES FOR THE DISADVANTAGED
Sec. 201. Adult training program.
Sec. 202. Adult training program allotment and allocation.
Sec. 203. Adult training program eligibility and services.
Sec. 204. Summer youth employment and training program.
Sec. 205. Summer youth program transfer of funds.
Sec. 206. Youth training program.
Sec. 207. Youth training program allotment and allocation.
Sec. 208. Youth training program eligibility and services.
TITLE III--EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE FOR DISLOCATED WORKERS
Sec. 301. State agency approval.
Sec. 302. Limitations on uses of funds.
Sec. 303. Demonstration programs.
TITLE IV--FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
Sec. 401. Native American and migrant programs.
Sec. 402. Job Corps.
Sec. 403. National activities.
Sec. 404. Uniform requirements.
Sec. 405. Labor market information.
Sec. 406. Establishment of the Youth Fair Chance program.
Sec. 407. Establishment of the microenterprise grants program.
Sec. 408. Establishment of the disaster relief program.
TITLE V--JOBS FOR EMPLOYABLE DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS INCENTIVE BONUS PROGRAM
Sec. 501. Jobs for employable dependent individuals.
TITLE VI--STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL
Sec. 601. State human resource investment council.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 701. Effective date and transition provisions.
Sec. 702. Technical and conforming amendments.
TITLE I--JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A--General Provisions
SEC. 101. DECLARATION OF POLICY AND STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 (a) DECLARATION OF POLICY- In recognition of the training needs of low-income
 adults and youth, the Congress declares it to be the policy of the United
 States to--
 (1) provide financial assistance to States and local service delivery
 areas to meet the training needs of such low-income adults and youth,
 and to assist such individuals in obtaining unsubsidized employment;
 (2) increase the funds available for programs under title II of the
 Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) by not less than
 10 percent of the baseline each fiscal year to provide for growth in the
 percentage of eligible adults and youth served above the 5 percent of the
 eligible population that is currently served; and
 (3) encourage the provision of longer, more comprehensive, education,
 training, and employment services to the eligible population, which also
 requires increased funding in order to maintain current service levels.
 (b) STATEMENT OF PURPOSE- Section 2 of the Job Training Partnership Act
 (29 U.S.C. 1501) (hereafter in this Act referred to as `the Act') is amended
 to read as follows:
`STATEMENT OF PURPOSE
 `SEC. 2. It is the purpose of this Act to establish programs to prepare youth
 and adults facing serious barriers to employment for participation in the
 labor force by providing job training and other services that will result
 in increased employment and earnings, increased educational and occupational
 skills, and decreased welfare dependency, thereby improving the quality of the
 work force and enhancing the productivity and competitiveness of the Nation.'.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 3 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1502) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following:
 `(a)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out parts A and
 C of title II such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1993 and for
 each succeeding fiscal year. Of the sums appropriated to carry out parts
 A and C of title II for each such fiscal year, an amount not less than 40
 percent of such sums shall be made available to carry out part A of such
 title and an amount not less than 40 percent of such sums shall be made
 available to carry out part C of such title.
 `(2) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part B of title II
 such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1993 and for each succeeding
 fiscal year.';
 (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b);
 (3) by inserting after such subsection (b) the following:
 `(c)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out parts A, C, D,
 E, F, and G of title IV for fiscal year 1993 and each succeeding fiscal year
 an amount equal to not more than 7 percent of the total amount appropriated
 to carry out this Act for each such fiscal year.
 `(2) From the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year,
 the Secretary--
 `(A) shall first reserve--
 `(i) an amount of not less than 3.3 percent of the amount available for
 parts A and C of title II for such fiscal year to carry out section 401; and
 `(ii) an amount of not less than 3.2 percent of the amount available for
 parts A and C of title II for such fiscal year to carry out section 402; and
 `(B) after making such reservations, shall reserve--
 `(i) an amount equal to 7 percent of the amount appropriated under paragraph
 (1) to carry out part C of title IV;
 `(ii) $15,000,000 to carry out section 453, of which--
 `(I) not less than 20 percent shall be used to carry out section 453(b);
 `(II) not less than 20 percent shall be used to carry out section 453(c); and
 `(III) $1,000,000 shall be used to carry out section 453(d);
 `(iii) $6,000,000 to carry out subsections (e) and (f) of section 462; and
 `(iv) $2,000,000 to carry out part F of title IV.
 `(3) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part H of title
 IV $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
 each of the fiscal years 1994 through 1997.
 `(4) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part I of title
 IV $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.
 `(5) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part J of title
 IV, $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
 each succeeding fiscal year.'; and
 (4) in subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking `(e)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), there' and inserting
 `(e) There';
 (B) by striking `1994' and inserting `1996'; and
 (C) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3).
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Subsections (a) and (e) of section 302 of the
 Act (29 U.S.C. 1652 (a) and (e)) and section 326(h) of the Act (1662e(h))
 are amended by striking `3(c)' and inserting `3(b)'.
SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 4 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1503) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `a program under part A' and inserting
 `programs under parts A and C'; and
 (2) in paragraph (5)--
 (A) by inserting `the Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs,
 the Center for Employment Training, literacy organizations, agencies or
 organizations serving older individuals, organizations that provide service
 opportunities, youth corps programs,' after `Jobs for Youth,'; and
 (B) by striking `(including the National Urban Indian Council)';
 (3) in paragraph (8)--
 (A) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking `the poverty level determined
 in accordance with criteria established by the Director of the Office of
 Management and Budget' and inserting `the official poverty line (as defined
 by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised annually in accordance
 with section 673(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42
 U.S.C. 9902(2))';
 (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting `(or has been determined within the
 6-month period prior to the application for the program involved to be
 eligible to receive)' after `is receiving';
 (C) in subparagraph (D), by inserting `subsections (a) and (c) of' after
 `under'; and
 (D) in subparagraph (F), by striking `adult handicapped individual' and
 inserting `individual with a disability';
 (4) in paragraph (10)--
 (A) by striking `(10)' and inserting `(10)(A)';
 (B) by striking `handicapped individual' and inserting `individual with a
 disability'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 `(B) The term `individuals with disabilities' means more than one individual
 with a disability.';
 (5) in paragraph (22), by striking `and the Trust Territory of the Pacific
 Islands' and inserting `the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
 of the Marshall Islands, and Palau';
 (6) in paragraph (24)--
 (A) by inserting `financial assistance (except as a post-termination
 service), drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral, individual and
 family counseling,' after `health care,';
 (B) by striking `materials for the handicapped,' and inserting `materials
 for individuals with disabilities, job coaches,'; and
 (C) by inserting `and dependent care' after `child care';
 (7) by amending paragraph (29) to read as follows:
 `(29) The term `displaced homemaker' means an individual who has been
 providing unpaid services to family members in the home and who--
 `(A) has been dependent either--
 `(i) on public assistance and whose youngest child is within 2 years of
 losing eligibility under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act
 (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.); or
 `(ii) on the income of another family member but is no longer supported by
 that income; and
 `(B) is unemployed or underemployed and is experiencing difficulty in
 obtaining or upgrading employment.'; and
 (8) by adding after paragraph (30) the following new paragraphs:
 `(31) The term `basic skills deficient' means, with respect to an individual,
 that the individual has English reading or computing skills at or below the
 8th grade level on a generally accepted standardized test or a comparable
 score on a criterion-referenced test.
 `(32) The term `case management' means the provision of a client-centered
 approach in the delivery of services, designed to--
 `(A) prepare and coordinate comprehensive employment plans, such as service
 strategies, for participants to ensure access to the necessary training and
 supportive services, using, where feasible, computer-based technologies; and
 `(B) provide job and career counseling during program participation and
 after job placement.
 `(33) The term `citizenship skills' means skills and qualities, such as
 teamwork, problem-solving ability, self-esteem, initiative, leadership,
 commitment to life-long learning, and an ethic of civic responsibility,
 that are characteristic of productive workers and good citizens.
 `(34) The term `family' means two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
 or decree of court, who are living in a single residence, and are included
 in one or more of the following categories:
 `(A) A husband, wife, and dependent children.
 `(B) A parent or guardian and dependent children.
 `(C) A husband and wife.
 `(35) The term `hard-to-serve individual' means an individual who is included
 in one or more of the categories described in section 203(b) or subsection
 (b) or (d) of section 263.
 `(36) The term `JOBS' means the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training
 Program authorized under part F of title IV of the Social Security Act
 (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.).
 `(37) The term `participant' means an individual who has been determined
 to be eligible to participate in and who is receiving services (except
 post-termination services authorized under sections 204(c)(4) and 264(d)(5)
 and followup services authorized under section 253(d)) under a program
 authorized by this Act. Participation shall be deemed to commence on the
 first day, following determination of eligibility, on which the participant
 began receiving subsidized employment, training, or other services provided
 under this Act.
 `(38) The term `school dropout' means an individual who is no longer
 attending any school and who has not received a secondary school diploma
 or a certificate from a program of equivalency for such a diploma.
 `(39) The term `termination' means the separation of a participant who is
 no longer receiving services (except post-termination services authorized
 under sections 204(c)(4) and 264(d)(5) and followup services authorized
 under section 253(d)) under a program authorized by this Act.
 `(40) The term `youth corps program' means a program, such as a conservation
 corps or youth service program, that offers productive work with visible
 community benefits in a natural resource or human service setting and
 that gives participants a mix of work experience, basic and life skills,
 education, training, and supportive services.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 4 (29 U.S.C. 1503)--
 (A) in paragraph (5), by striking `the handicapped' and inserting `individuals
 with disabilities';
 (B) in paragraph (8)(F), by striking `adult handicapped individual' and
 inserting `individual with a disability'; and
 (C) in paragraph (28), by striking `section 521(31)' and inserting `section
 521(41)';
 (2) in section 167(a)(2) (29 U.S.C. 1577(a)(2)), by striking `handicap'
 and inserting `disability';
 (3) in the second section 172(b) (as added by Public Law 100-628) (29
 U.S.C. 1583(b)), by striking `handicapped individuals' and inserting
 `individuals with disabilities'; and
 (4) in section 423(1) (29 U.S.C. 1693(1)), by striking `handicapped
 individual' and inserting `individual with a disability'.
Subtitle B--Service Delivery System
SEC. 111. ESTABLISHMENT OF SERVICE DELIVERY AREAS.
 Section 101(c)(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1511(c)(1)) is amended by inserting
 before the period at the end of the first sentence the following: `, except
 as provided for in sections 106(j)(4)(B) and 164(b)(1)(B)'.
SEC. 112. ESTABLISHMENT OF PRIVATE INDUSTRY COUNCIL.
 (a) COMPOSITION-
 (1) MEMBERSHIP- Section 102(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1512(a)(2)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1); and
 (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
 `(2) representatives of organized labor and community-based organizations,
 who shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the
 council; and
 `(3) representatives of each of the following:
 `(A) Educational agencies (which agencies shall be representative of all
 educational agencies in the service delivery area).
 `(B) Vocational rehabilitation agencies.
 `(C) Public assistance agencies.
 `(D) Economic development agencies.
 `(E) The public employment service.'.
 (2) NOMINATION- Section 102(c)(2) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1512(c)(2)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(2) The education representatives on the council shall be selected from among
 individuals nominated by regional or local educational agencies, vocational
 education institutions, institutions of higher education (including entities
 offering adult education) or general organizations of such institutions,
 within the service delivery area.'.
 (3) RECOMMENDATIONS- Section 102(c)(3) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1512(c)(3))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) The labor representatives on the council shall be selected from
 individuals recommended by recognized State and local labor federations. If
 the State or local labor federation fails to nominate a sufficient number
 of individuals to meet the labor representation requirements of subsection
 (a)(2), individual workers may be included on the council to complete the
 labor representation.'.
 (4) ADDITIONAL REPRESENTATIVES- Section 102(c) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1512(c))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) The remaining members of the council shall be selected from individuals
 recommended by interested organizations.'.
SEC. 113. JOB TRAINING PLAN.
 (a) RESTRICTION OF PLANS TO TITLE II PROGRAMS- Section 104(a) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1514(a)) is amended by inserting `under title II' after `appropriated'.
 (b) CONTENTS OF JOB TRAINING PLANS- Section 104(b) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1514(b)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) Each job training plan for the programs conducted under title II
 shall contain--
 `(1) an identification of the entity that will administer the program and
 be the grant recipient of funds from the State;
 `(2) if there is more than one service delivery area in a single labor market
 area, provisions for coordinating particular aspects of the service delivery
 area program with other programs and service providers in the labor market
 area, including provisions for--
 `(A) assessing needs and problems in the labor market that form the basis
 for program planning;
 `(B) ensuring access by program participants in each service delivery
 area to skills training and employment opportunities throughout the entire
 labor market;
 `(C) coordinating or jointly implementing job development, placement,
 and other employer outreach activities; and
 `(D) entering into agreements and contracts, established pursuant to
 section 141(e)(2), between service delivery areas to pay or share the cost
 of services;
 `(3) a description of methods of complying with the coordination criteria
 contained in the Governor's coordination and special services plan;
 `(4) a description of linkages established with appropriate agencies,
 pursuant to sections 205 and 265, designed to enhance the provision of
 services and avoid duplication, including--
 `(A) agreements with appropriate educational agencies;
 `(B) arrangements with other education, training, and employment programs
 authorized by Federal law;
 `(C) if appropriate, joint programs in which activities supported with
 assistance under this Act are coordinated with activities (such as service
 opportunities and youth corps programs) supported with assistance made
 available under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42
 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.); and
 `(D) efforts to ensure the effective delivery of services to participants
 in coordination with local welfare agencies and other local agencies,
 community-based organizations, volunteer groups, business and labor
 organizations, and other training, education, employment, and social
 service programs;
 `(5) goals and objectives for the programs, including--
 `(A) a description of the manner in which the program will contribute to
 the economic self-sufficiency of participants, and the productivity of the
 local area and the Nation; and
 `(B) performance standards established in accordance with standards prescribed
 under section 106;
 `(6) procedures for identifying and selecting participants, including--
 `(A) goals for the training and placement of hard-to-serve individuals,
 and a description of efforts to be undertaken to accomplish such goals;
 `(B) outreach efforts to recruit and expand awareness of training and
 placement opportunities for such individuals; and
 `(C) types of services to be provided to address the special needs of
 such individuals;
 `(7)(A) goals for--
 `(i) the training of women in nontraditional employment; and
 `(ii) the training-related placement of women in nontraditional employment
 and apprenticeships; and
 `(B) a description of efforts to be undertaken to accomplish the goals
 described in subparagraph (A), including efforts to increase awareness of
 such training and placement opportunities;
 `(8) adult and youth program budgets for 2 program years and any proposed
 expenditures for the succeeding 2 program years;
 `(9) a description of--
 `(A) the assessment process that will identify participant skill levels;
 `(B) the process for providing information and referrals for applicants
 and participants relating to appropriate programs and service providers;
 `(C) the services to be provided, including the means for involving
 labor organizations and community-based organizations in the provision of
 services, the estimated duration of service, and the estimated training
 cost per participant;
 `(D) the competency levels to be achieved by participants as a result of
 program participation; and
 `(E) the procedures for evaluating the progress of participants in achieving
 competencies;
 `(10) a description of the procedures and methods of carrying out title V,
 where applicable, relating to incentive bonus payments for the placement
 of individuals eligible under such title;
 `(11) procedures, consistent with sections 107 and 164, for selecting
 service providers, which procedures shall take into account--
 `(A) past performance of the providers regarding--
 `(i) job training, basic skills training, or related activities;
 `(ii) fiscal accountability; and
 `(iii) ability to meet performance standards; and
 `(B) the ability of the providers to provide services that can lead to
 achievement of competency standards for participants with identified
 deficiencies;
 `(12) fiscal control (including procurement, monitoring, and management
 information system requirements), accounting, audit, and debt collection
 procedures, consistent with section 164, to assure the proper disbursal of,
 and accounting for, funds received under title II; and
 `(13) procedures for the preparation and submission of an annual report to
 the Governor, which report shall include--
 `(A) a description of activities conducted during the program year;
 `(B) characteristics of participants;
 `(C) information on the extent to which applicable performance standards
 were met;
 `(D) information on the extent to which the service delivery area has met
 the goals of the area for the training and training-related placement of
 women in nontraditional employment and apprenticeships; and
 `(E) a statistical breakdown of women trained and placed in nontraditional
 occupations, including information regarding--
 `(i) the type of training received, by occupation;
 `(ii) whether the participant was placed in a job or apprenticeship, and,
 if so, the occupation and wage at placement;
 `(iii) the age of the participant;
 `(iv) the race of the participant; and
 `(v) retention of the participant in nontraditional employment.'.
SEC. 114. REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF PLAN.
 Section 105 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1515) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B)(ii), by inserting `community-based organizations
 and' after `appropriate'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)(1)(E), by striking `section 121(b)', and inserting
 `sections 121(b), 205, and 265'.
SEC. 115. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 106 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1516) is amended to read
 as follows:
`PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
 `SEC. 106. (a) FINDINGS- The Congress recognizes that job training is
 an investment in human capital and not an expense. In order to determine
 whether that investment has been productive, the Congress finds that--
 `(1) it is essential that criteria for measuring the return on this investment
 be developed; and
 `(2) the basic return on the investment is to be measured by long-term
 economic self-sufficiency, increased employment and earnings, reductions in
 welfare dependency, and increased educational attainment and occupational
 skills.
 `(b) TITLE II PERFORMANCE STANDARDS-
 `(1) GENERAL OBJECTIVE- In prescribing performance standards for programs
 under parts A and C of title II, the Secretary shall ensure that States and
 service delivery areas will make efforts to increase services and positive
 outcomes for hard-to-serve individuals.
 `(2) ACHIEVEMENT OF BASIC MEASURES- In order to determine whether the basic
 measures described in subsection (a) are achieved for programs under parts
 A and C of title II, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of
 Education and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall prescribe
 performance standards.
 `(3) FACTORS FOR ADULT STANDARDS- The Secretary shall base the performance
 standards for adult programs under part A of title II on appropriate factors,
 which may include--
 `(A) placement in unsubsidized employment;
 `(B) retention for not less than 6 months in unsubsidized employment;
 `(C) an increase in earnings, including hourly wages;
 `(D) a reduction in welfare dependency; and
 `(E) acquisition of skills, including basic skills, required to promote
 continued employability in the local labor market (including attainment
 of the competency levels described in paragraph (5)), or acquisition of a
 high school diploma or the equivalent of the diploma, if the acquisition
 of such skills or diploma is in addition to obtaining one or more of the
 outcomes described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
 `(4) FACTORS FOR YOUTH STANDARDS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall base the performance standards for
 youth programs under part C of title II on appropriate factors described
 in paragraph (3), and on factors including--
 `(i) attainment of employment competencies (including attainment of the
 competency levels described in paragraph (5));
 `(ii) dropout prevention and recovery;
 `(iii) secondary and postsecondary school completion or the equivalent of
 such completion; and
 `(iv) enrollment in other training programs, apprenticeships, or postsecondary
 education, or enlistment in the Armed Forces.
 `(B) VARIATIONS- The Secretary may prescribe variations in the standards
 described in subparagraph (A) to reflect the differences between in-school
 and out-of-school programs.
 `(5) COMPETENCY LEVELS- The private industry councils, in consultation with
 appropriate educational agencies, and, where appropriate, the private sector,
 labor organizations, and community-based organizations, shall establish
 youth and adult competency levels, based on such factors as entry level
 skills and other hiring requirements.
 `(6) REQUIREMENTS- The performance standards described in paragraphs (3)
 and (4) shall include provisions governing--
 `(A) the base period prior to program participation that will be used for
 measurement of the factors in such paragraphs, as appropriate;
 `(B) a representative period after termination from the program that is a
 reasonable indicator of postprogram employment, earnings, and cash welfare
 payment reductions; and
 `(C) cost-effective methods for obtaining such data as are necessary to carry
 out this section and section 452(d) which, notwithstanding any other provision
 of law, may include access to earnings records, State employment security
 records, records collected under the Federal Insurance Contributions Act
 (chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986), State aid to families
 with dependent children records, statistical sampling techniques, and
 similar records or measures, with appropriate safeguards to protect the
 confidentiality of the information obtained.
 `(7) INCENTIVE GRANTS- From funds available under section 202(c)(1)(B),
 and under section 262(c)(1)(B), for providing incentive grants under this
 paragraph, each Governor shall award incentive grants for programs under
 parts A and C of title II, other than programs under section 204(d), to
 service delivery areas that--
 `(A) exceed the performance standards established by the Secretary under
 this subsection (except for the standards established under paragraph (8))
 with respect to services to all participants;
 `(B) exceed the performance standards established by the Secretary under
 this subsection (except for the standards established under paragraph (8))
 with respect to services to populations of hard-to-serve individuals;
 `(C) serve more than the minimum percentage of out-of-school youth required
 by section 263(f);
 `(D) place participants in employment that--
 `(i) provides post-program earnings exceeding the applicable performance
 criteria; and
 `(ii) includes employer-assisted employment benefits, including health
 benefits, consistent with the requirements of section 143(a)(4) relating
 to subsidized employment; and
 `(E) exceed the performance standards established by the Governor under
 subsection (e) for programs under title II, except that not more than 25
 percent of the incentive grants shall be awarded on performance standards
 established under subsection (e).
 `(8) PROGRAM EXPENDITURES- The Secretary shall prescribe performance standards
 relating gross program expenditures to various performance measures under
 this subsection, excluding any cost per participant measure. The Governors
 shall not take performance standards prescribed under this paragraph into
 consideration in awarding incentive grants under paragraph (7).
 `(c) TITLE III PERFORMANCE STANDARDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall prescribe performance standards for
 programs under title III based on placement and retention in unsubsidized
 employment.
 `(2) NEEDS-RELATED PAYMENTS- In prescribing performance standards under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall make appropriate allowance for the
 difference in cost resulting from serving workers receiving needs-related
 payments under section 314(e).
 `(d) STATE VARIATION OF PERFORMANCE STANDARDS-
 `(1) AUTHORITY OF GOVERNOR- Each Governor shall prescribe, and report in
 the Governor's coordination and special services plan, within parameters
 established by the Secretary, variations in the standards issued under
 subsections (b) and (c) based upon--
 `(A) specific economic, geographic, and demographic factors in the State
 and in service delivery areas and substate areas within the State;
 `(B) the characteristics of the population to be served;
 `(C) the demonstrated difficulties in serving the population; and
 `(D) the type of services to be provided.
 `(2) RESPONSIBILITIES OF SECRETARY- The Secretary shall--
 `(A) provide information and technical assistance on performance standards
 adjustments;
 `(B) collect data that identifies hard-to-serve individuals;
 `(C) provide guidance on setting performance standards at the service
 provider level that encourages increased service to such individuals; and
 `(D) review performance standards to ensure that such standards provide
 maximum incentive in serving such individuals.
 `(e) ADDITIONAL STATE STANDARDS PERMITTED- The Governor may prescribe
 performance standards for programs under title II and title III in addition
 to those standards established by the Secretary under subsections (b) and
 (c). Such additional standards may include criteria relating to establishment
 of effective linkages with other programs to avoid duplication and enhance the
 delivery of services, the provision of high quality services, and successful
 service to hard-to-serve individuals. The additional performance standards
 established for title II shall be reported in the Governor's coordination
 and special services plan.
 `(f) TITLE IV STANDARDS- The Secretary shall prescribe performance standards
 for programs under parts A and B of title IV.
 `(g) ADJUSTMENT FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS- The Secretary shall prescribe a
 system for variations in performance standards for special populations to
 be served, including Native Americans, migrant and seasonal farmworkers,
 disabled and Vietnam era veterans, including veterans who served in the
 Indochina Theater between August 5, 1964 and May 7, 1975, older individuals,
 including those served under section 204(d), and offenders, taking into
 account their special circumstances.
 `(h) MODIFICATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may modify the performance standards under this
 section not more often than once every 2 program years. Such modifications
 shall not be retroactive.
 `(2) JOB CORPS- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may modify
 standards relating to programs under part B of title IV each program year.
 `(i) FUNCTIONS OF NCEP- The National Commission for Employment Policy shall--
 `(1) advise the Secretary in the development of performance standards under
 this section for measuring results of participation in job training and in
 the development of parameters for variations of such standards referred to
 in subsection (d);
 `(2) evaluate the usefulness of such standards as measures of desired
 performance; and
 `(3) evaluate the impact of such standards (intended or otherwise) on the
 choice of who is served, what services are provided, and the cost of such
 services in service delivery areas.
 `(j) FAILURE TO MEET STANDARDS-
 `(1) UNIFORM CRITERIA- The Secretary shall establish uniform criteria for
 determining whether--
 `(A) a service delivery area fails to meet performance standards under this
 section; and
 `(B) the circumstances under which remedial action authorized under this
 subsection shall be taken.
 `(2)  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Each Governor shall provide technical assistance
 to service delivery areas failing to meet performance standards under the
 uniform criteria established under paragraph (1)(A).
 `(3) PROCESS FOR CORRECTION- Not later than 90 days after the end of
 each program year, each Governor shall report to the Secretary the final
 performance standards and performance for each service delivery area within
 the State, along with the plans of the Governor for providing the technical
 assistance required under paragraph (2).
 `(4) REORGANIZATION PLAN-
 `(A) PLAN REQUIRED FOR CONTINUED FAILURE- If a service delivery area continues
 to fail to meet such performance standards for 2 consecutive program years,
 the Governor shall notify the Secretary and the service delivery area of
 the continued failure, and shall develop and impose a reorganization plan.
 `(B) ELEMENTS- Such plan may restructure the private industry council,
 prohibit the use of designated service providers, merge the service delivery
 area into one or more other existing service delivery areas, or make other
 changes as the Governor determines to be necessary to improve performance,
 including the selection of an alternative administrative entity to administer
 the program for the service delivery area.
 `(C) ALTERNATIVE ADMINISTRATIVE ENTITY SELECTION- The alternative
 administrative entity described in subparagraph (B) may be a newly formed
 private industry council or any agency jointly selected by the Governor and
 the chief elected official of the largest unit of general local government
 in the service delivery area or substate area.
 `(5) SECRETARIAL ACTION-
 `(A) PLAN- If the Governor has not imposed a reorganization plan as required
 by paragraph (4) within 90 days of the end of the second program year in
 which a service delivery area has failed to meet its performance standards,
 the Secretary shall develop and impose such a plan.
 `(B) RECAPTURE OR WITHHOLDING- The Secretary shall recapture or withhold
 an amount not to exceed one-fifth of the State administration set-aside
 allocated under section 202(c)(1)(A) and under section 262(c)(1)(A), for
 the purposes of providing technical assistance under a reorganization plan
 imposed pursuant to subparagraph (A).
 `(6) APPEAL BY SERVICE DELIVERY AREA-
 `(A) TIMING- A service delivery area that is the subject of a reorganization
 plan under paragraph (4) may, within 30 days after receiving notice thereof,
 appeal to the Secretary to rescind or revise such plan.
 `(B) RECAPTURE OR WITHHOLDING-
 `(i) DETERMINATION- If the Secretary determines, upon appeal under
 subparagraph (A), that the Governor has not provided appropriate
 technical assistance as required under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall
 recapture or withhold an amount not to exceed one-fifth of the State
 administration set-aside allotted under section 202(c)(1)(A) and under
 section 262(c)(1)(A). The Secretary shall use funds recaptured or withheld
 under this subparagraph to provide appropriate technical assistance.
 `(ii) BASIS- If the Secretary approved the technical assistance plan provided
 by the Governor under paragraph (2), a determination under this subparagraph
 shall only be based on failure to effectively implement such plan and shall
 not be based on the plan itself.
 `(7) APPEAL BY GOVERNOR- A Governor of a State that is subject to recapture
 or withholding under paragraph (5) or (6)(B) may, within 30 days of receiving
 notice thereof, appeal such withholding to the Secretary.
 `(k) CLARIFICATION OR REFERENCE- For the purposes of this section, the term
 `employment' means employment for 20 or more hours per week.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Sections 311(a), 311(b)(8), and 322(a)(4) (29
 U.S.C. 1661(a), 1661(b)(8), and 1662a(a)(4)) are each amended by striking
 `106(g)' and inserting `106(c)'.
SEC. 116. SELECTION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS.
 (a) SELECTION GUIDELINES- Section 107(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1517(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `, (in accordance with guidelines established by the
 Secretary)' in the first sentence after `demonstrated performance'; and
 (2) by adding after the 1st sentence the following: `In addition,
 consideration shall be given to demonstrated performance in making available
 appropriate supportive services, including child care.'.
 (b) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SELECTION- Section 107 of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1517) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) The selection of service providers shall be made on a competitive
 basis to the extent practicable, and shall include--
 `(1) a determination of the ability of the service provider to meet program
 design specifications established by the administrative entity that take
 into account the purposes of the Act and the goals established in the
 Governor's coordination and special services plan; and
 `(2) documentation of compliance with procurement standards established by
 the Governor under section 164, including the reasons for selection.'.
SEC. 117. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN COSTS.
 (a) APPLICATION OF COST LIMITATIONS- Section 108(a) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1518(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) Except as provided in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 141(d)(3), funds
 expended under this Act shall be charged to the appropriate cost categories.'.
 (b) COST CATEGORIES AND LIMITATIONS- Section 108(b) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1518(b)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(b)(1) The cost limitations contained in this subsection shall apply
 separately to the funds allocated for programs under part A of title II,
 and to the funds allocated for programs under part C of such title.
 `(2) Funds expended under parts A and C of title II shall be charged to
 one of the following categories:
 `(A) Administration.
 `(B) Training-related and supportive services.
 `(C) Direct training services.
 `(3) The Secretary shall, consistent with sections 204(b) and 264(c),
 define by regulation the cost categories specified in paragraph (2).
 `(4) Of the funds allocated to a service delivery area for any program year
 under parts A or C of title II--
 `(A) not more than 20 percent shall be expended for administration; and
 `(B) not less than 50 percent shall be expended for direct training services.
 `(5) Each service delivery area shall ensure that for all services provided to
 participants through contracts, grants, or other agreements with a service
 provider, such contract, grant, or agreement shall include appropriate
 amounts necessary for administration and supportive services.
 `(6) For purposes of paragraph (4), the term `allocated' means allocated
 for a program year, as adjusted for reallocations and reallotments under
 section 109 and for transfers of funds under sections 206, 256, and 266.'.
 (c) REFERENCE TO LIMITATIONS- Section 108(c) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1518(c))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) Funds available under title III shall be expended in accordance with
 the limitations specified in section 315.'.
SEC. 118. RECAPTURE AND REALLOTMENT OF UNOBLIGATED FUNDS UNDER TITLE II.
 Part A of title I of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1511 et seq.) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new section:
`RECAPTURE AND REALLOTMENT OF UNOBLIGATED FUNDS
 `SEC. 109. (a) WITHIN STATE REALLOCATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For program years beginning on or after July 1, 1993, the
 Governor shall, in accordance with the requirements of this subsection,
 reallocate to eligible service delivery areas within the State funds
 appropriated for such program year that are available for reallocation.
 `(2) AMOUNT- The amount available for reallocation is equal to the amount
 by which the unobligated balance of the service delivery area allocation
 under part A or C of title II for all service delivery areas within the
 State at the end of the program year prior to the program year for which
 the determination under this subsection is made exceeds 15 percent of such
 allocation for the prior program year.
 `(3) REALLOCATION- The Governor shall reallocate the amounts available
 pursuant to paragraph (2) to eligible service delivery areas within the
 State that have the highest rates of unemployment for an extended period
 of time and to those with the highest poverty rates.
 `(4) ELIGIBILITY- For purposes of this subsection, an eligible service
 delivery area means a service delivery area that has obligated at least
 85 percent of its allocation under part A or C of title II, respectively,
 for the program year prior to the program year for which the determination
 under this subsection is made.
 `(b) REALLOTMENT AMONG STATES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For program years beginning on or after July 1, 1993, the
 Secretary shall, in accordance with the requirements of this subsection,
 reallot to eligible States funds appropriated for such program year that
 are available for reallotment.
 `(2) AMOUNT- The amount available for reallotment is equal to the amount
 by which the unobligated balance of the State allotment under part A or C
 of title II, respectively, for all States at the end of the program year
 prior to the program year for which the determination under this subsection
 is made exceeds 15 percent of such allotment for that prior program year.
 `(3) REALLOTMENT- The Secretary shall reallot the amounts available pursuant
 to paragraph (2) to each eligible State an amount based on the relative
 amount allotted to such eligible State under part A or C of title II,
 respectively, for the program year the determination under this subsection
 is made compared to the total amount allotted to all eligible States under
 part A or C of title II, respectively, for such program year.
 `(4) ELIGIBILITY- For purposes of this subsection, an eligible State means
 a State that has obligated at least 85 percent of its allocation under part
 A or C of title II, respectively, for the program year prior to the program
 year for which the determination under this subsection is made.
 `(5) PROCEDURES- The Governor of each State shall prescribe uniform
 procedures for the obligation of funds by service delivery areas within
 the State in order to avoid the requirement that funds be made available
 for reallotment under this subsection. The Governor shall further prescribe
 equitable procedures for making funds available from the State and service
 delivery areas in the event that a State is required to make funds available
 for reallotment under this subsection.
 `(d) CALCULATION- Funds obligated to carry out programs under section 204(d)
 shall not be counted in determining the amount available for reallocation
 under subsection (a)(2) or the amount available for reallotment under
 subsection (b)(2).'.
Subtitle C--Additional State Responsibilities
SEC. 121. GOVERNOR'S COORDINATION AND SPECIAL SERVICES PLAN.
 (a) REQUIREMENTS FOR PLAN- Section 121(b) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1531(b))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
 `(2) The plan shall describe the measures taken by the State to ensure
 coordination and avoid duplication between the State agencies administering
 the JOBS program and programs under title II in the planning and delivery of
 services. The plan shall describe the procedures developed by the State to
 ensure that the State JOBS plan is consistent with the coordination criteria
 specified in this plan and identify the procedures developed to provide for
 the review of the JOBS plan by the State Job Training Coordinating Council.';
 (2) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) as paragraphs (4),
 (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting the following new paragraph after paragraph (2):
 `(3) The plan shall describe the projected use of resources, including
 oversight of program performance, program administration, and program
 financial management, capacity building, priorities and criteria for State
 incentive grants, and performance goals for State-supported programs. The
 description of capacity building shall include the Governor's plans for
 technical assistance to service delivery areas and service providers,
 interstate technical assistance and training arrangements, other coordinated
 technical assistance arrangements undertaken pursuant to the direction of
 the Secretary, and, where applicable, research and demonstration projects.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 121(c) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1531(c))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (7), by inserting after the paragraph designation the
 following: `coordination of activities relating to part A of title II with';
 (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (10);
 (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (11) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(12) making available to service delivery areas appropriate information
 and technical assistance to assist in developing and implementing joint
 programs, including youth corps programs, in which activities supported
 under this Act are coordinated with activities supported under the National
 and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.).'.
SEC. 122. STATE EDUCATION COORDINATION AND GRANTS.
 Section 123 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1533) is amended to read as follows:
`STATE EDUCATION COORDINATION AND GRANTS
 `SEC. 123. (a) ALLOTMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall allot to the Governor for allocation to
 any State education agency the sums made available to carry out this section
 under sections 202(c)(1)(C) and 262(c)(1)(C) to pay for the Federal share of
 carrying out the projects described in paragraph (2). In allocating such funds
 to the State education agency, the Governor shall not establish requirements
 governing the geographic distribution of funds under this section.
 `(2) PROJECTS- Funds allocated under paragraph (1) may be used to pay for
 the Federal share of carrying out projects (in accordance with agreements
 under subsection (b)) that--
 `(A) provide school-to-work transition services of demonstrated effectiveness
 that increase the rate of graduation from high school, or completion of the
 recognized equivalent thereof, including services that increase the rate at
 which school dropouts return to regular or alternative schooling and obtain
 a high school degree or its equivalent, and, which may include, services to
 support multiyear dropout prevention programs of demonstrated effectiveness;
 `(B) provide literacy and lifelong learning opportunities and services of
 demonstrated effectiveness that--
 `(i) enhance the knowledge and skills of educationally and economically
 disadvantaged individuals; and
 `(ii) result in increasing the employment and earnings of such individuals;
 `(C) provide statewide coordinated approaches, including model programs,
 to train, place, and retain women in nontraditional employment; and
 `(D)(i) facilitate coordination of education and training services for
 eligible participants in projects described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and
 (C); or
 `(ii)(I) support activities pertaining to a State human resources investment
 council that meets the requirements of title VII and includes each of the
 programs described in clauses (i) through (vii) of section 701(b)(2)(A); or
 `(II) support activities pertaining to a State council, which carries out
 functions similar to the functions of the State human resource investment
 council described in title VII, if such State council was established prior
 to July 1, 1992.
 `(3) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of the cost of carrying out the
 projects described in paragraph (2) shall be 50 percent.
 `(b) AGREEMENTS REQUIRED-
 `(1) PARTIES TO AGREEMENTS- The projects described in subsection (a)(2)
 shall be conducted within a State in accordance with agreements that--
 `(A) reflect the goals and services described in paragraphs (1), (2), and
 (3) of subsection (c); and
 `(B) are developed between the State education agency, administrative entities
 in service delivery areas in the State, and other entities, such as other
 State agencies, local educational agencies, and alternative service providers
 (such as community-based and other nonprofit or for-profit organizations).
 `(2) CONTENTS OF AGREEMENTS-
 `(A) CONTRIBUTION- The agreements described in paragraph (1) shall provide
 for the contribution by the State, from funds other than the funds made
 available under this Act, of a total amount equal to the funds allotted
 under this section.
 `(B) DIRECT COST OF SERVICES- Such amount may include the direct cost of
 employment or training services--
 `(i) provided by State or local programs or agencies; or
 `(ii) provided by other Federal programs or agencies in accordance with
 applicable Federal law.
 `(c) GOVERNOR'S PLAN REQUIREMENTS- The State education agency shall submit
 for inclusion in the Governor's coordination and special services plan
 a description developed jointly by the State education agency and the
 Governor of--
 `(1) the goals to be achieved and services to be provided by the
 school-to-work transition programs specified in subsection (a)(2)(A)
 that will receive the assistance, which description shall, at a minimum,
 include information regarding--
 `(A) the activities and services that will result in increasing the number
 of youth staying in or returning to school and graduating from high school
 or the equivalent;
 `(B) the work-based curriculum that will link classroom learning to work
 site experience and address the practical and theoretical aspects of work;
 `(C) the opportunities that will be made available to participants to obtain
 career-path employment and postsecondary education;
 `(D) the integration to be achieved, in appropriate circumstances, in
 the delivery of services between State and local educational agencies
 and alternative service providers, such as community-based and nonprofit
 organizations; and
 `(E) the linkages that will be established, where feasible, to avoid
 duplication and enhance the delivery of services, with programs under--
 `(i) title II and part B of title IV;
 `(ii) the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.);
 `(iii) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
 `(iv) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400
 et seq.);
 `(v) the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.);
 `(vi) the JOBS program;
 `(vii) the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 100-77;
 101 Stat. 482); and
 `(viii) the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501
 et seq.);
 `(2) the goals to be achieved and services to be provided by literacy and
 lifelong learning programs specified in subsection (a)(2)(B) that will
 receive the assistance, which description shall, at a minimum, include
 information regarding--
 `(A) the activities and services that will increase the knowledge and skills
 of educationally and economically disadvantaged individuals, and result in
 increased employment and earnings for such individuals;
 `(B) the integration to be achieved between projects assisted under this
 section and the 4-year State plan (and related needs assessment carried
 out for the plan) developed in accordance with section 342 of the Adult
 Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1206a);
 `(C) the variety of settings, including workplace settings, in which literacy
 training and learning opportunities will be provided; and
 `(D) the linkages that will be established, where feasible, to avoid
 duplication and enhance the delivery of services, with programs under--
 `(i) titles II and III;
 `(ii) the Adult Education Act;
 `(iii) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act;
 `(iv) the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act;
 `(v) the JOBS program;
 `(vi) the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.);
 `(vii) the National Literacy Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-73);
 `(viii) the Emergency Immigrant Education Act of 1984 (20 U.S.C. 3121 et
 seq.); and
 `(ix) the National and Community Service Act of 1990;
 `(3) the goals to be achieved and services to be provided by the
 nontraditional employment for women programs specified in subsection
 (a)(2)(C) that will receive the assistance; and
 `(4) the proportion of funds received under this section that will be used
 to achieve the goals, and provide the services, described in paragraphs (1),
 (2), and (3).
 `(d) SERVICE REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) PERMITTED SERVICES- Services funded under this section to carry out the
 projects described in subsection (a)(2) may include education and training,
 vocational education services, and related services, provided to participants
 under title II. In addition, services funded under this section may include
 services for offenders, veterans, and other individuals who the Governor
 determines require special assistance.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS ON EXPENDITURES-
 `(A) COORDINATION OF SERVICES- Not more than 20 percent of the funds allocated
 under this section may be expended to pay for the Federal share of projects
 described in subsection (a)(2)(D) at the State and local levels.
 `(B) SCHOOL-TO-WORK SERVICES; LITERACY AND LIFELONG LEARNING SERVICES-
 Not less than 80 percent of the funds allocated under this section shall be
 expended to pay for the Federal share of projects conducted in accordance
 with subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of subsection (a)(2).
 `(C) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS- Not less than 75 percent
 of the funds allocated for projects under subparagraphs (A), (B), and
 (C) of subsection (a)(2) shall be expended for projects for economically
 disadvantaged individuals who experience barriers to employment. Priority
 for funds not expended for the economically disadvantaged shall be given
 to title III participants and persons with barriers to employment.
 `(e) DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS IN ABSENCE OF AGREEMENT- If no agreement is reached
 in accordance with subsection (b) on the use of funds under this section,
 the funds shall be available to the Governor to achieve the goals and provide
 the services described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (c).
 `(f) REPORTS AND RECORDS-
 `(1) REPORTS BY GOVERNORS- The Governor shall prepare reports on the projects
 funded under this section, including such information as the Secretary
 may require to determine the extent to which the projects supported under
 this section result in achieving the goals specified in paragraphs (1),
 (2), and (3) of subsection (c). The Governor shall submit the reports to
 the Secretary at such intervals as shall be determined by the Secretary.
 `(2) RECORDS AND REPORTS OF RECIPIENTS- Each direct or indirect recipient of
 funds under this section shall keep records that are sufficient to permit
 the preparation of reports. Each recipient shall submit such reports to
 the Secretary, at such intervals as shall be determined by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 123. IDENTIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL IMPOSED REQUIREMENTS.
 Section 124 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1534) is amended to read as follows:
`IDENTIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL IMPOSED REQUIREMENTS
 `SEC. 124. If a State or service delivery area imposes a requirement,
 including a rule, regulation, policy, or performance standard, relating to
 the administration and operation of programs funded by this Act (including
 requirements based on State or service delivery area interpretation of any
 Federal law, regulation, or guideline) the State or area shall identify
 the requirement as a State- or service delivery area-imposed requirement.'.
SEC. 124. STATE LABOR MARKET INFORMATION PROGRAMS.
 Section 125(a) of the Act is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (4);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) provide training and technical assistance to support comprehensive
 career guidance and participant activities for local programs assisted
 under this Act.'.
Subtitle D--Program Requirements for Service Delivery System
SEC. 131. GENERAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) RELOCATION- Section 141(c) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(c)) is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(c)(1) No funds provided under this Act shall be used or proposed for use
 to encourage or induce the relocation, of an establishment or part thereof,
 that results in a loss of employment for any employee of such establishment
 at the original location.
 `(2) No funds provided under this Act shall be used for customized or
 skill training, on-the-job training, or company specific assessments of
 job applicants or employees, for any establishment or part thereof, that
 has relocated, until 120 days after the date on which such establishment
 commences operations at the new location, if the relocation of such
 establishment or part thereof, results in a loss of employment for any
 employee of such establishment at the original location.
 `(3) If a violation of paragraph (1) or (2) is alleged, the Secretary shall
 conduct an investigation to determine whether a violation has occurred.
 `(4) If the Secretary determines that a violation of paragraph (1) or (2)
 has occurred, the Secretary shall require the State, service delivery area,
 or substate grantee that has violated paragraph (1) or (2) to--
 `(A) repay to the United States an amount equal to the amount expended in
 violation of paragraph (1) or (2), in accordance with subsection (d) or
 (e) of section 164; and
 `(B) pay an additional amount equal to the amount required to be repaid
 under subparagraph (A), unless the State, service delivery area, or substate
 grantee demonstrates to the Secretary that it neither knew nor reasonably
 could have known (after an inquiry undertaken with due diligence) that it
 provided funds in violation of paragraph (1) or (2).
 `(5) Amounts received under paragraph (4)(B) shall be deposited in a special
 account in the Treasury for use by the Secretary for carrying out title III.'.
 (b) CHARGING OF COSTS- Section 141(d)(3) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(d)(3))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(A)' after the paragraph (3) designation; and
 (2) by inserting the following new subparagraphs:
 `(B) Tuition charges for training or education provided by an institution of
 higher education (as defined in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act
 of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a))) or a proprietary institution of higher education
 (as defined in section 481(b) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1088(b))), that are
 not more than the charges for such training or education made available to
 the general public, do not require a breakdown of cost components.
 `(C) With respect to funds provided from the allocation to a service
 delivery area for any program year that are expended by any community-based
 organization or nonprofit organization for the cost of administration under
 part A or C of title II, the service delivery area shall not be subject to
 the limitation contained in section 108(b)(4)(A) if--
 `(i) such funds are expended pursuant to an agreement under which not less
 than 90 percent of the funds provided to the community-based organization or
 nonprofit organization are to be expended for the costs of direct training
 and training-related and supportive services;
 `(ii) the expenditures of such funds are charged by the service delivery
 area to the appropriate cost category;
 `(iii) the expenditure of such funds does not result in the service delivery
 area exceeding the limitation contained in section 108(b)(4)(A) by more
 than 25 percent of such limitation; and
 `(iv) the service delivery area is in compliance with the limitation contained
 in section 108(b)(4)(B) for such program year, except that such limitation
 shall be reduced by a percentage equal to one-half of the percentage by
 which the expenditures of the service delivery area under this subparagraph
 exceed the limitation under section 108(b)(4)(A).'.
 (c) PLACEMENT- Section 141(d) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(d)) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) Placements made in unsubsidized employment shall be, to the extent
 practicable, in occupational areas related to the training provided to
 the participant.'.
 (d) SERVICE DELIVERY AREA AGREEMENTS- Section 141(e) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1551(e)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(e)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) Any service delivery area may enter into an agreement or contract with
 another service delivery area (including a service delivery area that is
 a city or county within the same labor market) to pay or share the cost
 of educating, training, or placing individuals participating in programs
 assisted under this Act, including the provision of supportive services. Such
 agreement or contract shall be approved by each private industry council
 providing guidance to the service delivery area and shall be described in
 the job training plan under section 104.'.
 (e) ON-THE-JOB TRAINING- Section 141(g) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(g))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(g)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) On-the-job training authorized under the Act for a participant shall be
 limited in duration to a period not in excess of that generally required for
 acquisition of skills needed for the position within a particular occupation,
 but in no event shall exceed 6 months, unless the total number of hours of
 such training is less than 500 hours. In determining the period generally
 required for acquisition of the skills, consideration shall be given
 to recognized reference material (such as the Dictionary of Occupational
 Titles), the content of the training of the participant, the prior work
 experience of the participant, and the service strategy of the participant.
 `(3)(A) Each on-the-job training contract shall--
 `(i) specify the types and duration of on-the-job training and the other
 services to be provided in sufficient detail to allow for a fair analysis
 of the reasonableness of proposed costs; and
 `(ii) comply with the applicable requirements of section 164.
 `(B) Each on-the-job training contract that is not directly contracted
 by a service delivery area with an employer (but instead is contracted
 through an intermediary brokering contractor) shall, in addition to meeting
 the requirements of subparagraph (A), specify the outreach, recruitment,
 participant training, counseling, placement, monitoring, followup, and other
 services to be provided directly by the brokering contractor within its own
 organization, the services to be provided by the employers conducting the
 on-the-job training, and the services to be provided, with or without cost,
 by other agencies and subcontractors.
 `(C) If a brokering contractor enters into a contract with a subcontractor to
 provide training or other services, the brokering contractor shall ensure,
 through on-site monitoring, compliance with subcontract terms prior to
 making payment to the subcontractor.
 `(4) In accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary, on-the-job
 training contracts under this Act shall not be entered into with employers
 who have received payments under previous contracts and have exhibited a
 pattern of failing to provide on-the-job training participants with continued
 long-term employment as regular employees with wages and employment benefits
 (including health benefits) and working conditions at the same level and
 to the same extent as other employees working a similar length of time and
 doing the same type of work.'.
 (f) TRAINING SERVICES REQUIREMENT FOR SUBSIDIZED EMPLOYMENT- Section 141(k)
 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(k)) is amended by striking `section 205(d)(3)(B)'
 and inserting `subparagraphs (F) and (H) of section 264(c)(1)'.
 (g) PROGRAM INCOME- Section 141(m) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(m)) is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(m)(1) Income under any program administered by a public or private
 nonprofit entity may be retained by such entity only if used to continue
 to carry out the program.
 `(2) Income subject to the requirements of paragraph (1) shall include--
 `(A) receipts from goods or services (including conferences) provided as
 a result of activities funded under the Act;
 `(B) funds provided to a service provider under the Act that are in excess
 of the costs associated with the services provided; and
 `(C) interest income earned on funds received under this Act.
 `(3) For the purposes of this subsection, each entity receiving financial
 assistance under this Act shall maintain records sufficient to determine
 the amount of income received and the purposes for which such income is
 expended.'.
 (h) CROSS REFERENCE- Section 141(p) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1551(p)) is amended
 by striking `part A of title II' and inserting `part A or C of title II'.
 (i) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS- Section 141 of the Act is further amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(q) No funds available under this Act shall be used for employment generating
 activities, economic development activities, investment in revolving loan
 funds, capitalization of businesses, investment in contract bidding resource
 centers, and similar activities. No funds under title II or III of this
 Act shall be used for foreign travel.
 `(r) The Federal requirements governing the title, use, and disposition of
 real property, equipment, and supplies purchased with funds provided under
 this Act shall be the Federal requirements generally applicable to Federal
 grants to States and local governments.'.
SEC. 132. BENEFITS.
 Section 142 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1552) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) References in paragraphs (2) and (3) to section 6(a)(1) of the Fair
 Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 206(a)(1))--
 `(A) shall be deemed to be references to section 6(c) of that Act for
 individuals in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
 `(B) shall be deemed to be references to section 6(a)(3) of that Act for
 individuals in American Samoa; and
 `(C) shall not be applicable for individuals in other territorial
 jurisdictions in which section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
 does not apply.'; and
 (2) in subsection (b), by striking `other than programs' and inserting
 `other than as provided'.
SEC. 133. LABOR STANDARDS.
 Section 143(b)(2) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1553(b)(2)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(2) No program under this Act shall impair--
 `(A) existing contracts for services; or
 `(B) existing collective bargaining agreements, unless the employer and
 the labor organization concur in writing with respect to any elements of
 the proposed activities which affect such agreement, or either such party
 fails to respond to written notification requesting its concurrence within
 30 days of receipt thereof.'.
SEC. 134. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 144 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1554) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsections:
 `(d)(1) If a person alleges a violation of section 143 and such person
 exhausts the recipient's grievance procedure or the 60-day time period
 described in subsection (a) has elapsed without a decision, either party
 to such procedure may submit the grievance to the Secretary. The Secretary
 shall investigate the allegations contained in the grievance and make a
 determination as to whether a violation of section 143 has occurred.
 `(2) If the results of the investigation conducted pursuant to paragraph (1)
 indicate that a modification or reversal of the decision issued pursuant
 to the recipient's grievance procedure is warranted, or the 60-day time
 period described in subsection (a) has elapsed without a decision, the
 Secretary may modify or reverse the decision, or issue a decision if no
 decision has been issued, as the case may be, after an opportunity for a
 hearing in accordance with the procedures under section 166.
 `(3) If the Secretary determines that the decision issued pursuant to the
 recipient's grievance procedure is appropriate, the determination shall
 become the final decision of the Secretary.
 `(e)(1) A person alleging a violation of section 143 may, as an alternative
 to the procedures described in this section, submit the grievance involving
 such violation to a binding grievance procedure if a collective bargaining
 agreement covering the parties to the grievance so provides.
 `(2) The remedies available under paragraph (1) shall be limited to the
 remedies available under subsection (f)(1)(C) and subsection (f)(2).
 `(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), remedies available to grievants
 under this section for violations of section 143 shall be limited to--
 `(A) suspension or termination of payments under this Act;
 `(B) prohibition of placement of a participant, for an appropriate period
 of time, in a program under this Act with an employer that has violated
 section 143, as determined under subsection (d) or (e); and
 `(C) appropriate equitable relief (other than back pay).
 `(2) In addition to the remedies available under paragraph (1), remedies
 available under this section for violations of subsection (a)(4), paragraphs
 (1) and (3) of subsection (b), and subsection (d) of section 143 may include--
 `(A) reinstatement of the grievant to the position held by such grievant
 prior to displacement;
 `(B) payment of lost wages and benefits; and
 `(C) reestablishment of other relevant terms, conditions, and privileges
 of employment.
 `(g) Nothing in subsection (f) shall be construed to prohibit a grievant
 from pursuing a remedy authorized under another Federal, State, or local
 law for a violation of section 143.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 166(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1576(a))
 is amended in the 3rd sentence by inserting `section 141(c), subsections
 (d) and (e) of section 144, or' after `Except to the extent provided for in'.
Subtitle E--Federal and Fiscal Administrative Provisions
SEC. 141. PROMPT ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
 Section 162 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1572) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subsection:
 `(f) When contracting with nonprofit organizations of demonstrated
 effectiveness, the Secretary, States, substate areas, and service delivery
 areas may make advance payments, provided that such payments are based on
 the financial need of such organization and are not in excess of 20 percent
 of the total contract amount.'.
SEC. 142. FISCAL CONTROLS; SANCTIONS.
 (a) FISCAL CONTROLS- Section 164(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1579(a)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(a)(1) Each State shall establish such fiscal control and fund accounting
 procedures as may be necessary to assure the proper disbursal of, and
 accounting for, Federal funds paid to the recipient under titles II and
 III. Such procedures shall ensure that all financial transactions are
 conducted and records maintained in accordance with generally accepted
 accounting principles applicable in each State.
 `(2) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations establishing uniform cost
 principles substantially equivalent to such principles generally applicable
 to recipients of Federal grants funds. At a minimum, such standards shall
 provide that, to be allowable, costs must--
 `(A) be necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient administration
 of the program under this Act;
 `(B) be allocable to the program under this Act; and
 `(C) not be a general expense required to carry out the overall
 responsibilities of State, local, or federally recognized Indian tribal
 governments except as specifically provided by this Act.
 `(3) The Governor, in accordance with minimum requirements established by
 the Secretary in regulations, shall prescribe and implement procurement
 standards to ensure fiscal accountability and prevent fraud and abuse in
 programs administered under this Act. The Secretary, in establishing such
 minimum requirements, shall consult with the Inspector General of the
 Department of Labor and take into consideration relevant aspects of the
 circulars issued by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Such
 minimum requirements shall include provisions to ensure that for States,
 substate areas, and service delivery areas--
 `(A) procurements shall be conducted in a manner providing full and open
 competition;
 `(B) the use of sole source procurements shall be minimized to the extent
 practicable, but in every case shall be justified;
 `(C) procurements shall include an appropriate analysis of the reasonableness
 of costs and prices;
 `(D) procurements shall not provide excess program income (for nonprofit and
 governmental entities) or excess profit (for private for-profit entities),
 and that appropriate factors shall be utilized in determining whether such
 income or profit is excessive, such as--
 `(i) the complexity of the work to be performed;
 `(ii) the risk borne by the contractor; and
 `(iii) market conditions in the surrounding geographical area;
 `(E) procurements shall clearly specify deliverables and the basis for
 payment;
 `(F) written procedures shall be established for procurement transactions;
 `(G) no grantee, contractor, subgrantee, or subcontractor shall engage
 in any conflict of interest, actual or apparent, in the selection, award,
 or administration of a contract or grant under this Act;
 `(H) all grantees and subgrantees shall conduct oversight to ensure compliance
 with procurement standards; and
 `(I) procurement transactions between units of State or local governments,
 and any other entities organized principally as the administrative entity
 for service delivery areas, shall be conducted on a cost reimbursable basis.
 `(4) The Governor shall annually conduct on-site monitoring of each service
 delivery area and substate area within the State to ensure compliance with
 the procurement standards established pursuant to paragraph (3).
 `(5) If the Governor determines that a service delivery area or substate
 area is not in compliance with the procurement standards established pursuant
 to paragraph (3), the Governor shall--
 `(A) require corrective action to secure prompt compliance; and
 `(B) impose the sanctions provided under subsection (b) in the event of
 failure to take the required corrective action.
 `(6) The Governor shall biennially certify to the Secretary that--
 `(A) the State has implemented the procurement standards established under
 paragraph (3);
 `(B) the State has monitored substate areas and service delivery areas to
 ensure compliance with the procurement standards as required under paragraph
 (4); and
 `(C) the State has taken appropriate action to secure compliance pursuant
 to paragraph (5).
 `(7) If the Secretary determines that the Governor has not fulfilled the
 requirements of this subsection, the Secretary shall--
 `(A) require corrective action to secure prompt compliance; and
 `(B) impose the sanctions provided under subsection (f) in the event of
 failure of the Governor to take the required corrective action.
 `(8) The Secretary, in consultation with the Inspector General, shall review
 the implementation of this subsection and submit a report to the appropriate
 committees of the Congress, not later than October 1, 1995, evaluating
 the effectiveness of this subsection in ensuring fiscal accountability
 and containing such recommendations as the Secretary determines to be
 appropriate.'.
 (b) CONSEQUENCES OF FAILURES- Section 164(b) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1574(b))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b)(1) If, as a result of financial and compliance audits or otherwise,
 the Governor determines that there is a substantial violation of a specific
 provision of this Act or the regulations under this Act, and corrective
 action has not been taken, the Governor shall--
 `(A) issue a notice of intent to revoke approval of all or part of the plan
 affected; or
 `(B) impose a reorganization plan, which may include--
 `(i) restructuring the private industry council involved;
 `(ii) prohibiting the use of designated service providers;
 `(iii) selecting an alternative entity to administer the program for the
 service delivery area involved;
 `(iv) merging the service delivery area into 1 or more other existing
 service delivery areas; or
 `(v) other such changes as the Secretary or Governor determines necessary
 to secure compliance.
 `(2)(A) The actions taken by the Governor pursuant to paragraph (1)(A)
 may be appealed to the Secretary under the same terms and conditions as
 the disapproval of the plan and shall not become effective until--
 `(i) the time for appeal has expired; or
 `(ii) the Secretary has issued a decision.
 `(B) The actions taken by the Governor pursuant to paragraph (1)(B) may be
 appealed to the Secretary, who shall make a final decision not later than
 60 days of the receipt of the appeal.
 `(3) If the Governor fails to promptly take the actions required under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall take such actions.'.
SEC. 143. REPORTS, RECORDKEEPING, AND INVESTIGATIONS.
 (a) STANDARDIZED RECORDS- Section 165(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1575(a))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(3) In order to allow for the preparation of national estimates necessary
 to meet the requirements of subsection (c), recipients shall maintain
 standardized records for all individual participants and provide to the
 Secretary a sufficient number of such records to provide for an adequate
 analysis.
 `(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), records maintained by
 recipients pursuant to this subsection shall be made available to the public
 upon request.
 `(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to--
 `(i) information, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly
 unwarranted invasion of personal privacy; and
 `(ii) trade secrets, or commercial or financial information, obtained from
 a person and privileged or confidential.
 `(C) Recipients may charge fees sufficient to recover costs applicable to
 the processing of requests for records under subparagraph (A).'.
 (b) AUDIT NOTICE- Section 165(b) is amended by adding the following new
 paragraph:
 `(3)(A) In carrying out any audit under this Act (other than any initial
 audit survey or any audit investigating possible criminal or fraudulent
 conduct), either directly or through grant or contract, the Secretary, the
 Inspector General, or the Comptroller General shall furnish to the State,
 administrative entity, recipient, or other entity to be audited, advance
 notification of the overall objectives and purposes of the audit, and any
 extensive recordkeeping or data requirements to be met, not fewer than 14
 days (or as soon as practicable), prior to the commencement of the audit.
 `(B) If the scope, objectives, or purposes of the audit change substantially
 during the course of the audit, the entity being audited shall be notified
 of the change as soon as practicable.
 `(C) The reports on the results of such audits shall cite the law, regulation,
 policy, or other criteria applicable to any finding.
 `(D) Nothing contained in this Act shall be construed so as to be inconsistent
 with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) or government auditing
 standards issued by the Comptroller General.'.
 (c) MONITORING OF SERVICE PROVIDERS- Section 165(c) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1575(c)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) Each State, each administrative entity, and each recipient (other than
 a subrecipient, grantee or contractor of a recipient) receiving funds under
 this Act shall--
 `(1) make readily accessible reports concerning its operations and
 expenditures as shall be prescribed by the Secretary;
 `(2) prescribe and maintain comparable management information systems,
 in accordance with guidelines that shall be prescribed by the Secretary,
 designed to facilitate the uniform compilation, cross tabulation, and
 analysis of programmatic, participant, and financial data, on statewide
 and service delivery area bases, necessary for reporting, monitoring, and
 evaluating purposes, including data necessary to comply with section 167; and
 `(3) monitor the performance of service providers in complying with the
 terms of grants, contracts, or other agreements made pursuant to this Act.'.
 (d) REPORT INFORMATION; RECORD RETENTION- Section 165 of the Act is further
 amended by adding the following new subsections:
 `(d)(1) The reports required in subsection (c) shall include information
 pertaining to--
 `(A) the relevant demographic characteristics (including race, ethnicity,
 sex, and age) and other related information regarding participants;
 `(B) the activities in which participants are enrolled, and the length of
 time that participants are engaged in such activities;
 `(C) program outcomes, including occupations, for participants;
 `(D) specified program costs; and
 `(E) information necessary to prepare reports to comply with section 167.
 `(2) The Secretary shall ensure that all elements of the information required
 for the reports described in paragraph (1) are defined and reported uniformly.
 `(e) The Governor shall ensure that requirements are established for
 retention of all records pertinent to all grants awarded, and contracts and
 agreements entered into, under this Act, including financial, statistical,
 property and participant records and supporting documentation. For funds
 allotted to a State for any program year, records shall be retained for 2
 years following the date on which the annual expenditure report containing
 the final expenditures charged to such program year's allotment is submitted
 to the Secretary. Records for nonexpendable property shall be retained for
 a period of 3 years after final disposition of the property.
 `(f)(1) Each substate grantee and service delivery area shall submit
 quarterly financial reports to the Governor with respect to programs under
 this Act. Such reports shall include information identifying all program
 costs by cost category in accordance with generally accepted accounting
 principles and by year of the appropriation.
 `(2) Each State shall submit a summary of the reports submitted pursuant
 to paragraph (1) to the Secretary on a quarterly basis.
 `(g) Each State, substate grantee, and service delivery area shall  maintain
 records with respect to programs under this Act that identify--
 `(1) any program income or profits earned, including such income or profits
 earned by subrecipients; and
 `(2) any costs incurred (such as stand-in costs) that are otherwise allowable
 except for funding limitations.
 `(h)(1) The Secretary shall conduct a biennial study on the provision of
 supportive services under programs conducted pursuant to title II. Such
 study shall identify--
 `(A) the amount and proportion of funds expended for supportive services
 under title II;
 `(B) the types of supportive services provided;
 `(C) the relative share of funds expended for each type of supportive service;
 `(D) the characteristics of the participants receiving supportive services;
 and
 `(E) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(2) The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress containing the
 results of each study conducted pursuant to paragraph (1).'.
SEC. 144. NONDISCRIMINATION.
 Section 167 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1577) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subsections:
 `(e)(1) The head of the office of the Department of Labor referred to as
 the `Directorate for Civil Rights' shall annually prepare a report on the
 administration and enforcement of this section.
 `(2) The report required by paragraph (1) shall include--
 `(A) an identification of the service delivery areas and States that have
 been determined, during the preceding program year, not to be in compliance
 with this section;
 `(B) for each such identification, the date on which the inquiry was begun
 and whether the inquiry was initiated on the basis of a complaint or at
 the initiative of the Department;
 `(C) an identification of the service delivery areas and States awaiting
 findings by the Directorate;
 `(D) the number of service delivery areas and States that, during the
 preceding year, were determined not to be in compliance with this section,
 and the number for which insufficient data prevented the making of such a
 determination, identifying the type of data which is missing or inadequate;
 `(E) a statistical summary, broken down by race, sex, national origin,
 disability, or age, of the number of inquiries undertaken and their outcomes;
 `(F) an identification of any service delivery area or State that has been
 determined, during the preceding year, to have failed to conduct objective
 assessments as required by sections 204 and 264 on a nondiscriminatory basis;
 `(G) the amount expended by the Directorate for the administration and
 enforcement of this section, and the number and percentage of full-time
 employees, and the full-time equivalent of the part-time employees, engaged
 in such administration and enforcement;
 `(H) the number of onsite visits conducted each year, and whether the visits
 were initiated by the Department or by complaint;
 `(I) the number of cases referred to the Attorney General, and for such
 cases--
 `(i) the civil actions taken by the Attorney General thereon; and
 `(ii) the use, by the Secretary, of the authority of title VI of the Civil
 Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq.), the Age Discrimination Act
 of 1975 (29 U.S.C. 621 et seq.), or section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act
 of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794); and
 `(J) a description of any other actions taken by the Secretary under or
 related to the administration and enforcement of this section.
 `(3) The report required by this subsection shall be submitted to the
 Congress as part of the Secretary's annual report under section 169(d).
 `(f) In addition to any other sums authorized to be appropriated under
 Federal law, there are authorized to be appropriated for the operations and
 expenses of the Directorate such sums as may be necessary for the purpose
 of increasing the number of full-time equivalent personnel available to
 the Directorate in order to comply with the requirements of this section.
 `(g) The Secretary shall issue final regulations implementing this section
 not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the Job Training
 Reform Amendments of 1992.'.
SEC. 145. UTILIZATION OF SERVICES AND FACILITIES.
 Section 170 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1580) is amended by striking `and to the
 extent' and inserting `under the same conditions applicable under section
 169(c) or to the extent'.
TITLE II--TRAINING SERVICES FOR THE DISADVANTAGED
SEC. 201. ADULT TRAINING PROGRAM.
 The Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended by striking title II and
 inserting the following:
`TITLE II--TRAINING SERVICES FOR THE DISADVANTAGED
`Part A--Adult Training Program
`SEC. 201. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this part to establish programs to prepare adults
 for participation in the labor force by increasing their occupational
 and educational skills, resulting in improved long-term employability,
 increased employment and earnings, and reduced welfare dependency.'.
SEC. 202. ADULT TRAINING PROGRAM ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by section 201) is further amended by adding
 at the end the following:
`SEC. 202. ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 `(a) ALLOTMENT-
 `(1) TERRITORIES- Of the amount appropriated under section 3(a)(1) for each
 fiscal year and available to carry out this part, not more than one-quarter of
 1 percent shall be allotted among Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of
 Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
 `(2) STATE RESERVATION- After determining the amounts to be allotted under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall allot 77 percent of the remainder to the
 States for allocation to service delivery areas within each State. Each
 State shall allocate to each service delivery area within the State the
 amount determined by the Secretary for such service delivery area pursuant
 to the formula contained in subsection (b). The remaining 23 percent shall
 be allotted in accordance with subsection (c).
 `(b) ALLOCATION TO SERVICE DELIVERY AREAS-
 `(1) FORMULA- Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), of the amounts
 allocated to service delivery areas for this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment
 within each service delivery area as compared to the total number of such
 unemployed individuals in all such areas of substantial unemployment in
 all service delivery areas in all States;
 `(B) 33 1/3   percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative
 excess number of unemployed individuals within each service delivery area
 as compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all
 service delivery areas in all States; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged adults within each service delivery area as
 compared to the total number of economically disadvantaged adults in all
 service delivery areas in all States, except that for any service delivery
 area described in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii), the allocation shall be based
 on the higher of the number of adults in families with an income below the
 low-income level in such area or the number of economically disadvantaged
 adults in such area.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area shall be allocated less
 than 90 percent of its allocation percentage for the fiscal year preceding
 the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
 `(B) MAXIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area shall be allocated more
 than 130 percent of its allocation percentage for the fiscal year preceding
 the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
 `(C) STATE MINIMUM- Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the total
 allocation for all service delivery areas within any one State shall not
 be less than one-quarter of 1 percent of the total allocated to all service
 delivery areas in all States.
 `(D) ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraphs (A) and (B), the allocation percentage of a service delivery
 area for a fiscal year shall be the percentage of funds allocated to the
 service delivery area under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the
 allocation percentage of a service delivery area for fiscal year 1992 shall
 be the percentage of funds allocated to the service delivery area under
 part A of title II.
 `(c) STATE ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) DIVISION- Of the remaining 23 percent of funds available for allotment
 to States under this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 5 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2), for overall
 administration, management, and auditing activities relating to programs
 under this title and for activities described in sections 121 and 122;
 `(B) 5 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2), to provide
 incentive grants authorized under section 106(b)(7), in accordance with
 paragraph (3);
 `(C) 8 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2) to carry
 out section 123; and
 `(D) 5 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to carry out section 204(d).
 `(2) FORMULA FOR ALLOTMENT- The allotments to each State described in
 paragraph (1) shall be based on the relative amount of funds allocated
 to all service delivery areas within such State under subsection (b) as
 compared to the amount of funds allocated to all service delivery areas in
 all States under subsection (b).
 `(3) OTHER USES-
 `(A) CAPACITY BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Governor may use up
 to 33 percent of the amount allotted under paragraph (1)(B) for providing
 capacity building and technical assistance to service delivery areas and
 service providers. Such use of funds may include the development and training
 of service delivery area and service provider staff and the development of
 exemplary program activities.
 `(B) NONDUPLICATION AND COORDINATION- Funds used under subparagraph (A)--
 `(i) may not be used to duplicate the activities of the Capacity Building and
 Information and Dissemination Network established under section 453(b); and
 `(ii) shall, to the extent practicable, be used to coordinate the activities
 under subparagraph (A) with the activities of the Network under section
 453(b).
 `(d) DEFINITIONS AND RULE-
 `(1) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
 `(A) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED ADULT- The term `economically disadvantaged
 adult' means an individual who is age 22 through 72 and who has, or is
 a member of a family that has, received a total family income that, in
 relation to family size, was not in excess of the higher of--
 `(i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management
 and Budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the
 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)); or
 `(ii) 70 percent of the lower living standard income level.
 `(B) EXCESS NUMBER- The term `excess number' means, with respect to the
 excess number of unemployed individuals within a service delivery area,
 the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in excess
 of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in the service delivery area,
 or the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in areas of substantial
 unemployment in such service delivery area.
 `(C) STATE- The term `State' means any of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- For the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall,
 as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students
 and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of
 economically disadvantaged adults.'.
SEC. 203. ADULT TRAINING PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY AND SERVICES.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 203. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (c), an individual shall
 be eligible to participate in the program under this part only if such
 individual is--
 `(1) 22 years of age or older; and
 `(2) economically disadvantaged.
 `(b) HARD-TO-SERVE INDIVIDUALS- Not less than 65 percent of the participants
 in the program under this part, other than participants served under section
 204(d), in each service delivery area shall be individuals who are included
 in 1 or more of the following categories:
 `(1) Individuals who are basic skills deficient.
 `(2) Individuals who are school dropouts.
 `(3) Individuals who are recipients of cash welfare payments, including
 recipients under the JOBS program.
 `(4) Individuals who are offenders.
 `(5) Individuals with disabilities.
 `(6) Individuals who are homeless.
 `(7) Individuals who are in a category established under subsection (d).
 `(c) SPECIAL RULE- Not more than 10 percent of participants in a program
 assisted under this part, other than participants served under section 204(d),
 in each service delivery area may be individuals who are not economically
 disadvantaged if such individuals are age 22 or older and within 1 or more
 categories of individuals who face serious barriers to employment. Such
 categories may include the categories described in subsection (b), or
 categories such as displaced homemakers, veterans, alcoholics, or addicts.
 `(d) ADDITIONAL CATEGORY- A service delivery area conducting a program
 assisted under this part may add one category of individuals who face
 serious barriers to employment to the categories of eligible individuals
 described in subsection (b) if--
 `(1) the service delivery area submits a request to the Governor identifying
 the additional category of individuals and justifying the inclusion of
 such category;
 `(2) the additional category of individuals is not solely comprised of--
 `(A) individuals with a poor work history; or
 `(B) individuals who are unemployed; and
 `(3) the Governor approves the request submitted under paragraph (1) and
 transmits a description of the approved request to the Secretary, as part
 of the Governor's coordination and special services plan under section 121.
`SEC. 204. PROGRAM DESIGN.
 `(a) ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The programs under this part shall include--
 `(A) an objective assessment of the skill levels and service needs of each
 participant, which shall include a review of basic skills, occupational
 skills, prior work experience, employability, interests, aptitudes (including
 interests and aptitudes for nontraditional jobs), and supportive service
 needs, except that a new assessment of a participant is not required if
 the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent assessment of the
 participant conducted pursuant to another education or training program
 (such as the JOBS program);
 `(B) development of service strategies that shall identify the employment
 goal (including, in appropriate circumstances, nontraditional employment),
 appropriate achievement objectives, and appropriate services for participants
 taking into account the assessments conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A),
 except that a new service strategy for a participant is not required if
 the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent service strategy
 developed for the participant under another education or training program
 (such as the JOBS program);
 `(C) a review of the progress of each participant in meeting the objectives
 of the service strategy; and
 `(D) each of the following services, which shall be provided either directly
 or through arrangement with other programs to a participant where the
 assessment and the service strategy indicate such services are appropriate:
 `(i) Basic skills training.
 `(ii) Occupational skills training.
 `(iii) Supportive services.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS-
 `(A) INFORMATION AND REFERRALS- Each service delivery area shall ensure
 that each participant or applicant who meets the minimum income eligibility
 criteria shall be provided--
 `(i) information on the full array of applicable or appropriate services that
 are available through the service delivery area or other service providers,
 including those receiving funds under this Act; and
 `(ii) referral to appropriate training and educational programs that have
 the capacity to serve the participant or applicant either on a sequential
 or concurrent basis.
 `(B) APPLICANTS NOT MEETING ENROLLMENT REQUIREMENTS-
 `(i) SERVICE PROVIDERS- Each service provider shall ensure that an eligible
 applicant who does not meet the enrollment requirements of its particular
 program or who cannot be served shall be referred to the service delivery
 area for further assessment, as necessary, and referral to appropriate
 programs in accordance with subparagraph (A) to meet the basic skills and
 training needs of the applicant.
 `(ii) SERVICE DELIVERY AREA- The service delivery area shall ensure that
 appropriate referrals are made pursuant to clause (i), and shall maintain
 appropriate records of such referrals and the basis for such referrals.
 `(b) AUTHORIZED SERVICES- Subject to the limitations contained in subsection
 (c), services that may be made available to each participant under this
 part may include--
 `(1) direct training services, including--
 `(A) basic skills training, including remedial education, literacy training,
 and English-as-a-second-language instruction;
 `(B) institutional skills training;
 `(C) on-the-job training;
 `(D) assessment of the skill levels and service needs of participants;
 `(E) counseling, such as job counseling and career counseling;
 `(F) case management services;
 `(G) education-to-work transition activities;
 `(H) programs that combine workplace training with related instruction;
 `(I) work experience;
 `(J) programs of advanced career training that provide a formal combination
 of on-the-job and institutional training and internship assignments that
 prepare individuals for career employment;
 `(K) training programs operated by the private sector, including programs
 operated by labor organizations or by consortia of private sector employers
 utilizing private sector facilities, equipment, and personnel to train
 workers in occupations for which demand exceeds supply;
 `(L) skill upgrading and retraining;
 `(M) bilingual training;
 `(N) entrepreneurial training;
 `(O) vocational exploration;
 `(P) training programs to develop work habits to help individuals obtain
 and retain employment;
 `(Q) attainment of certificates of high school equivalency;
 `(R) preapprenticeship programs;
 `(S) on-site, industry-specific training programs supportive of industrial
 and economic development;
 `(T) customized training conducted with a commitment by an employer or
 group of employers to employ an individual upon successful completion of
 the training; and
 `(U) use of advanced learning technology for education, job preparation,
 and skills training; and
 `(2) training-related and supportive services, including--
 `(A) job search assistance;
 `(B) outreach to make individuals aware of, and encourage the use of,
 employment and training services, including efforts to expand awareness
 of training and placement opportunities for limited-English proficient
 individuals and individuals with disabilities;
 `(C) outreach, to develop awareness of, and encourage participation in,
 education, training services, and work experience programs to assist women
 in obtaining nontraditional employment, and to facilitate the retention
 of women in nontraditional employment, including services at the site of
 training or employment;
 `(D) specialized surveys not available through other labor market information
 sources;
 `(E) dissemination of information on program activities to employers;
 `(F) development of job openings;
 `(G) programs coordinated with other Federal employment-related activities;
 `(H) supportive services, as defined in section 4(24), necessary to enable
 individuals to participate in the program;
 `(I) needs-based payments and financial assistance;
 `(J) followup services with participants placed in unsubsidized employment;
 and
 `(K) services to obtain job placements for individual participants.
 `(c) DESIGN OF SERVICES-
 `(1) WORKPLACE CONTEXT AND INTEGRATION- Basic skills training provided
 under this part shall, in appropriate circumstances, have a workplace
 context and be integrated with occupational skills training.
 `(2) BASIC EDUCATION OR OCCUPATIONAL SKILLS-
 `(A) ADDITIONAL SERVICES- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), work
 experience, job search assistance, job search skills training, and job club
 activities provided under this part shall be accompanied by additional
 services designed to increase the basic education or occupational skills
 of a participant.
 `(B) LACK OF APPROPRIATENESS AND AVAILABILITY- Each program assisted under
 this part may only provide job search assistance, job search skills training,
 and job club activities to a participant without the additional services
 described in subparagraph (A) if--
 `(i) the assessment and service strategy of a participant indicate that
 the additional services are not appropriate; and
 `(ii) the activities are not available to the participant through the
 employment service or other public agencies.
 `(3) NEEDS-BASED PAYMENTS- Needs-based payments and financial assistance
 provided under this part shall be limited to payments necessary for
 participation in the program assisted under this part in accordance with
 a locally developed formula or procedure.
 `(4) COUNSELING AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES- Counseling and supportive services
 provided under this part may be provided to a participant for a period up
 to 1 year after the date on which the participant completes the program.
 `(5) PROHIBITION ON PRIVATE ACTIONS- Nothing in this section shall be
 construed to establish a right for a participant to bring an action to
 obtain services described in the assessment or service strategy developed
 under subsection (a)(1).
 `(6) VOLUNTEERS- The service delivery area shall make opportunities available
 for individuals who have successfully participated in programs under this
 part to volunteer assistance to participants in the form of mentoring,
 tutoring, and other activities.
 `(d) SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Governor is authorized to provide for job training
 programs that are developed in conjunction with service delivery areas within
 the State and that are consistent with the plan for the service delivery
 area prepared and submitted in accordance with section 104, and designed
 to ensure the training and placement of older individuals in employment
 opportunities with private business concerns. The Governor shall ensure that
 the program under this subsection provides services throughout the State to
 older individuals on an equitable basis, taking into account the relative
 share of the population of older individuals described in paragraph (6)(A)
 within the State, residing in each service delivery area.
 `(2) AGREEMENTS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- In carrying out this subsection, the Governor shall, after
 consultation with appropriate private industry councils and chief elected
 officials, enter into agreements with public agencies, nonprofit private
 organizations (including veterans organizations), private industry councils,
 service delivery areas, and private business concerns.
 `(B) PRIORITY- In entering into the agreements described in subparagraph (A),
 the Governor shall give priority to national, State, and local agencies and
 organizations that have a record of demonstrated effectiveness in providing
 training and employment services to such older individuals.
 `(3) CONSIDERATIONS- The Governor shall give consideration to assisting
 programs involving training for jobs in growth industries and jobs reflecting
 the use of new technological skills.
 `(4) COORDINATION- In providing the services required by this subsection,
 the Governor shall make efforts to coordinate the delivery of such services
 with the delivery of services under title V of the Older Americans Act of
 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.).
 `(5) ELIGIBILITY-
 `(A) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED- Except as provided in subparagraph (B),
 an individual shall be eligible to participate in a job training program
 under this subsection only if the individual is economically disadvantaged
 and is an older individual.
 `(B) SPECIAL RULE-
 `(i) INDIVIDUALS FACING SERIOUS BARRIERS TO EMPLOYMENT- An individual who
 is not economically disadvantaged as described in subparagraph (A) shall be
 eligible to participate in a job training program under this subsection if the
 individual faces serious barriers to employment, is an older individual, and
 meets income eligibility requirements under title V of the Older Americans
 Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.) subject to clause (ii).
 `(ii) LIMITATION- Not more than 10 percent of all participants in a program
 assisted under this subsection shall be individuals who are not economically
 disadvantaged.
 `(6) APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the requirements of
 this Act applicable to programs conducted under this subsection shall be the
 same requirements applicable to the other programs conducted under this part.
 `(B) EXCEPTIONS-
 `(i) PROVISIONS NOT APPLICABLE- The provisions of section 104, subsections
 (b)(7) and (j) of section 106, section 109, section 203, and section 204(a)(2)
 shall not be applicable to programs conducted under this subsection.
 `(ii) GOVERNOR- With respect to the application of sections 106(b), 108(b),
 141(d)(3)(C), and 205 to programs conducted under this subsection, the term
 `service delivery area', as used in such provisions, means the Governor.
 `(7) DEFINITION- As used in this subsection, the term `older individual'
 means an individual age 55 or older.
`SEC. 205. LINKAGES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In conducting the program assisted under this part,
 service delivery areas shall establish appropriate linkages with other
 Federal programs. Such programs shall include, where feasible, programs
 assisted under--
 `(1) the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.);
 `(2) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
 `(3) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
 `(4) part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.);
 `(5) the employment program established under section 6(d)(4) of the Food
 Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4));
 `(6) the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
 `(7) the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.);
 `(8) title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.);
 `(9) chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et seq.);
 `(10) the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 100-77;
 101 Stat. 482);
 `(11) the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.);
 `(12) the National Literacy Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-73);
 `(13) the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.) (for purposes of child
 care services); and
 `(14) any other provisions of this Act.
 `(b) OTHER APPROPRIATE LINKAGES- In addition to the linkages required under
 subsection (a), each service delivery area receiving financial assistance
 under this part shall establish other appropriate linkages to enhance the
 provision of services under this part. Such linkages may be established
 with local educational agencies, local service agencies, public housing
 agencies, community-based organizations, business and labor organizations,
 volunteer groups working with disadvantaged adults, and other training,
 education, employment, economic development, and social service programs.
`SEC. 206. TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
 `A service delivery area may transfer up to 10 percent of the amounts
 allocated to the service delivery area under section 202(b) to the program
 under part C if such transfer is--
 `(1) described in the job training plan; and
 `(2) approved by the Governor.'.
SEC. 204. SUMMER YOUTH EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAM.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`Part B--Summer Youth Employment and Training Program
`SEC. 251. PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of programs assisted under this part--
 `(1) to enhance the basic educational skills of youth;
 `(2) to encourage school completion or enrollment in supplementary or
 alternative school programs;
 `(3) to provide eligible youth with exposure to the world of work; and
 `(4) to enhance the citizenship skills of youth.
`SEC. 252. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 `(a) TERRITORIAL AND NATIVE AMERICAN ALLOCATION- From the funds appropriated
 under section 3(a)(2), the Secretary shall first allocate to Guam, the Virgin
 Islands, American Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
 of the Marshall Islands, Palau, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
 Islands, and entities eligible under section 401 the same percentage of funds
 as were available to such areas and entities for the summer youth program in
 the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
 `(b) USE OF PART C FORMULA FOR ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION- The remainder
 of funds appropriated under section 3(a)(2) shall, for each fiscal year,
 be allotted among States and allocated among service delivery areas in
 accordance with section 262, except that no portion of such funds shall be
 reserved to carry out subsection (a)(1) or (c) of such section.
`SEC. 253. USE OF FUNDS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Funds available under this part may be used for--
 `(1) basic and remedial education, institutional and on-the-job training,
 work experience programs, youth corps programs, employment counseling,
 occupational training, preparation for work, outreach and enrollment
 activities, employability assessment, job referral and placement, job search
 assistance and job club activities, activities under programs described in
 section 265(b), and any other employment or job training activity designed
 to give employment to eligible individuals or prepare the individuals for,
 and place the individuals in, employment;
 `(2) supportive services necessary to enable such individuals to participate
 in the program; and
 `(3) administrative costs, not to exceed 15 percent of the funds available
 under this part.
 `(b) BASIC AND REMEDIAL EDUCATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A service delivery area shall expend funds (available
 under this Act or otherwise available to the service delivery area) for
 basic and remedial education and training as described in the job training
 plan under section 104.
 `(2) EDUCATION OR TRAINING- The education and training authorized by paragraph
 (1) may be provided by--
 `(A) the year-round program under part C;
 `(B) the Job Corps;
 `(C) the JOBS program;
 `(D) youth corps programs;
 `(E) alternative or secondary schools; or
 `(F) other education and training programs.
 `(c) ASSESSMENT AND SERVICE STRATEGY-
 `(1) ASSESSMENT-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the programs under
 this part shall include an objective assessment of the basic skills and
 supportive services needs of each participant, which may include a review
 of occupational skills, prior work experience, employability, interests,
 and aptitudes.
 `(B) RECENT ASSESSMENT- A new assessment, or a factor of such assessment,
 of a participant is not required if the program determines it is appropriate
 to use a recent assessment of the participant conducted pursuant to another
 education or training program (such as the JOBS program or a regular high
 school academic program).
 `(2) SERVICE STRATEGY-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the programs
 under this part shall include a service strategy for participants, which
 may identify achievement objectives, appropriate employment goals, and
 appropriate services for participants, taking into account the assessments
 conducted under paragraph (1).
 `(B) RECENT SERVICE STRATEGY- A new service strategy for a participant is not
 required if the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent service
 strategy developed for the participant under another education or training
 program (such as the JOBS program or a regular high school academic program).
 `(d) FOLLOWUP SERVICES- Service delivery areas shall make followup services
 available for participants if the service strategy indicates such services
 are appropriate.
`SEC. 254. LIMITATIONS.
 `(a) USE DURING SUMMER MONTHS OR EQUIVALENT VACATION PERIOD-
 `(1) SUMMER MONTHS- Except as provided in paragraph (2), programs under
 this part shall be conducted during the summer months.
 `(2) VACATION PERIOD- A service delivery area may, within the jurisdiction
 of any local educational agency that operates schools on a year-round,
 full-time basis, offer the programs under this part to participants during
 a vacation period treated as the equivalent of a summer vacation.
 `(b) ELIGIBILITY- An individual shall be eligible to participate in the
 program assisted under this part if such individual--
 `(1) is age 14 through 21; and
 `(2)(A) is economically disadvantaged; or
 `(B) has been determined to meet the eligibility requirements for free
 meals under the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) during
 the most recent school year.
 `(c) CONCURRENT ENROLLMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- An eligible individual participating in a program assisted
 under this part may concurrently be enrolled in programs under part
 C. Appropriate adjustment to the youth performance standards (regarding
 attainment of competencies) under paragraphs (4)(A)(i) and (5) of section
 106(b) shall be made to reflect the limited period of participation.
 `(2) CONCURRENT ENROLLMENT AND TRANSFERS- Youth being served under this part
 or part C youth programs are not required to be terminated from participation
 in one program in order to enroll in the other. The Secretary shall provide
 guidance to service delivery areas on simplified procedures for concurrent
 enrollment and transfers for youth from one program to the other.
`SEC. 255. APPLICABLE PROVISIONS.
 `(a) COMPARABLE FUNCTIONS OF AGENCIES AND OFFICIALS- Private industry
 councils established under title I, chief elected officials, State job
 training coordinating councils, and Governors shall have the same authority,
 duties, and responsibilities with respect to planning and administration
 of funds available under this part as the private industry councils, chief
 elected officials, State job training coordinating councils, and Governors
 have with respect to funds available under parts A and C.
 `(b) PROGRAM GOALS AND OBJECTIVES- Each service delivery area shall establish
 written program goals and objectives that shall be used for evaluating
 the effectiveness of programs conducted under this part. Such goals and
 objectives may include--
 `(1) improvement in school retention and completion;
 `(2) improvement in academic performance, including mathematics and reading
 comprehension;
 `(3) improvement in employability skills; and
 `(4) demonstrated coordination with other community service organizations
 such as local educational agencies, law enforcement agencies, and drug and
 alcohol abuse prevention and treatment programs.'.
SEC. 205. SUMMER YOUTH PROGRAM TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 256. TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
 `A service delivery area may transfer up to 10 percent of the funds provided
 under this part to the program under part C if such transfer is approved
 by the Governor.'.
SEC. 206. YOUTH TRAINING PROGRAM.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`Part C--Youth Training Program
`SEC. 261. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of the programs assisted under this part to improve the
 long-term employability of youth, enhance the educational, occupational,
 and citizenship skills of youth, encourage school completion or enrollment in
 alternative school programs, increase the employment and earnings of youth,
 reduce welfare dependency, and assist youth in addressing problems that
 impair the ability of youth to make successful transitions from school to
 work, apprenticeship, the military, or postsecondary education and training.'.
SEC. 207. YOUTH TRAINING PROGRAM ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 262. ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 `(a) ALLOTMENT-
 `(1) TERRITORIES- Of the amount appropriated under section 3(a)(1) for each
 fiscal year and available to carry out this part, not more than one-quarter of
 1 percent shall be allotted among Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of
 Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
 `(2) STATE RESERVATION- After determining the amounts to be allotted under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall allot 82 percent of the remainder to the
 States for allocation to service delivery areas within each State. Each
 State shall allocate to each service delivery area within the State the
 amount determined by the Secretary for such service delivery area pursuant
 to the formula contained in subsection (b). The remaining 18 percent shall
 be allotted in accordance with subsection (c).
 `(b) ALLOCATION TO SERVICE DELIVERY AREAS-
 `(1) FORMULA- Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2), of the amounts
 allocated to service delivery areas for this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment
 within each service delivery area as compared to the total number of such
 unemployed individuals in all such areas of substantial unemployment in
 all service delivery areas in all States;
 `(B) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative
 excess number of unemployed individuals within each service delivery area
 as compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all
 service delivery areas in all States; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged youth within each service delivery area as
 compared to the total number of economically disadvantaged youth in all
 service delivery areas in all States except that, for any service delivery
 area described in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii), the allocation shall be based
 on the higher of the number of youth in families with an income below the
 low-income level in such area or the number of economically disadvantaged
 youth in such area.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area shall be allocated less
 than 90 percent of its allocation percentage for the fiscal year preceding
 the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
 `(B) MAXIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area shall be allocated more
 than 130 percent of its allocation percentage for the fiscal year preceding
 the fiscal year for which the determination is made.
 `(C) STATE MINIMUM- Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) and (B), the total
 allocation for all service delivery areas within any one State shall not
 be less than one-quarter of 1 percent of the total allocated to all service
 delivery areas in all States.
 `(D) ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraphs (A) and (B), the allocation percentage of a service delivery
 area for a fiscal year shall be the percentage of funds allocated to the
 service delivery area under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the
 allocation percentage of a service delivery area for fiscal year 1992 shall
 be the percentage of funds allocated to the service delivery area under
 part A of title II.
 `(c) STATE ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) DIVISION- Of the remaining 18 percent of funds available for allotment
 to States under this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 5 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2), for overall
 administration, management, and auditing activities relating to programs
 under this title and for activities described in sections 121 and 122;
 `(B) 5 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2), to provide
 incentive grants authorized under section 106(b)(7), in accordance with
 paragraph (3); and
 `(C) 8 percent of the funds available for such allotment under this part
 shall be allotted to the States in accordance with paragraph (2) to carry
 out section 123.
 `(2) FORMULA FOR ALLOCATION- The allotments to each State described in
 paragraph (1) shall be based on the relative amount of funds allocated
 to all service delivery areas within such State under subsection (b) as
 compared to the amount of funds allocated to all service delivery areas in
 all States under subsection (b).
 `(3) OTHER USES-
 `(A) CAPACITY BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Governor may use up
 to 33 percent of the amount allotted under paragraph (1)(B) for providing
 capacity building and technical assistance to service delivery areas and
 service providers. Such use of funds may include the development and training
 of service delivery area and service provider staff and the development of
 exemplary program activities.
 `(B) NONDUPLICATION AND COORDINATION- Funds used under subparagraph (A)--
 `(i) may not be used to duplicate the activities of the Capacity Building and
 Information and Dissemination Network established under section 453(b); and
 `(ii) shall, to the extent practicable, be used to coordinate the activities
 under subparagraph (A) with the activities of the Network under section
 453(b).
 `(d) DEFINITIONS AND RULE-
 `(1) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
 `(A) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED YOUTH- The term `economically disadvantaged
 youth' means an individual who is age 16 through 21 and who has, or is
 a member of a family that has, received a total family income that, in
 relation to family size, was not in excess of the higher of--
 `(i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management
 and Budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the
 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)); or
 `(ii) 70 percent of the lower living standard income level.
 `(B) EXCESS NUMBER- The terms `excess number' and `State' shall have the
 meanings given the terms in subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively, of
 section 202(d)(1).
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- For the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall,
 as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students
 and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of
 economically disadvantaged youth.'.
SEC. 208. YOUTH TRAINING PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY AND SERVICES.
 Title II of the Act (as amended by the preceding sections) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 263. ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICES.
 `(a) IN-SCHOOL YOUTH- Except as provided in subsections (e) and (g), an
 individual who is in school shall be eligible to participate in the program
 under this part if such individual--
 `(1)(A) is age 16 through 21; or
 `(B) if provided in the job training plan, is age 14 through 21; and
 `(2)(A) is economically disadvantaged;
 `(B) is participating in a compensatory education program under chapter
 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
 U.S.C. 2711 et seq.); or
 `(C) has been determined to meet the eligibility requirements for free
 meals under the National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.) during
 the most recent school year.
 `(b) HARD-TO-SERVE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE IN-SCHOOL YOUTH- Not less than 65
 percent of the in-school individuals who participate in a program under
 this part shall be individuals who are included in one or more of the
 following categories:
 `(1) Individuals who are basic skills deficient.
 `(2) Individuals with educational attainment that is 1 or more grade levels
 below the grade level appropriate to the age of the individuals.
 `(3) Individuals who are pregnant or parenting.
 `(4) Individuals with disabilities, including a learning disability.
 `(5) Individuals who are homeless or run-away youth.
 `(6) Individuals who are offenders.
 `(7) Individuals within a category established under subsection (h).
 `(c) OUT-OF-SCHOOL YOUTH- Except as provided in subsection (e), an individual
 who is out of school shall be eligible to participate in the program under
 this part if such individual is--
 `(1) age 16 through 21; and
 `(2) economically disadvantaged.
 `(d) HARD-TO-SERVE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE OUT-OF-SCHOOL YOUTH- Not less than
 65 percent of the out-of-school individuals who participate in a program
 under this part shall be individuals who are included in 1 or more of the
 following categories:
 `(1) Individuals who are basic skills deficient.
 `(2) Individuals who are school dropouts (subject to the conditions described
 in section 264(d)(2)).
 `(3) Individuals who are pregnant or parenting.
 `(4) Individuals with disabilities, including a learning disability.
 `(5) Individuals who are homeless or run-away youth.
 `(6) Individuals who are offenders.
 `(7) Individuals in a category established under subsection (h).
 `(e) EXCEPTIONS- Not more than 10 percent of participants in a program
 assisted under this part in each service delivery area may be individuals
 who do not meet the requirements of subsection (a)(2) or (c)(2), if such
 individuals are within one or more categories of individuals who face
 serious barriers to employment. Such categories may include the categories
 described in subsections (b) and (d), or categories such as individuals
 with limited-English language proficiency, alcoholics, or drug addicts.
 `(f) RATIO OF OUT-OF-SCHOOL TO IN-SCHOOL YOUTH-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), not less than 50
 percent of the participants in the program under this part in each service
 delivery area shall be out-of-school individuals who meet the requirements
 of subsection (c), (d), or (e).
 `(2) COUNTING OF IN-SCHOOL INDIVIDUALS- In-school individuals served as a
 part of a schoolwide project under subsection (g) shall not be counted as
 a part of the ratio of in-school individuals to out-of-school individuals.
 `(g) SCHOOLWIDE PROJECTS FOR LOW-INCOME SCHOOLS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In addition to the individuals described in subsection
 (e), an individual who does not meet the requirements of subsection (a)(2)
 may participate in the programs assisted under this part if such individual
 is enrolled in a public school--
 `(A) that is located in a poverty area;
 `(B) that is served by a local educational agency that is eligible for
 assistance under chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and Secondary
 Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2711 et seq.);
 `(C) in which not less than 70 percent of the students enrolled are included
 in the categories described in subsection (b); and
 `(D) that conducts a program under a cooperative arrangement that meets
 the requirements of section 265(d).
 `(2) DEFINITION- For the purposes of paragraph (1), the term `poverty area'
 means an urban census tract or a nonmetropolitan county with a poverty rate
 of 30 percent or more, as determined by the Bureau of the Census.
 `(h) ADDITIONAL CATEGORY- A service delivery area conducting a program
 assisted under this part may add one category of youth who face serious
 barriers to employment to the categories of eligible individuals specified
 in subsection (b) and one category to the categories of eligible individuals
 described in subsection (d) if--
 `(1) the service delivery area submits a request to the Governor identifying
 the additional category of individuals and justifying the inclusion of
 such category;
 `(2) the additional category of individuals is not solely comprised of--
 `(A) individuals with a poor work history; or
 `(B) individuals who are unemployed; and
 `(3) the Governor approves the request submitted under paragraph (1) and
 transmits a description of the approved request to the Secretary, as part
 of the Governor's coordination and special services plan under section 121.
`SEC. 264. PROGRAM DESIGN.
 `(a) YEAR-ROUND OPERATION- The programs under this part shall be conducted
 on a year-round basis. Services shall be made available on a multiyear
 basis as appropriate.
 `(b) ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The programs under this part shall include--
 `(A) an objective assessment of the skill levels and service needs of each
 participant, which assessment shall include a review of basic skills,
 occupational skills, prior work experience, employability, interests,
 aptitudes (including interests and aptitudes for nontraditional jobs), and
 supportive service needs, except that a new assessment of a participant is
 not required if the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent
 assessment of the participant conducted under another education or training
 program (such as the JOBS program);
 `(B) development of service strategies that shall identify the employment
 goal (including, in appropriate circumstances, nontraditional employment),
 appropriate achievement objectives, and appropriate services for participants
 taking into account the assessments conducted pursuant to subparagraph (A),
 except that a new service strategy for a participant is not required if
 the program determines it is appropriate to use a recent service strategy
 developed for the participant under another education or training program
 (such as the JOBS program);
 `(C) a review of the progress of each participant in meeting the objectives
 of the service strategy; and
 `(D) each of the following services, which shall be provided either directly
 or through arrangement with other programs to a participant where the
 assessment and the service strategy indicate such services are appropriate:
 `(i) Basic skills training.
 `(ii) Occupational skills training.
 `(iii) Preemployment  and  work  maturity  skills training.
 `(iv) Work experience combined with skills training.
 `(v) Supportive services.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS-
 `(A) INFORMATION AND REFERRALS- Each service delivery area shall ensure
 that each participant or applicant who meets the minimum income eligibility
 criteria shall be provided--
 `(i) information on the full array of applicable or appropriate services that
 are available through the service delivery area or other service providers,
 including those receiving funds under this Act; and
 `(ii) referral to appropriate training and educational programs that have
 the capacity to serve the participant or applicant either on a sequential
 or concurrent basis.
 `(B) APPLICANTS NOT MEETING ENROLLMENT REQUIREMENTS-
 `(i) SERVICE PROVIDERS- Each service provider shall ensure that an eligible
 applicant who does not meet the enrollment requirements of its particular
 program or who cannot be served shall be referred to the service delivery
 area for further assessment, as necessary, and referral to appropriate
 programs in accordance with subparagraph (A) to meet the basic skills and
 training needs of the applicant.
 `(ii) SERVICE DELIVERY AREA- The service delivery area shall ensure that
 appropriate referrals are made pursuant to clause (i), and shall maintain
 appropriate records of such referrals and the basis for such referrals.
 `(c) AUTHORIZED SERVICES- Subject to the limitations contained in subsection
 (d), services which may be made available to youth with funds provided
 under this part may include--
 `(1) direct training services, including--
 `(A) the services described in section 204(b)(1);
 `(B) tutoring and study skills training;
 `(C) alternative high school services within programs that meet the
 requirements of section 141(o)(1);
 `(D) instruction leading to high school completion or the equivalent;
 `(E) mentoring;
 `(F) limited internships in the private sector;
 `(G) training or education that is combined with community and youth service
 opportunities in public agencies, nonprofit agencies, and other appropriate
 agencies, institutions, and organizations, including youth corps programs;
 `(H) entry employment experience programs;
 `(I) school-to-work transition services;
 `(J) school-to-postsecondary education transition services;
 `(K) school-to-apprenticeship transition services; and
 `(L) preemployment and work maturity skills training; and
 `(2) training-related and supportive services, including--
 `(A) the services described in section 204(b)(2);
 `(B) drug and alcohol abuse counseling and referral;
 `(C) services encouraging parental, spousal, and other significant adult
 involvement in the program of the participant; and
 `(D) cash incentives and bonuses based on attendance and performance in
 a program.
 `(d) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) STRATEGIES AND SERVICES- In developing service strategies and designing
 services for the program under this part, the service delivery area and
 private industry council shall take into consideration exemplary program
 strategies and practices, including the strategies and practices of model
 programs selected for replication under section 453(c).
 `(2) SCHOOL DROPOUTS-
 `(A) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENTS- In order to participate in a program
 assisted under this part, except for interim periods, an individual who is
 under the age of 18 and a school dropout shall enroll in and attend a school,
 course, or program described in clause (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph (B).
 `(B) SERVICE DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Each service delivery area shall make available, in
 accordance with this subparagraph, to each participant in the program who is
 under the age of 18 and is a school dropout, at least 2 options for school
 attendance. Such options shall be provided concurrently or sequentially
 with other services provided under this part to each such participant as
 a part of the training of such participant.
 `(ii) SCHOOL ATTENDANCE- Each service delivery area shall provide, as one
 of the options for school attendance, an option for each such participant
 to enroll in and attend a high school equivalency program.
 `(iii) ADDITIONAL OPTION- Each service delivery area shall provide, as a
 second option for school attendance for each such participant--
 `(I) an option to reenroll in and attend school;
 `(II) an option to enroll in and attend an alternative high school; or
 `(III) an option to enroll in and attend an alternative course of study
 approved by the local educational agency.
 `(3) SKILLS TRAINING-
 `(A) PREEMPLOYMENT AND WORK MATURITY SKILLS TRAINING- Preemployment and
 work maturity skills training authorized by this part shall be accompanied
 by either work experience or other additional services designed to increase
 the basic education or occupational skills of a participant. The additional
 services may be provided, concurrently or  sequentially, under other
 education and training programs, including the Job Corps and the JOBS program.
 `(B) ADDITIONAL SERVICES- Work experience, job search assistance, job
 search skills training, and job club activities provided under this part
 shall be accompanied by additional services designed to increase the basic
 education or occupational skills of a participant. The additional services
 may be provided, concurrently or sequentially, under other education and
 training programs, including the Job Corps and the JOBS program.
 `(C) ON-THE-JOB TRAINING-
 `(i) POSITIONS- On-the-job training authorized under this part shall only
 be available in positions that--
 `(I) pay the participant a wage that equals or exceeds the average wage at
 placement in the service delivery area for participants under part A; and
 `(II) have career advancement potential.
 `(ii) FORMAL PROGRAM OR STRUCTURED JOB TRAINING- On-the-job training
 authorized under this part shall include a formal program of structured
 job training that will provide participants with an orderly sequence of
 instruction in work maturity skills, general employment competencies,
 and occupationally specific skills.
 `(iii) PARTICIPATION REQUIREMENT- In order to participate in on-the-job
 training authorized under this part, except for interim periods, an
 individual who has not attained a high school diploma or its equivalent shall
 concurrently enroll in and attend a school, course, or program described
 in clause (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (2)(B).
 `(4) NEEDS-BASED PAYMENTS- Needs-based payments and financial assistance
 provided under this part shall be limited to payments necessary for
 participation in the program assisted under this part in accordance with
 a locally developed formula or procedure.
 `(5) COUNSELING AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES- Counseling and supportive services
 provided under this part may be provided to a participant for a period of
 up to 1 year after the date on which the participant completes the program.
 `(6) PROHIBITION ON PRIVATE ACTIONS- Nothing in this section shall be
 construed to establish a right for a participant to bring an action to
 obtain services described in the assessment or service strategy developed
 under subsection (b)(1).
 `(7) VOLUNTEERS- The service delivery area shall make opportunities available
 for successful individuals who have previously participated in programs under
 this part to volunteer assistance to participants in the form of mentoring,
 tutoring, and other activities.
`SEC. 265. LINKAGES.
 `(a) EDUCATIONAL LINKAGES- In conducting the program assisted under this
 part, service delivery areas shall establish linkages with the appropriate
 educational agencies responsible for service to participants. Such linkages
 shall include--
 `(1) formal agreements with local educational agencies that will identify--
 `(A) the procedures for referring and serving in-school youth;
 `(B) the methods of assessment of in-school youth; and
 `(C) procedures for notifying the program when a youth drops out of the
 school system;
 `(2) arrangements to ensure that the program under this part supplements
 existing programs provided by local educational agencies to in-school youth;
 `(3) arrangements to ensure that the program under this part utilizes,
 to the extent possible, existing services provided by local educational
 agencies to out-of-school youth; and
 `(4) arrangements to ensure that for in-school participants there is a
 regular exchange of information between the program and the educational
 agency relating to participant progress, problems, and needs, including,
 in appropriate circumstances, interim assessment results.
 `(b) EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAM LINKAGES- In conducting the program
 assisted under this part, service delivery areas shall establish appropriate
 linkages with other education and training programs authorized under Federal
 law. Such programs shall include, where feasible, programs assisted under--
 `(1) part B of title IV (the Job Corps);
 `(2) parts A through D of chapter 1 of title I of the Elementary and
 Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2711 et seq.);
 `(3) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
 `(4) the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.);
 `(5) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
 `(6) part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (JOBS) (42 U.S.C. 681
 et seq.);
 `(7) the Food Stamp Act (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.);
 `(8) the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
 `(9) the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (Public Law 100-77;
 101 Stat. 482); and
 `(10) any other provisions of this Act.
 `(c) OTHER PROGRAMS- In addition to the linkages required under subsections
 (a) and (b), service delivery areas receiving financial assistance under this
 part shall establish other appropriate linkages to enhance the provision
 of services under this part. Such linkages may be established with State
 and local service agencies, public housing agencies, community-based
 organizations, business and labor organizations, volunteer groups working
 with at-risk youth, parents and family members, juvenile justice systems,
 and other training, education, employment and social service programs,
 including programs conducted under part A.
 `(d) SCHOOLWIDE PROJECTS FOR LOW-INCOME SCHOOLS- In conducting a program
 serving individuals specified in section 263(g), the service delivery
 area shall establish a cooperative arrangement with the appropriate local
 educational agency that shall, in addition to the other requirements of
 this section, include--
 `(1) a description of the ways in which the program will supplement the
 educational program of the school;
 `(2) identification of measurable goals to be achieved by the program and
 provision for assessing the extent to which such goals are met;
 `(3) a description of the ways in which the program will use resources
 provided under this part and resources provided under other education
 programs to achieve the goals identified in paragraph (2);
 `(4) a description of the number of individuals to be served; and
 `(5) assurances that the resources provided under this part shall be used
 to supplement and not supplant existing sources of funds.
`SEC. 266. TRANSFER OF FUNDS.
 `A service delivery area may transfer up to 10 percent of the amounts
 allocated to the service delivery area under section 262(b) to the program
 under part A if such transfer is--
 `(1) described in the job training plan; and
 `(2) approved by the Governor.'.
TITLE III--EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE FOR DISLOCATED WORKERS
SEC. 301. STATE AGENCY APPROVAL.
 Section 314(f) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1661c(f)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' before `Funds'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) An eligible dislocated worker participating in training (except for
 on-the-job training) under this title shall be deemed to be in training
 with the approval of the State agency for purposes of section 3304(a)(8)
 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.'.
SEC. 302. LIMITATIONS ON USES OF FUNDS.
 (a) RETRAINING SERVICES- Section 315(a)(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1661d(a)(1))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) RETRAINING SERVICES- (1) Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee
 under part A of this title for any program year, not less than 50 percent
 shall be expended for retraining services specified under section 314(d).'.
 (b) NEEDS-RELATED PAYMENTS AND SUPPORTIVE SERVICES- Section 315(b) of the
 Act is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee or to the Governor under
 part A of this title for any program year, not more than 25 percent may be
 expended to provide needs-related payments and other supportive services.'.
 (c) ADMINISTRATIVE COST- The first sentence of section 315(c) of the Act is
 amended to read as follows: `Of the funds allocated to a substate grantee or
 to the Governor under part A of this title for any program year, not more than
 15 percent may be expended to cover the administrative cost of programs.'.
 (d) COMBINATION OF FUNDS- Section 315 of the Act is further amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) COMBINATION OF FUNDS- Substate grantees within a State may combine
 funds under this title for the provision of services to eligible dislocated
 workers from 2 or more substate areas.'.
 (e) REALLOTMENT- Section 315 of the Act is further amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `allocated', means
 allocated for a program year, as adjusted for reallocations between substate
 areas, and for reallotments in accordance with section 303.'.
SEC. 303. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
 Section 324(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1662c(a)) is amended by striking `1989,
 1990, and 1991,' and inserting `1992 through 1996,'.
TITLE IV--FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
SEC. 401. NATIVE AMERICAN AND MIGRANT PROGRAMS.
 (a) PERFORMANCE STANDARDS- Section 401(h)(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671(h)(1))
 is amended by inserting `pursuant to section 106' after `performance
 standards'.
 (b) NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS- Section 401(j) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671(j))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(j)(1) The Secretary shall designate a single organizational unit that
 shall have as its primary responsibility the administration of all Native
 American programs authorized under this Act.
 `(2) Such organizational unit shall--
 `(A) be responsible for administering the provisions of the Native American
 programs authorized under this Act, including monitoring such programs
 and making recommendations regarding the selection of the recipients of
 financial assistance;
 `(B) be responsible for the development of the policies and procedures
 related to the implementation of such programs; and
 `(C) coordinate the development of policy and procedures for the employment
 and training programs within the Department relating to services for Native
 American workers.
 `(3) In the hiring and promotion of the professional staff for the
 organizational unit designated under paragraph (1), special consideration
 shall be given to individuals who have field experience in the daily operation
 of service and training programs for Native Americans, and individuals who
 are Indians or Alaskan Natives. The Secretary shall take such additional
 actions as may be necessary to promote the recruitment and promotion of
 Indians, Alaskan Natives, and Hawaiian Natives to positions in such unit.'.
 (c) PERMANENT ADVISORY COUNCIL- Section 401 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(k)(1) There is hereby established a Native American Employment and Training
 Council (referred to in this subsection as the `Council'), which shall
 consist of not fewer than 17 Indians, Alaskan Natives, and Hawaiian Natives
 appointed by the Secretary from among individuals nominated by Indian tribes
 or Indian, Alaskan Native, or Hawaiian Native organizations. The membership
 of the Council shall represent all geographic areas of the United States
 with a substantial Indian, Alaskan Native, or Hawaiian Native population and
 shall include representatives of tribal governments and of nonreservation
 Native American organizations who are service providers under this Act. A
 majority of the members of the Council shall have field experience in the
 daily operation of the program authorized under this section.
 `(2) The Council shall select a chairperson from among its members by
 a majority vote. The Council shall meet not less often than twice each
 program year.
 `(3) Members of the Native American Programs Advisory Committee that existed
 before the date of enactment of this subsection--
 `(A) shall serve as members of the Council until their successors are
 appointed; and
 `(B) may be appointed as members of the Council, if such appointment is
 consistent with the provisions of this subsection.
 `(4) Each member of the Council shall serve for a term of 2 years, except
 that--
 `(A) one-half of the members initially appointed (as designated by the
 Secretary) shall serve for terms of 1 year;
 `(B) any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Council shall be filled
 in the same manner as the original appointment, and shall not affect the
 power of the remaining members to execute the duties of the Council;
 `(C) any member appointed to such a vacancy shall serve for the remainder
 of the term for which the predecessor of the member was appointed; and
 `(D) members may be reappointed.
 `(5) The initial membership of the Council shall be appointed not later
 than the beginning of program year 1993.
 `(6) The Council shall--
 `(A) solicit the views of a wide variety of Indian tribes and Native American
 groups, including groups operating employment and training programs funded
 under this section, on issues affecting the operation and administration
 of such programs;
 `(B) advise the Secretary with respect to the implementation of programs
 under this section and other programs providing services to Native American
 youth and adults under this Act;
 `(C) advise and make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to
 the design and implementation of performance standards developed under
 section 106(f);
 `(D) advise and make recommendations to the Secretary with respect to
 the services obtained or to be obtained by the Department of Labor through
 contracts or arrangements with non-Federal agencies or entities that involve
 the program authorized by this section;
 `(E) evaluate the effectiveness of Native American job training programs
 and make recommendations with respect to the improvement of such programs;
 `(F) advise the Secretary with respect to individuals to be considered to fill
 the position of the official in charge of the organizational unit designated
 under subsection (j)(1) whenever a vacancy in such position occurs; and
 `(G) prepare and submit directly to the Secretary and to the Congress,
 not later than January 1 of each even numbered year, a report containing
 information on the progress of Native American job training programs and
 recommendations for improving their administration and effectiveness.
 `(7) Members of the Council shall serve without compensation. Each member
 of the Council shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of
 subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter
 I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, for each day the member is
 engaged in the performance of duties away from the home or regular place
 of business of the member.
 `(8) The Secretary shall provide the Council with such administrative
 support as may be necessary to perform its functions.'.
 (d) COMPETITION- Section 401 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671), as amended by
 subsection (c), is further amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(l) The competition for grants under this section shall be conducted every 2
 years, except that if a recipient of such a grant has performed satisfactorily
 under the terms of the existing grant agreement, the Secretary may waive
 the requirement for such competition on receipt from the recipient of a
 satisfactory 2-year program plan for the succeeding 2-year grant period.'.
 (e) MIGRANT AND SEASONAL FARMWORKER PROGRAMS- Section 402(c)(2) of the Act
 (29 U.S.C. 1672(c)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c)(2) The competition for grants under this section shall be conducted
 every 2 years, except that if a recipient of such a grant has performed
 satisfactorily under the terms of the existing grant agreement, the
 Secretary may waive the requirement for such competition upon receipt from
 the recipient of a satisfactory 2-year program plan for the succeeding
 2-year grant period.'.
 (f) RESERVATION- Section 402 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1672) is amended by
 striking subsection (f).
 (g) GRANT PROCEDURES- Part A of title IV of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`GRANT PROCEDURES
 `SEC. 403. Grants under sections 401 and 402 shall be subject to the Single
 Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.) and charging of costs under such
 sections shall be subject to appropriate circulars issued by the Office of
 Management and Budget.'.
SEC. 402. JOB CORPS.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY- Section 423(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1693(1))  is amended
 by inserting after `except that', the following: `not more than 20 percent
 of the individuals enrolled may be age 22 through 24, and that either'.
 (b) CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER PARTICIPANTS TO AND FROM PROGRAMS
 UNDER TITLE II- Section 426 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1696)  is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to prohibit an individual who
 has been a participant in the Job Corps from concurrently or subsequently
 participating in programs under title II, or to prohibit an individual
 who has been a participant in programs under title II from concurrently or
 subsequently participating in the Job Corps.'.
 (c) NONRESIDENTIAL PARTICIPANTS- Section 427(a)(2) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1697(a)(2)) is amended by--
 (1) striking `10 percent' and inserting `20 percent'; and
 (2) adding at the end the following new sentences: `In enrolling individuals
 who are to be nonresidential participants, priority shall be given to those
 eligible individuals who are single parents with dependent children. The
 Secretary shall not reduce the number of residential participants in Job
 Corps programs under this part during any program year below the number of
 residential participants during program year 1991 in order to increase the
 number of individuals who are nonresidential participants in the Job Corps.'.
 (d) CONSERVATION CENTERS- Section 427 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1697)  is
 amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(c) No funds appropriated to the Department of Labor for any fiscal year
 may be used to carry out any contract with a nongovernmental entity to
 administer or manage a Civilian Conservation Center of the Job Corps.'.
 (e) ADDITIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES REQUIRED- Section 428 of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1698) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(e) The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, provide child care
 at or near Job Corps centers, for individuals who require child care for
 their children in order to participate in the Job Corps.
 `(f) Each Job Corps center shall provide to enrollees who are dependent
 on, or who have a history of abuse of, alcohol or drugs, with counseling
 and referral to related services necessary to prevent the continuance or
 recurrence of such dependency or abuse.'.
 (f) MANAGEMENT FEES- Section 437 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1707) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) The Secretary shall provide all Job Corps contractors with an equitable
 and negotiated management fee of not less than 1 percent of the contract
 amount.'.
SEC. 403. NATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part D of title IV (29 U.S.C. 1731 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 451, to read as follows:
`NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP AND SPECIAL TRAINING PROGRAMS
 `SEC. 451. (a) STATEMENT OF PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this section to--
 `(1) improve access to employment and training opportunities for individuals
 with special needs;
 `(2) help alleviate skill shortages and enhance the competitiveness of the
 labor force;
 `(3) meet special training needs that are best addressed on a multistate
 or industry-wide basis; and
 `(4) encourage the participation and support of all segments of society to
 further the purposes of this Act.
 `(b) PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary may establish a system of, and award,
 special grants to eligible entities to carry out programs that are most
 appropriately administered at the national level.
 `(c) PROGRAMS- Programs that are most appropriately administered at the
 national level include--
 `(1) partnership programs with national organizations with special expertise
 in developing, organizing, and administering employment and training
 programs at the national, State, and local levels, such as industry and
 labor associations, public interest groups, community-based organizations
 representative of groups that encounter special difficulties in the labor
 market, and other organizations with special knowledge or capabilities in
 education and training;
 `(2) programs that--
 `(A) address industry-wide skill shortages;
 `(B) meet training needs that are best addressed on a multistate basis; and
 `(C) further the goals of increasing the competitiveness of the United
 States labor force; and
 `(3) programs that require technical expertise available at the national
 level to serve specialized needs of particular client groups, including
 at-risk youth, offenders, individuals of limited-English language proficiency,
 individuals with disabilities, women, immigrants, single parents, substance
 abusers, displaced homemakers, youth, older individuals, veterans, school
 dropouts, public assistance recipients, and other individuals who the
 Secretary determines require special assistance.';
 (2) in section 452, to read as follows:
`RESEARCH, DEMONSTRATION, AND EVALUATION
 `SEC. 452. (a) STATEMENT OF PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this section to
 assist the United States in expanding employment opportunities and ensuring
 access to such opportunities for all who desire such opportunities.
 `(b) PROGRAM ESTABLISHED-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish a comprehensive program of
 training and employment research, utilizing the methods, techniques, and
 knowledge of the behavioral and social sciences and such other methods,
 techniques, and knowledge as will aid in the solution of the employment
 and training problems of the United States.
 `(2) STUDIES- The program established under this section may include
 studies concerning--
 `(A) the development or improvement of Federal, State, local, and privately
 supported employment and training programs;
 `(B) labor market processes and outcomes, including improving workplace
 literacy;
 `(C) policies and programs to reduce unemployment and the relationships of
 the policies and programs with price stability and other national goals;
 `(D) productivity of labor;
 `(E) improved means of using projections of labor supply and demand,
 including occupational and skill requirements and areas of labor shortages
 at the national and subnational levels;
 `(F) methods of improving the wages and employment opportunities of
 low-skilled, disadvantaged, and dislocated workers, and workers with
 obsolete skills;
 `(G) methods of addressing the needs of at-risk populations, such as youth,
 homeless individuals and other dependent populations, older individuals,
 and other groups with multiple barriers to employment;
 `(H) methods of developing information on immigration, international trade
 and competition, technological change, and labor shortages; and
 `(I) methods of easing the transition from school to work, from transfer
 payment receipt to self-sufficiency, from one job to another, and from work
 to retirement.
 `(c) PILOT AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS-
 `(1) PROGRAM ESTABLISHED-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish a program of pilot and
 demonstration programs for the purpose of developing and improving techniques
 and demonstrating the effectiveness of specialized methods in addressing
 employment and training needs. The Secretary may award grants and enter
 into contracts with entities to carry out the programs.
 `(B) PROJECTS- Such programs may include projects in such areas as--
 `(i) school-to-work transition;
 `(ii) new methods of imparting literacy skills and basic education;
 `(iii) new training techniques (including projects undertaken with the
 private sector);
 `(iv) methods to eliminate artificial barriers to employment;
 `(v) approaches that foster participation of groups that encounter special
 problems in the labor market (such as displaced homemakers, teen parents,
 welfare recipients, and older individuals);
 `(vi) processes that demonstrate effective methods for alleviating the
 adverse effects of dislocations and plant closings on workers and their
 communities; and
 `(vii) cooperative ventures among business, industry, labor, trade
 associations, community-based organizations or nonprofit organizations to
 develop new and cost-effective approaches to improving work force literacy.
 `(2) EVALUATION COMPONENT- Demonstration programs assisted under this
 subsection shall include a formal, rigorous evaluation component. Pilot
 programs assisted under this subsection shall include an appropriate
 evaluation component.
 `(3) SPECIAL RULE- No demonstration program under this subsection shall be
 assisted under this section for a period of more than 7 years. No pilot
 program under this subsection shall be assisted under this section for a
 period of more than 3 years.
 `(d) EVALUATION-
 `(1) PROGRAMS-
 `(A) JOB TRAINING PROGRAMS- The Secretary shall provide for the continuing
 evaluation of programs conducted under this Act, including the cost
 effectiveness of the program in achieving the purposes of this Act.
 `(B) OTHER PROGRAMS- The Secretary may conduct evaluations of other federally
 funded employment-related activities including programs administered under--
 `(i) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
 `(ii) the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.);
 `(iii) the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.);
 `(iv) chapter 2 of title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271 et
 seq.); and
 `(v) the Federal unemployment insurance program under titles III, IX,
 and XII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 501 et seq., 1101 et seq.,
 and 1321 et seq.).
 `(2) TECHNIQUES-
 `(A) METHODS- Evaluations conducted under paragraph (1) shall utilize sound
 statistical methods and techniques of the behavioral and social sciences,
 including random assignment methodologies if feasible.
 `(B) ANALYSIS- Such evaluations may include cost-benefit analysis of
 programs, the impact of the programs on community and participants, the
 extent to which programs meet the needs of various demographic groups,
 and the effectiveness of the delivery systems used by various programs.
 `(C) EFFECTIVENESS- The Secretary shall evaluate the effectiveness of
 programs authorized under this Act with respect to--
 `(i) the statutory goals;
 `(ii) the performance standards established by the Secretary; and
 `(iii) the extent to which such programs enhance the employment and earnings
 of participants, reduce income support costs, improve the employment
 competencies of participants in comparison to comparable persons who did
 not participate in such programs, and, to the extent feasible, increase
 the level of total employment over the level that would have existed in
 the absence of such programs.';
 (3) in section 453, to read as follows:
`CAPACITY BUILDING, INFORMATION, DISSEMINATION, AND REPLICATION ACTIVITIES
 `SEC. 453. (a) NATIONAL STRATEGY- The Secretary shall develop a national
 strategy for carrying out the activities described in subsection (b)(2)
 and the replication of programs described in subsection (c), and shall
 ensure the implementation of the national strategy.
 `(b) NETWORK-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish a Capacity Building and
 Information and Dissemination Network (referred to in this section as the
 `Network') to enhance the effectiveness of and to strengthen the caliber
 of services provided through programs authorized under this Act and other
 Federal, State, and local employment and training programs.
 `(B) ADMINISTRATION- The Secretary shall establish and maintain such Network--
 `(i) directly;
 `(ii) under an interagency agreement; or
 `(iii) through a grant or contract awarded on a competitive basis to a
 single entity, or to a system of entities coordinated by the Secretary,
 with appropriate expertise.
 `(2) ACTIVITIES- The Network shall--
 `(A) provide, coordinate, and support the development of, appropriate
 training, technical assistance, staff development, and other activities
 that will--
 `(i) enhance the skills, knowledge, and expertise of the personnel who staff
 employment and training and other closely related human service systems,
 including service providers;
 `(ii) improve the quality of services provided to individuals served under
 this Act and other Federal employment and training programs and encourage
 integrated service delivery under such programs using--
 `(I) where cost effective, interactive communication systems and satellite
 technology; and
 `(II) where possible, staff trained in a variety of Federal human resource
 programs;
 `(iii) improve the planning, procurement, and contracting practices pursuant
 to this Act; and
 `(iv) provide broad human services policy and planning training to--
 `(I) private industry council volunteers; and
 `(II) where appropriate, members of State human resource investment councils
 and other State councils;
 `(B) prepare and disseminate staff training curricula and materials,
 primarily using computer-based technologies, for employment and training
 professionals and support staff, that focus on enhancing staff competencies
 and professionalism, including instruction on the administrative requirements
 of this Act, such as procurement and contracting standards and regulations;
 and
 `(C)(i) identify, develop, disseminate, and provide training in the techniques
 learned from, innovative and successful program models, materials, methods,
 and information, by using computer-based technologies for organizing a
 data base and dissemination and communication system for the Network, and
 establishing a computer-based communications and dissemination methodology to
 share information among employment and training personnel and institutions;
 and
 `(ii) in identifying such program models, ensure that consideration shall
 be given to--
 `(I) the size and scope of the program;
 `(II) the length of time that the program has been operating;
 `(III) the nature and reliability of measurable outcomes for the program;
 `(IV) the capacity of the sponsoring organization to provide the technical
 assistance necessary for States and service delivery areas to replicate
 the program; and
 `(V) the likelihood that the program will be successful in diverse economic,
 geographic, and cultural environments.
 `(3) CHARGES- The Network may require cost-sharing to offset the actual
 costs of institute training, materials acquisition, or information
 dissemination. Any resulting income shall be used in accordance with
 section 141(m).
 `(4) COORDINATION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall consult with the Secretaries of
 Education and Health and Human Services, as appropriate, to coordinate
 the activities of the Network with other relevant institutes, centers,
 laboratories, clearinghouses, or dissemination networks, such as the National
 Diffusion Network.
 `(B) COORDINATION WITH REPLICATION GRANT PROGRAM- To the extent possible,
 the Network shall coordinate the activities of the Network with activities
 assisted under the replication grant program conducted under subsection (c).
 `(c) REPLICATION-
 `(1) REPLICATION PROGRAM AUTHORIZED- The Secretary shall make competitive
 grants to public or private nonprofit organizations for technical assistance,
 and to States and service delivery areas for planning and program development,
 to promote the replication of employment and training programs that are
 successful in improving the employment prospects of populations served under
 this Act and that are replicable on a large scale. In making such grants,
 the Secretary shall consider the recommendations described in paragraph
 (2)(B) of the review panel established under paragraph (2)(A) regarding
 such programs.
 `(2) REVIEW PANEL-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall establish a review panel comprised
 of not more than 6 individuals appointed by the Secretary who are recognized
 experts in the operation and evaluation of employment and training programs
 for economically disadvantaged youth and adults, and dislocated workers.
 `(B) RECOMMENDATIONS- The review panel shall make recommendations to the
 Secretary regarding model programs that the panel considers likely to be
 successful in improving such employment prospects of populations served
 under this Act and to be replicable on a large scale.
 `(C) CONSIDERATIONS- In recommending such programs the review panel shall
 use the considerations described in subsection (b)(2)(C)(ii).
 `(D) MEETINGS- The review panel shall meet not more than once each year to
 carry out the responsibilities described in this paragraph.
 `(E) CONFLICT OF INTEREST- No member of such panel shall have a direct
 financial interest in or affiliation with a potential recipient of funds
 under the program authorized by this section.
 `(3) APPLICATIONS-
 `(A) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION- Any public or private nonprofit organization
 desiring to receive such a grant to provide the technical assistance necessary
 for program replication may submit an application to the Secretary at such
 time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as
 the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(B) STATE; SERVICE DELIVERY AREA- Any State or service delivery area
 desiring to receive such a grant for planning and program development
 associated with a replication effort shall submit an application to the
 Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied by
 such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(C) CONTENTS- Each application described in subparagraph (A) or (B)
 shall contain--
 `(i) a description of the program proposed for replication and available
 evidence of the success of the program in improving the employment prospects
 of economically disadvantaged youth and adults, and dislocated workers,
 within each such service delivery area; and
 `(ii) in the case of applications described in subparagraph (A), an assurance
 that the organization will enter into an agreement with the service delivery
 areas in which the program is to be replicated, to participate in the
 replication program.
 `(4) GRANT LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) LIMITATION- In any 3-year period the Secretary shall not approve
 grants for the same replication activities in more than 10 States or
 communities. During such 3-year period, the results of such limited
 replication efforts shall be carefully evaluated and examined by the
 Secretary regarding the advisability of replicating the model program in
 more than 10 States or communities or for longer than 3 years.
 `(B) WAIVER- The Secretary may waive the limitation set forth in subparagraph
 (A) for a program if immediate replication efforts on a larger scale are
 warranted by extensive evaluation of the program prior to designation as
 a model program under this subsection.
 `(5) COORDINATION- To the extent possible, the Secretary shall coordinate
 the activities assisted under the replication grant program conducted
 under this subsection with the activities of the Network under subsection
 (b). The Secretary shall ensure that information on the programs replicated
 under this subsection shall be available through the Network.
 `(d) MANAGEMENT CAPABILITY-
 `(1) GRANTS- From the amounts reserved under section 3(c)(2)(B)(ii)(III)
 for each fiscal year to carry out this subsection, the Secretary may award
 grants to States for the purpose of assisting the States in carrying out
 the activities described in section 202(c)(1)(A).
 `(2) ELIGIBILITY- A State that receives an amount under section 202(c)(1)(A)
 for a fiscal year that is less than $500,000 shall be eligible to receive
 a grant under this subsection for the fiscal year.
 `(3) AMOUNT OF GRANT- The amount of a grant awarded to a State for a fiscal
 year under paragraph (1) shall not exceed the lesser of--
 `(A) $100,000; or
 `(B) the difference obtained by subtracting from $500,000 the amount received
 by the State for the fiscal year under section 202(c)(1)(A).
 `(4) AWARD OF GRANTS- In determining whether to award a grant to a State
 under paragraph (1), and in determining the amount of such a grant, the
 Secretary shall take into account the demonstrated need of the State to
 receive such a grant, as indicated by--
 `(A) the number of service delivery areas in the State; and
 `(B) the demonstrated insufficiency of resources of the State to administer
 State responsibilities under sections 121 and 122.
 `(5) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection
 for a fiscal year, a State shall submit an application at such time, in
 such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require,
 including sufficient information to enable the Secretary to make the
 determinations described in paragraph (4).
 `(6) USE OF FUNDS- The Secretary shall make available to carry out subsections
 (b) and (c) any amounts reserved under section 3(c)(2)(B)(ii)(III) for
 a fiscal year and not expended to make grants under paragraph (1) for
 such year.';
 (4) striking sections 454 through 456; and
 (5)(A) redesignating section 457 as section 456; and
 (B) striking the heading for section 456 (as redesignated by subparagraph
 (A)) and inserting `NONTRADITIONAL EMPLOYMENT DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM'.
 (b) TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Part D of title IV of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 453 the following:
`GUIDANCE ON ELIGIBILITY VERIFICATION
 `SEC. 454. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary shall provide guidance and
 technical assistance, to States and service delivery areas, relating to
 the documentation required to verify the eligibility of participants under
 parts A, B, and C of title II of this Act, particularly the hard-to-serve
 individuals specified in section 203(b) and subsections (b) and (d)
 of section 263. Such documentation shall, to the extent practicable, be
 uniform and standard.
 `(b) GUIDANCE- The guidance provided pursuant to subsection (a), while
 maintaining program integrity, shall--
 `(1) limit the documentation burden to the minimum necessary to adequately
 verify such eligibility; and
 `(2) ensure, to the extent practicable, that the documentation requirements
 shall not discourage the participation of eligible individuals.
 `(c) CONTENTS- The guidance provided pursuant to subsection (a) shall
 specifically address income eligibility, assessment, the determination
 regarding whether an individual is a hard-to-serve individual, and
 specific uniform or standardized documentation forms or procedures
 (including simplified standardized forms, automated intake procedures,
 and self-certification documents) and other documentation proxies (such as
 JOBS and Job Corps eligibility forms).
 `(d) DATE- The Secretary shall provide the guidance described in subsection
 (a) not later than December 18, 1992.'.
SEC. 404. UNIFORM REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) REPORTING; TRAINING NETWORK- Part D of title IV of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1731
 et seq.), is amended by inserting after section 454 (as added by section 403)
 the following new section:
`UNIFORM REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
 `SEC. 455. (a) FINDING- Congress finds that closer coordination and more
 effective use of resources among a variety of employment and training programs
 can be facilitated if the programs have common data elements and definitions.
 `(b) DATA ELEMENTS- The Secretaries of Labor, Education, and Health and Human
 Services, in consultation with other appropriate departments and with the
 National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee, shall identify a
 core set of consistently defined data elements for employment and training
 programs, including those funded under titles II, III, and IV of this Act, the
 Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.), the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and
 Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), the JOBS program,
 and title V of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.).
 `(c) REPORT- The Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress not later
 than January 1, 1994, a report listing recommended data elements and their
 definitions, and containing an analysis of the benefits of the adoption of
 the data elements and definitions.
 `(d) CONSULTATION- The Secretary shall consult with experts and practitioners,
 at the Federal, State, and local levels and in the various program areas,
 in fulfilling the requirements of this section. The Secretary shall also
 consult with the General Accounting Office in fulfilling the requirements
 of this section.'.
SEC. 405. LABOR MARKET INFORMATION.
 (a) COOPERATIVE LABOR MARKET INFORMATION- Section 462 of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1752) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1) Taking into consideration research previously conducted by
 the National Commission for Employment Policy and other entities, the
 Commissioner of Labor Statistics, in cooperation with the States, shall
 determine appropriate procedures for establishing a nationwide database
 containing information on the quarterly earnings, establishment and industry
 affiliation, and geographic location of employment, for all individuals
 for whom such information is collected by the States.
 `(2) The Commissioner of Labor Statistics shall determine appropriate
 procedures for maintaining such information in a longitudinal manner and for
 making such information available for policy research or program evaluation
 purposes or both, while ensuring the confidentiality of information and
 the privacy of individuals.
 `(3) The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Congress, not later
 than 12 months after the date of enactment of the Job Training Reform
 Amendments of 1992, a report that shall describe the costs and benefits,
 including savings on program followup surveys, of a nationwide database
 containing the information described in paragraph (1) and a schedule that
 would allow for the establishment of such a database.
 (b) SPECIAL FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- Section 463(a) of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1753(a)) is amended by inserting `the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services,' after `the Secretary of Education,'.
 (c) NATIONAL OCCUPATIONAL INFORMATION COORDINATING COMMITTEE- Section 464
 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1754) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) in paragraph (1) by striking `not more than $5,000,000' and inserting
 `$6,000,000'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `for Manpower, Reserve Affairs, and
 Logistics' and inserting `Force Management and Personnel'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (2) by inserting after `give special attention to the'
 the following: `career development and'; and
 (B) in paragraph (5) by inserting after `any aspect of occupational and career
 information systems' the following: `and coordination and compatibility of
 human resources data systems operated by Federal agencies or the States,
 including systems to assist economic development activities and, where
 appropriate, provide support to States in the implementation of such system
 improvements.'.
SEC. 406. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE YOUTH FAIR CHANCE PROGRAM.
 Title IV of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) is amended by adding at the
 end the following new part:
`Part H--Youth Fair Chance Program
`SEC. 491. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of the Youth Fair Chance program under this part to--
 `(1) ensure access to education and job training assistance for youth
 residing in high poverty areas of urban and rural communities;
 `(2) provide a comprehensive range of education, training, and employment
 services to disadvantaged youth who are not currently served or are
 underserved by Federal education and job training programs;
 `(3) enable communities with high concentrations of poverty to establish
 and meet goals for improving the opportunities available to youth within
 the community; and
 `(4) facilitate the coordination of comprehensive services to serve youth
 in such communities.
`SEC. 492. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Secretary is authorized to establish
 a national program of Youth Fair Chance grants to pay the Federal share
 attributable to this part of providing comprehensive services to youth
 living in high poverty areas in the cities and rural areas of the Nation.
 `(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS-
 `(1) RECIPIENTS- The Secretary may only award grants under this part to--
 `(A) the service delivery area (on behalf of the participating community)
 in which a target area is located;
 `(B) in the case of a grant involving a target area located in an Indian
 reservation or Alaska Native village, the grantee designated under subsection
 (c) or (d) of section 401, or a consortium of such grantees and the State; or
 `(C) in the case of a grant involving a target area located in a migrant or
 seasonal farmworker community, the grantee designated under section 402(c),
 or a consortium of such grantees and the State.
 `(2) NUMBER OF GRANTS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may award not more than 25 grants during
 the first fiscal year that the program is authorized.
 `(B) INDIAN RESERVATIONS AND ALASKA NATIVE VILLAGES- In awarding grants
 under this part during the first 5 fiscal years that the program is assisted,
 the Secretary shall award--
 `(i) at least 1 grant to a grantee or consortium described in paragraph
 (1)(B); and
 `(ii) at least 1 grant to a grantee or consortium described in paragraph
 (1)(C).
 `(c) RENEWABILITY OF GRANTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Grants awarded under this part shall be for a 1-year
 period. Such a grant shall be renewable for each of the 2 succeeding fiscal
 years if the Secretary determines the grant recipient complied with conditions
 of the grant during the previous fiscal year.
 `(2) EXTENSION- The Secretary may extend the renewal period set forth in
 paragraph (1) for an additional 2 fiscal years on reapplication.
 `(d) FACTORS FOR AWARDS- In awarding grants under this part, the Secretary
 shall consider the quality of the proposed project, the goals to be achieved,
 the likelihood of successful implementation, the extent of community support,
 other Federal and non-Federal funds available for similar purposes, and
 additional State, local, or private resources that will be provided. The
 Secretary shall give priority to participating communities with the highest
 poverty rates.
`SEC. 493.  APPLICATION.
 `(a) ELIGIBILITY TO APPLY- Participating communities that have the highest
 concentrations of poverty, as determined by the Secretary based on the
 latest Bureau of the Census estimates, shall be eligible to apply for a
 Youth Fair Chance grant.
 `(b) CONTENTS OF APPLICATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each participating community desiring a grant under this
 part shall, through the individuals set forth in subsection (c), submit an
 application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied
 by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(2) CONTENTS- Each such application shall--
 `(A) include a comprehensive plan for the Youth Fair Chance initiative
 designed to achieve identifiable goals for youth in the target area;
 `(B) set forth measurable program goals and outcomes, which may include
 increasing the proportion of--
 `(i) youth completing high school or its equivalent;
 `(ii) youth entering into postsecondary institutions, apprenticeships,
 or other advanced training programs;
 `(iii) youth placed in jobs; or
 `(iv) youth participating in education, training, and employment services;
 `(C) include supporting goals for the target area such as increasing security
 and safety, or reducing the number of drug-related arrests;
 `(D) provide assurances that the applicant will comply with the terms of
 the agreement described in section 494;
 `(E) demonstrate how the participating community will make use of the
 resources, expertise, and commitment of institutions of higher education,
 educational agencies, and vocational and technical schools and institutes;
 `(F) provide an assurance that all youth in the target areas will have
 access to a coordinated and comprehensive range of education and training
 opportunities that serve the broadest range of youth interests and needs
 and simultaneously mobilizes the diverse range of education and training
 providers in the participating community;
 `(G) provide assurances that the youth in the target area will have access
 to supportive services necessary for successful participation, including
 such services as child care, transportation, and assistance in resolving
 personal or family crises, such as crises related to substance abuse,
 homelessness, migration, and family violence;
 `(H) include a description of a system of common intake procedures or sites,
 individualized assessment, and case management to be used by the program;
 `(I) demonstrate how the participating community will make use of the
 resources, expertise, and commitment of such programs and service providers
 as--
 `(i) community-based organizations providing vocational skills, literacy
 skills, remedial education, and general equivalency preparation, including
 community-based organizations serving youth with limited-English proficiency;
 `(ii) youth corps programs, including youth conservation and human service
 corps;
 `(iii) Job Corps centers;
 `(iv) apprenticeship programs; and
 `(v) other projects and programs funded under this Act;
 `(J) include an estimate of the expected number of youth in the target area
 to be served;
 `(K) include a description of the resources available in the participating
 community from private, local government, State, and Federal sources that
 will be used to achieve the goals of the program;
 `(L) include an estimate of funds required to ensure access to appropriate
 education, training, and support services for all youth in the target area
 who seek such opportunities; and
 `(M) provide evidence of support for accomplishing the stated goals of the
 participating community from--
 `(i) local elected officials;
 `(ii) the local school system;
 `(iii) appropriate postsecondary education and training institutions;
 `(iv) the applicable private industry council;
 `(v) local community leaders;
 `(vi) business;
 `(vii) labor organizations; and
 `(viii) other appropriate organizations.
 `(c) SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION- The application for funds described in
 subsection (b) may only be submitted to the Secretary on behalf of a
 participating community by--
 `(1) the mayor of a city or the chief elected official in a metropolitan
 statistical area, after the Governor of the State has had an opportunity
 to comment on the application;
 `(2) the chief elected official of a nonmetropolitan county or the designated
 chief elected official of contiguous nonmetropolitan counties, after the
 Governor of the State has had an opportunity to comment on the application; or
 `(3) a grantee or consortium described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of
 section 492(b)(1) in applications for Native American or migrant or seasonal
 farmworker communities, respectively.
`SEC. 494. GRANT AGREEMENT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each grant recipient receiving a grant under this part
 on behalf of a participating community shall enter into an agreement with
 the Secretary.
 `(b) CONTENTS- Each such agreement shall--
 `(1) designate a target area that--
 `(A) will be the focus of the demonstration project; and
 `(B) shall have a population of--
 `(i) not more than 25,000; or
 `(ii) in an appropriate case, not more than 50,000,
except that in the event that the population of an area from which a high
school draws a substantial portion of its enrollment exceeds either limit,
the target area may encompass such boundary;
 `(2) contain assurances that funds provided under this part will be used
 to support education, training, and supportive activities selected from a
 set of youth program models designated by the Secretary or from alternative
 models described in the application and approved by the Secretary, such as--
 `(A) nonresidential learning centers;
 `(B) alternative schools;
 `(C) combined activities including summer remediation, work experience and
 work readiness training, and school-to-work, apprenticeship, or postsecondary
 education programs;
 `(D) teen parent programs;
 `(E) special programs administered by community colleges;
 `(F) youth centers;
 `(G) initiatives aimed at increased rural student enrollment in postsecondary
 institutions;
 `(H) public-private collaborations to assure private sector employment and
 continued learning opportunities for youth; and
 `(I) initiatives, such as youth corps programs, that combine community and
 youth service opportunities with education and training activities;
 `(3) provide that funds received under this part will be used for services
 to youth ages 14 through 21 at the time of enrollment;
 `(4) contain assurances that the local educational agency and any other
 educational agency that operates secondary schools in the target area
 shall provide such activities and resources as are necessary to achieve
 the educational goals specified in the application;
 `(5) contain assurances that the participating community will provide
 such activities and local resources as are necessary to achieve the goals
 specified in the application;
 `(6) contain assurances that the participating community will undertake
 outreach and recruitment efforts in the target area to encourage, to the
 maximum extent possible, participation by the disadvantaged youth who are
 currently unserved, or underserved, by education and training programs,
 including targeted measures specifically designed to enlist the participation
 of youth, particularly males, under the jurisdiction of the child welfare,
 juvenile justice, and criminal justice systems;
 `(7) provide that the participating community will carry out special efforts
 to establish coordination with Federal, State, or local programs that serve
 the target population;
 `(8) provide assurances that funds provided under this part for a fiscal
 year will be used only to pay the Federal share attributable to this part
 of the cost of programs and services not otherwise available in the target
 area and will supplement, and not supplant, funding from other local,
 State, and Federal sources available to youth in the target area during
 the previous year; and
 `(9) permit funds provided under this part to be used to support paid work
 experience programs if such programs are combined with other education and
 training activities.
`SEC. 495. JOB GUARANTEES.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall permit a reasonable number of
 the grant recipients under this part to enter into an agreement to provide,
 in accordance with this section, a job guarantee program to youths meeting
 prior school attendance and performance standards.
 `(b) GUARANTEE AGREEMENTS- A grant recipient providing such a job guarantee
 program shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary, which agreement
 shall--
 `(1) provide that the program be available to youth age 16 to 19 who
 undertake a commitment to continue and complete their high school education;
 `(2) require the grant recipient to guarantee employment to each youth
 undertaking the commitment if such youth meets school attendance and
 performance standards for the previous school semester, as established by
 the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of Education;
 `(3) provide that the grant recipient will make additional services available
 to support the undertaking of any such youth, which shall include counseling,
 job development and placement, and supportive services (including child
 care and transportation);
 `(4) specify the conditions under which funds provided under this part may
 be used to provide wage subsidies of up to 50 percent through employers,
 which conditions shall--
 `(A) encourage subsidies to employers who provide advanced or specialized
 training, or who provide a structured and integrated learning experience
 involving the school and employer; and
 `(B) limit the duration of such subsidies to not more than 1 year;
 `(5) require that the employment provided to any such youth shall not exceed
 15 hours per week during the school year;
 `(6) permit employment to continue through the summer following high school
 graduation, or until the youth reaches age 19, whichever is later; and
 `(7) contain such other terms and conditions as the Secretary requires
 by regulation.
 `(c) SELECTION OF GRANT RECIPIENTS- In determining which grant recipients
 to permit to enter an agreement under this section, the Secretary shall
 seek to target funds to areas with the highest poverty rates.
 `(d) YOUTH ELIGIBILITY- All youth, regardless of income, residing in an
 eligible high poverty area shall be eligible to participate in the job
 guarantee program.
 `(e) PRIVATE FUNDS- Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
 the grant recipient from raising funds to augment such grant if such funds
 are utilized under the conditions of the grant, except that such funds
 shall not be used for administration.
`SEC. 496. PAYMENTS; FEDERAL SHARE.
 `(a) PAYMENTS REQUIRED- In any fiscal year, the amount of a grant awarded
 under this part shall be based on the size of the target area and the extent
 of the poverty in such area, and shall be of sufficient size and scope to
 carry out an effective program under this part.
 `(b) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share attributable to this part of the
 cost of providing comprehensive services as provided in section 492(a)
 shall be not less than 70 percent for each fiscal year a grant recipient
 receives assistance under this Act.
 `(c) OTHER FEDERAL SOURCES- In providing for the remaining share of such
 cost, each grant recipient may provide not more than 20 percent of such
 cost from Federal sources other than funds received pursuant to this part.
 `(d) NON-FEDERAL SHARE- A grant recipient shall provide non-Federal funds
 in an amount not less than 10 percent of such cost, an in-kind contribution
 equivalent to such percent (as determined by the Secretary), or a combination
 thereof.
`SEC. 497. REPORTING.
 `The Secretary is authorized to establish such reporting procedures as are
 necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.
`SEC. 498. FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall provide assistance to participating
 communities in implementing the projects assisted under this part.
 `(b) INDEPENDENT EVALUATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall provide for a thorough, independent
 evaluation of the Youth Fair Chance program to assess the outcomes of youth
 participating in programs assisted under this part.
 `(2) EVALUATION MEASURES- In conducting the evaluation described in paragraph
 (1) the Secretary shall include an assessment of--
 `(A) the impact on youth residing in target areas, including the rates
 of school completion, enrollment in advanced education or training, and
 employment of the youth;
 `(B) the extent to which participating communities fulfilled the goal of
 guaranteed access to appropriate education, training, and supportive services
 to all eligible youth residing in target areas who seek to participate;
 `(C) the effectiveness of guaranteed access to comprehensive services combined
 with outreach and recruitment efforts in enlisting the participation of
 previously unserved or underserved youth residing in target areas;
 `(D) the effectiveness of efforts to integrate service delivery in target
 areas, including systems of common intake, assessment, and case management;
 and
 `(E) the feasibility of extending guaranteed access to comprehensive
 education, training and support services for youth in all areas of the
 United States, including possible approaches to incremental extension of
 such access over time.
 `(c) REPORT- The Secretary shall prepare a report detailing the results of
 the independent evaluation described in subsection (b) and shall submit
 such report to the Congress not later than December 31, 1996, along with
 an analysis of expenditures made, results achieved, and problems in the
 operations and coordination of programs assisted under this part.
 `(d) RESERVATION OF FUNDS- The Secretary may reserve not more than 5 percent
 of the amount appropriated under this part in each fiscal year to carry
 out the provisions of this section.
`SEC. 498A. DEFINITIONS.
 `For the purposes of this part--
 `(1) PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY- The term `participating community'--
 `(A) in the case of a community conducting a project in an urban area,
 means a city in a metropolitan statistical area;
 `(B) in the case of a community conducting a project in a rural area,
 means a nonmetropolitan county or contiguous nonmetropolitan counties;
 `(C) in the case of a community conducting a project in an Indian reservation
 or Alaska Native village, the grantee designated under subsection (c) or
 (d) of section 401, or a consortium of such grantees and the State; or
 `(D) in the case of a community conducting a project in a migrant or
 seasonal farmworker community, the grantee designated under section 402(c),
 or a consortium of such grantees and the State.
 `(2) HIGH POVERTY AREA- The term `high poverty area' means an urban census
 tract, a nonmetropolitan county, a Native American Indian reservation,
 or an Alaska Native village, with a poverty rate of 30 percent or more, as
 determined by the Bureau of the Census, or a migrant or seasonal farmworker
 community.
 `(3) TARGET AREA- The term `target area' means a high poverty area or set
 of contiguous high poverty areas that will be the focus of the program in
 each participating community.'.
SEC. 407. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MICROENTERPRISE GRANTS PROGRAM.
 Title IV of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.), as amended by section 406,
 is further amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part I--Microenterprise Grants Program
`SEC. 499. MICROENTERPRISE GRANTS.
 `(a) PROGRAM AUTHORITY- From the amount appropriated to carry out this section
 for fiscal years 1993 through 1997, the Secretary of Labor shall make grants
 of not more than $500,000 per year to not more than 10 States per year
 to implement and enhance community-based microenterprise activities. Such
 grants shall be an amount adequate to ensure that the activities will be of
 sufficient size and scope to produce substantial benefits. Such activities
 shall be for the benefit of economically disadvantaged persons.
 `(b) USE OF FUNDS- Such funds shall be used, notwithstanding section 141(q)--
 `(1) to train program staff in such entrepreneurial activities as business
 plan development, business management, resource inventory design, and
 marketing approaches, and other activities necessary to provide effective
 entry level training to persons developing a microenterprise;
 `(2) to provide to owners or potential owners of a microenterprise such
 technical assistance (including technical assistance with respect to
 business planning, securing funding, marketing, and production of marketing
 materials) and other assistance as may be necessary to develop microenterprise
 activities; and
 `(3) to provide microenterprise support (such as peer support programs
 and counseling).
 `(c) APPLICATION AND SELECTION- The Secretary shall award grants competitively
 under this section on the basis of--
 `(1) the State commitment, as evidenced by existing or proposed related
 programs and support;
 `(2) evidence of ability to conduct and monitor the microenterprise
 activities;
 `(3) evidence of linkage to private, community-based credit and technical
 assistance providers; and
 `(4) size of the non-Federal match.
 `(d) TIMING- Not later than April 1 of any fiscal year, a State may submit
 to the Secretary an application. Not later than the following June 1, the
 Secretary shall approve not more than 10 of the applications. Not later
 than the following July 1, the Secretary shall authorize the applicant to
 begin the programs. The Secretary may consider making multiyear grants.
 `(e) MATCHING REQUIREMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- No State shall receive a grant under this section unless
 the State agrees to provide, to carry out the microenterprise programs,
 non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 100 percent of Federal
 funds provided under such grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION- The non-Federal contribution may be in cash or in-kind,
 fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services.
 `(f) REPORTS- Each State receiving a grant under this section shall, for
 each fiscal year for which funds are received, submit to the Secretary a
 report that describes--
 `(1) the programs that have been established and developed with such funds,
 including a description of the persons participating and the microenterprises
 developed;
 `(2) the quantitative and qualitative benefits of such programs; and
 `(3) the contributions of such programs to economic self-sufficiency and
 economic development.
 `(g) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
 `(1) MICROENTERPRISE- The term `microenterprise' means a commercial
 enterprise if--
 `(A) the enterprise has 5 or fewer employees, 1 or more of whom owns the
 enterprise; and
 `(B) each of the owners of the enterprise is economically disadvantaged.
 `(2) STATE- The term `State' includes--
 `(A) in the case of a community conducting a project in an Indian reservation
 or Alaska Native village, the grantee designated under subsection (c) or
 (d) of section 401, or a consortium of such grantees and the State; and
 `(B) in the case of a community conducting a project in a migrant or
 seasonal farmworker community, the grantee designated under section 402(c),
 or a consortium of such grantees and the State.'.
SEC. 408. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DISASTER RELIEF PROGRAM.
 Title IV of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.), as amended by sections 406
 and 407, is further amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part J--Disaster Relief Employment Assistance
`SEC. 499A. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
 `(a) QUALIFICATION FOR FUNDS- Funds appropriated to carry out this part
 shall be made available in a timely manner by the Secretary to the Governor
 of any State within which is located an area that has suffered an emergency
 or a major disaster as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, of
 section 102 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5122 (1) and (2))
 (referred to in this part as the `disaster area').
 `(b) SUBSTATE ALLOCATION- Not less than 80 percent of the funds made
 available to any Governor under subsection (a) shall be allocated by the
 Governor to units of general local government located, in whole or in part,
 within such disaster areas. The remainder of such funds may be reserved by the
 Governor for use, in concert with State agencies, in cleanup, rescue, repair,
 renovation, and rebuilding activities associated with such major disaster.
 `(c) COORDINATION- Funds made available under this part to Governors and
 units of general local government shall be expended in consultation with--
 `(1) agencies administering programs for disaster relief provided under
 the Disaster Relief Act of 1974; and
 `(2) the administrative entity and the private industry council in each
 service delivery area within which disaster employment programs will be
 conducted under this part.
`SEC. 499B. USE OF FUNDS.
 `(a) PROJECTS RESTRICTED TO DISASTER AREAS- Funds made available under this
 part to any unit of general local government in a disaster area--
 `(1) shall be used exclusively to provide employment on projects to provide
 food, clothing, shelter, and other humanitarian assistance for disaster
 victims and on projects regarding demolition, cleanup, repair, renovation,
 and reconstruction of damaged and destroyed structures, facilities, and
 lands located within the disaster area; and
 `(2) may be expended through public and private agencies and organizations
 engaged in such projects.
 `(b) ELIGIBLE PARTICIPANTS- An individual shall be eligible to be offered
 disaster employment under this part if such individual is--
 `(1)(A) eligible to participate or enroll, or is a participant or enrolled,
 under title III of this Act, other than an individual who is actively
 engaged in a training program; or
 `(B) eligible to participate in programs or activities assisted under
 section 401 or 402; and
 `(2) unemployed as a consequence of the disaster.
 `(c) LIMITATIONS ON DISASTER RELIEF EMPLOYMENT- No individual shall be
 employed under this part for more than 6 months for work related to recovery
 from a single natural disaster.
 `(d) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be
 necessary to promote the fiscal integrity of programs conducted with funds
 made available under this part.
`SEC. 499C. DEFINITIONS.
 `As used in this part, the term `unit of general local government' includes--
 `(1) in the case of a community conducting a project in an Indian reservation
 or Alaska Native village, the grantee designated under subsection (c) or
 (d) of section 401, or a consortium of such grantees and the State; and
 `(2) in the case of a community conducting a project in a migrant or
 seasonal farmworker community, the grantee designated under section 402(c),
 or a consortium of such grantees and the State.'.
TITLE V--JOBS FOR EMPLOYABLE DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS INCENTIVE BONUS PROGRAM
SEC. 501. JOBS FOR EMPLOYABLE DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS.
 Title V of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1791 et seq.) is amended to read as follows:
`TITLE V--JOBS FOR EMPLOYABLE DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS INCENTIVE BONUS PROGRAM
`SEC. 501. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 `It is the purpose of this title to provide incentives to reduce welfare
 dependency, promote self-sufficiency, increase child support payments,
 and increase employment and earnings of individuals by providing to each
 participating State a bonus for providing job training to--
 `(1) absent parents of children receiving aid to families with dependent
 children under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
 et seq.), who subsequent to such training pay child support for their
 children; and
 `(2) blind or disabled individuals receiving supplemental security income
 under title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq.), who
 subsequent to such training are successfully placed in and retain employment.
`SEC. 502. PAYMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For each program year for which funds are appropriated to
 carry out this title, the Secretary shall pay to each participating State
 the amount that State is eligible to receive under this title.
 `(b) RATABLE REDUCTIONS- If the amount so appropriated is not sufficient to
 pay each State the amount each State is eligible to receive, the Secretary
 shall ratably reduce the amount paid to each State.
 `(c) RATABLE INCREASES- If any additional amount is made available for
 carrying out this title for any program year after the application of
 subsection (b), such additional amount shall be allocated among the States
 by increasing such payments in the same manner as they were reduced, except
 that no such State shall be paid an amount that exceeds the amount that
 the State is eligible to receive under this title.
 `(d) REPROGRAMMING- If the amount appropriated for a program year is in
 excess of the amount necessary to pay each State the amount each State is
 eligible to receive, the Secretary shall allot the excess amount to the
 States for allocation to the service delivery areas in accordance with
 section 202 to carry out part A of title II.
`SEC. 503. AMOUNT OF INCENTIVE BONUS.
 `The amount of the incentive bonus paid to each State shall be the sum of--
 `(1) an amount equal to the total of the amounts of child support paid by
 each individual eligible under section 506(1) within the State, for up to
 2 years after the termination of the individual from activities provided
 under this Act; and
 `(2) an amount equal to the total reduction in the Federal contribution to the
 amounts received under title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1381
 et seq.) by each individual eligible under section 506(2) within the State,
 for up to 2 years after the termination of the individual from activities
 provided under this Act.
`SEC. 504. USE OF INCENTIVE BONUS FUNDS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) ALLOCATION-
 `(A) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS- During any program year, the Governor may use
 an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the total bonus payments of a State
 for administrative costs incurred under this title, including data and
 information collection and compilation, recordkeeping, or the preparation
 of applications for incentive bonuses.
 `(B) DISTRIBUTION OF PAYMENTS- The amount of incentive bonus payments that
 remains after the deduction of administrative costs under subparagraph
 (A) shall be distributed to service delivery areas and Job Corps centers
 within the State in accordance with an agreement between the Governor and
 representatives of such areas and centers. Such agreement shall reflect
 an equitable method of distribution that is based on the degree to which
 the efforts of such area or center contributed to the qualification of the
 State for an incentive bonus payment under this title.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- Not more than 10 percent of the amounts received under
 this title in any program year by each service delivery area and Job
 Corps center may be used for the administrative costs of establishing and
 maintaining systems necessary for operation of programs under this title,
 including the costs of providing incentive payments described in subsection
 (b), technical assistance, data and information collection and compilation,
 management information systems, post-program followup activities, and
 research and evaluation activities. The balance of funds not so expended
 shall be used by each service delivery area for activities described in
 sections 204 and 264, and by each Job Corps center for activities authorized
 under part B of title IV.
 `(b) INCENTIVE PAYMENTS TO SERVICE PROVIDERS- Each service delivery area or
 Job Corps center may make incentive payments to service providers, including
 participating State and local agencies, and community-based organizations,
 that demonstrate effectiveness in delivering employment and training services
 to individuals such as those described in section 506.
 `(c) APPLICATION OF SECTION RELATING TO ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATIONS-
 Section 166 (relating to administrative adjudication) shall apply to the
 distribution of incentive bonus payments under this section.
`SEC. 505. NOTICE AND APPLICATION.
 `(a) NOTICE OF INTENT TO PARTICIPATE- Any State seeking to participate in
 the incentive bonus program established under this title shall notify the
 Secretary of the intent of the State to participate not later than 30 days
 before the beginning of the first program year of participation.
 `(b) APPLICATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any State seeking to receive an incentive bonus under this
 title shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such
 manner, and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary
 may reasonably require in order to ensure compliance with this title.
 `(2) CONTENTS- Each such application shall contain, at a minimum--
 `(A) a list of the eligible individuals in the State who satisfied the
 requirements of section 506 during the program year;
 `(B) the amount of the incentive bonus attributable to each eligible
 individual and due the State under section 503; and
 `(C) certification that documentation is available to verify the eligibility
 of participants and the amount of the incentive bonus claimed by the State.
 `(c) NOTICE OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL- The Secretary shall promptly inform a
 State after receipt of the application as to whether or not the application
 of the State has been approved.
`SEC. 506. ELIGIBILITY FOR INCENTIVE BONUSES.
 `An individual shall be eligible to participate in a program established
 under this title if--
 `(1) the individual--
 `(A) was an absent parent of any child receiving aid to families with
 dependent children under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act at
 the time such individual was determined to be eligible to participate in
 activities provided under this Act;
 `(B) has participated in education, training or other activities (including
 the Job Corps) provided under this Act; and
 `(C) pays child support for a child specified in subparagraph (A) following
 termination from activities provided under this Act; or
 `(2) the individual--
 `(A) is blind or disabled;
 `(B) was receiving benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act
 (relating to supplemental security income) at the time such individual was
 determined to be eligible to participate in activities under this Act;
 `(C) has participated in education, training, or other activities (including
 the Job Corps) provided under this Act; and
 `(D) earns from employment a wage or income.
`SEC. 507. INFORMATION AND DATA COLLECTION.
 `(a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- In order to facilitate the collection, exchange,
 and compilation of data and information required by this title, the Secretary
 is authorized to provide technical assistance to the States. Such assistance
 may include cost-effective methods for using State and Federal records to
 which the Secretary has lawful access.
 `(b) JOINT REGULATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 shall jointly issue regulations regarding the sharing, among public agencies
 participating in the programs assisted under this title, of the data and
 information necessary to fulfill the requirements of this title.
 `(2) SUBJECTS- Such regulations shall ensure--
 `(A) the availability of information necessary to verify the eligibility
 of participants and the amount of the incentive bonus payable; and
 `(B) the maintenance of confidentiality of the information so shared in
 accordance with Federal and State privacy laws.
`SEC. 508. EVALUATION AND REPORT.
 `(a) EVALUATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall conduct or provide for an evaluation
 of the incentive bonus program assisted under this title.
 `(2) CONSIDERATIONS- The Secretary shall consider--
 `(A) whether the program results in increased service under this Act to
 absent parents of children receiving aid to families with dependent children
 under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act and to recipients of
 supplemental security income under title XVI of the Social Security Act;
 `(B) whether the program results in increased child support payments;
 `(C) whether the program is administratively feasible and cost effective;
 `(D) whether the services provided to other eligible participants under
 part A of title II are affected by the implementation and operation of the
 incentive bonus program; and
 `(E) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than January 1, 1997, the Secretary
 shall submit a report to the appropriate committees of the Congress on
 the effectiveness of the incentive bonus program assisted under this
 title. Such report shall include an analysis of the costs of such program
 and the results of program activities.
`SEC. 509. IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS.
 `The Secretary shall promulgate regulations implementing this title not
 later than January 31, 1993.'.
TITLE VI--STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL
SEC. 601. STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new title:
`TITLE VII--STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL
`SEC. 701. ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each State may, in accordance with the requirements of
 this title, establish a single State human resource investment council
 (in this title referred to as the `State Council') that--
 `(1) shall review the provision of services and the use of funds and resources
 under applicable Federal human resource programs and advise the Governor
 on methods of coordinating such provision of services and use of funds and
 resources consistent with the laws and regulations governing such programs;
 `(2) shall advise the Governor on the development and implementation of
 State and local standards and measures relating to applicable Federal human
 resource programs and coordination of such standards and measures;
 `(3) shall carry out the duties and functions prescribed for existing State
 councils described under the laws relating to the applicable Federal human
 resource programs;
 `(4) may identify the human investment needs in the State and recommend to
 the Governor goals for meeting such needs;
 `(5) may recommend to the Governor goals for the development and coordination
 of the human resource system in the State;
 `(6) may prepare and recommend to the Governor a strategic plan to accomplish
 the goals developed pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5); and
 `(7) may monitor the implementation of and evaluate the effectiveness of
 the strategic plan prepared pursuant to paragraph (6).
 `(b) APPLICABLE FEDERAL HUMAN RESOURCE PROGRAM DEFINED-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), for purposes
 of this title, the term `applicable Federal human resource program' includes
 any program authorized under the provisions of law described under paragraph
 (2)(A) that the Governor and the head of the State agency responsible for
 the administration of such program jointly agree to include within the
 jurisdiction of the State Council.
 `(B) With respect to a program authorized under the Carl D. Perkins Vocational
 and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) under paragraph
 (2)(A)(ii), the term `applicable Federal human resource program' shall
 only apply to such program if, in addition to meeting the requirements
 of subparagraph (A), the State council on vocational education agrees to
 include such program under the jurisdiction of the State Council.
 `(2) PROGRAMS- In accordance with the requirements of paragraph (1),
 applicable Federal human resource programs--
 `(A) may include the programs authorized under--
 `(i) this Act;
 `(ii) the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act
 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.);
 `(iii) the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501
 et seq.);
 `(iv) the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq.);
 `(v) the Wagner-Peyser Act (29 U.S.C. 49 et seq.);
 `(vi) part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et
 seq.); and
 `(vii) the employment program established under section 6(d)(4) of the Food
 Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)); and
 `(B) may not include programs authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).
`SEC. 702. COMPOSITION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Each State Council shall be composed as follows:
 `(1) Each State Council shall include the head of each State agency
 responsible for the administration of an applicable Federal human resource
 program.
 `(2)(A) Each State Council shall include one or more representatives,
 appointed by the Governor to the State Council for a minimum of 2 years,
 from each of the following:
 `(i) Local public education.
 `(ii) A postsecondary institution.
 `(iii) A secondary or postsecondary vocational educational institution.
 `(iv) A community-based organization.
 `(B) The total number of representatives appointed under clause (i), (ii),
 and (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall constitute not less than 15 percent of
 the membership of the State Council.
 `(3)(A) Each State Council shall include individuals, appointed by the
 Governor to the State Council for a minimum of 2 years, from among the
 following:
 `(i) Representatives of business and industry, who shall constitute not
 less than 15 percent of the membership of the State Council, including
 individuals who are representatives of business and industry on private
 industry councils established within the State under section 102.
 `(ii) Representatives of organized labor who--
 `(I) shall be selected from among individuals nominated by recognized State
 labor federations; and
 `(II) shall constitute not less than 15 percent of the membership of the
 State Council.
 `(B) If the State labor federation fails to nominate a sufficient number
 of individuals under subclause (I) of subparagraph (A)(ii) to satisfy the
 requirement under subclause (II) of such subparagraph, individual workers
 may be included on the State Council to satisfy such requirement.
 `(b) ADDITIONAL MEMBERS- Each State Council may also include additional
 qualified members, who may be selected from--
 `(1) representatives from local welfare agencies;
 `(2) representatives from public housing agencies;
 `(3) representatives from units of general local government or consortia of
 such units, appointed from nominations made by the chief elected officials
 of such units or consortia;
 `(4) representatives from the State legislature;
 `(5) representatives from any State or local program that receives funding
 under an applicable Federal human resource program that the Governor
 determines to have a direct interest in the utilization of human resources
 within the State; and
 `(6) individuals who have special knowledge and qualifications with respect to
 special education and career development needs of hard-to-serve individuals.
 `(c) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) PERCENTAGE LIMITATION- None of the following categories of individuals
 may constitute more than 60 percent of the membership of each State Council:
 `(A) Individuals selected under subsection (a)(1).
 `(B) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(2).
 `(C) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(3)(A)(i).
 `(D) Individuals appointed under subsection (a)(3)(A)(ii).
 `(E) Individuals selected under subsection (b).
 `(2) EXPERTISE- The Governor shall ensure that both the State Council and the
 staff of the State Council have sufficient expertise to effectively carry
 out the duties and functions of existing State councils described under
 the laws relating to the applicable Federal human resource programs. Such
 expertise shall include, where appropriate, knowledge of--
 `(A) the long-term needs of individuals preparing to enter the workforce;
 `(B) the needs of local, State, and regional labor markets; and
 `(C) the methods for evaluating the effectiveness of vocational training
 programs in serving varying populations.
`SEC. 703. ADMINISTRATION.
 `(a) FUNDING- In order to carry out the functions of the State Council,
 each State establishing a State Council that meets the requirements of this
 title may--
 `(1) use funds otherwise available for State councils under the applicable
 Federal human resource programs;
 `(2) use funds otherwise available under the applicable Federal human resource
 programs, consistent with the laws and regulations governing such programs,
 including funds available to carry out section 123(a)(2)(D), except that,
 with respect to the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology
 Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.), such State may use funds only to
 the extent provided under section 112(g) of such Act; and
 `(3) use funds, services, personnel, facilities and information provided
 by State and local public agencies, with the consent of such agencies.
 `(b) PERSONNEL- Each State Council may obtain the services of such
 professional, technical, and clerical personnel as may be necessary to
 carry out its functions.
 `(c) CERTIFICATION- Each State shall certify to the Secretary the
 establishment and membership of the State Council at least 90 days before
 the beginning of each period of 2 program years for which a job training
 plan is submitted under this Act.
 `(d) EQUITABLE FUNDING- Each State agency participating in a State Council
 under this title is encouraged to provide funds to support such Council in
 a manner consistent with its representation on such Council.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) CARL D. PERKINS VOCATIONAL AND APPLIED TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION ACT
 AMENDMENTS- Section 112 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied
 Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2322) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a), by striking `Each' and inserting `Except as provided
 in subsection (g), each'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g)(1) In lieu of establishing the State council required under subsection
 (a), each State may satisfy the requirements of this section by designating
 the State human resource investment council established in accordance with
 title VII of the Job Training Partnership Act (in this subsection referred to
 as the `State Council') to carry out the duties described in subsection (d).
 `(2) Funds available under subsection (f) may be allotted to the State Council
 to carry out such duties and the other duties of the State Council if the
 Governor and head of the State agency responsible for administration of the
 programs under this Act agree to such an allotment. Only funds available
 under subsection (f) may be so allotted.'.
 (2) ADULT EDUCATION ACT AMENDMENT- Section 332(d) of the Adult Education
 Act (20 U.S.C. 1205a(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(g) DESIGNATION OF STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL UNDER THE
 JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP ACT- (1) The requirements in this section shall
 be satisfied if a State designates the State human resource investment
 council established under title VII of the Job Training Partnership Act
 (in this subsection referred to as the `State Council') to carry out the
 duties described in subsection (f).
 `(2) Funds under this part may be allotted to the State Council to carry
 out such duties and the other duties of the State Council if the Governor
 and the head of the State agency responsible for carrying out programs
 under this Act agree to such an allotment.'.
 (3) STATE JOB TRAINING COORDINATING COUNCIL- Section 122 of the Act (29
 U.S.C. 1532) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a) by striking `Any' and inserting `Except as provided
 in subsection (d), any'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) In lieu of establishing the State council required under subsection
 (a), each State may satisfy the requirements of this section by designating
 the State human resource investment council established in accordance with
 title VII (in this subsection referred to as the `State Council') to carry
 out the duties described in subsection (b).
 `(2) Funding provided to carry out this section may be allotted to the
 State Council to carry out such functions and the other functions of the
 State Council if the Governor and the head of the State agency responsible
 for administration of programs under this Act agree to such an allotment.'.
TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 701. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION PROVISIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this section, this Act and
 the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on July 1, 1993.
 (b) PERFORMANCE STANDARDS- The Secretary of Labor shall issue revised
 performance standards under the amendments made by section 115 as soon as the
 Secretary determines sufficient data are available, but not later than July
 1, 1994, except that with respect to the factor of retention in unsubsidized
 employment specified in section 106(b)(3)(B) of the Job Training Partnership
 Act (as amended by section 115), the requirement that such retention be
 for not less than 6 months shall take effect not later than July 1, 1995.
 (c) INTERIM TRAINING SERVICES FORMULA-
 (1) LEVEL OF FUNDING- If the amount appropriated to carry out parts A and
 C of title II of the Job Training Partnership Act for fiscal year 1993 is
 less than the sum of--
 (A) $25,000,000; and
 (B) the amount appropriated to carry out part A of title II of such Act,
 as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, for fiscal
 year 1992,
the amendment made by section 202 of this Act shall not take effect on July 1,
1993, and section 202 of the Job Training Partnership Act shall be amended
to read as follows:
`SEC. 202. ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 `(a) ALLOTMENT-
 `(1) TERRITORIES- Not more than $5,000,000 of the amount appropriated
 pursuant to section 3(a)(1) for each fiscal year and available for this
 part shall be allotted among Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of
 Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
 `(2) STATES- Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), of the remainder
 of the amount available for this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment in
 each State as compared to the total number of such unemployed individuals
 in all such areas of substantial unemployment in all the States;
 `(B) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative excess
 number of unemployed individuals who reside in each State as compared to
 the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all the States; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged adults within each State compared to the total
 number of economically disadvantaged adults in all States, except that,
 for the allotment for any State in which there is any service delivery
 area described in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii), the allotment shall be based
 on the higher of the number of adults in families with an income below the
 low-income level in such area or the number of economically disadvantaged
 adults in such area.
 `(3) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) STATE MINIMUM- No State shall receive less than one-quarter of 1 percent
 of the amounts available for allotment to the States under this subsection
 from the remainder described in paragraph (2) for each fiscal year.
 `(B) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No State shall be allotted less than 90 percent
 of its allotment percentage for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year
 for which the determination is made.
 `(C) ALLOTMENT PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraph (B), the allotment percentage of a State for a fiscal year
 shall be the percentage of funds allotted to the State under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraph (B), the allocation
 percentage of a State for fiscal year 1992 shall be the percentage of funds
 allotted to the State under section 201, as in effect on the day before
 the date of enactment of the Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992.
 `(b) ALLOCATION TO SERVICE DELIVERY AREAS-
 `(1) FORMULA- The Governor shall, in accordance with section 162, allocate 77
 percent of the allotment of the State under subsection (a) for each fiscal
 year among service delivery areas within the State, and shall ensure that,
 subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), of the amount allocated under
 this subsection--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment in
 each service delivery area as compared to the total number of such unemployed
 individuals in all such areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
 `(B) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative excess
 number of unemployed individuals who reside in each service delivery area
 as compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all
 service delivery areas in the State; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged adults within each service delivery area
 compared to the total number of economically disadvantaged adults in the
 State, except that the allocation for any service delivery area described
 in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii) shall be based on the higher of the number of
 adults in families with an income below the low-income level in such area
 or the number of economically disadvantaged adults in such area.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area within any State shall
 be allocated an amount equal to less than 90 percent of the average of
 its allocation percentage for the 2 preceding fiscal years preceding the
 fiscal year for which the determination is made. If the amounts appropriated
 pursuant to section 3(a)(1) for a fiscal year and available to carry out this
 part are not sufficient to provide an amount equal to at least 90 percent
 of such allocation percentage to each such area, the amounts allocated to
 each area shall be ratably reduced.
 `(B) ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraph (A), the allocation percentage of a service delivery area for
 a fiscal year shall be the percentage of funds allocated to the service
 delivery area under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraph (A), the allocation
 percentage of a service delivery area for fiscal year 1992 shall be the
 percentage of funds allocated to the service delivery area under part A of
 title II.
 `(c) STATE ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) DIVISION- Of the remaining 23 percent of the allotment of the State
 under subsection (a) for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 5 percent of such allotment of the State for each fiscal year shall be
 available to the Governor of the State to be used for overall administration,
 management, and auditing activities relating to programs under this title
 and for activities described in sections 121 and 122;
 `(B) 5 percent of such allotment of each State for each fiscal year shall
 be available to provide incentive grants authorized under section 106(b)(7),
 in accordance with paragraph (2);
 `(C) 8 percent of the allotment of each State for each fiscal year shall
 be available to carry out section 123; and
 `(D) 5 percent of such allotment of each State for each fiscal year shall
 be available to carry out section 204(d).
 `(2) OTHER USES-
 `(A) CAPACITY BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Governor may use up
 to 33 percent of the amount allotted under paragraph (1)(B) for providing
 capacity building and technical assistance to service delivery areas and
 service providers. Such use of funds may include the development and training
 of service delivery area and service provider staff and the development of
 exemplary program activities.
 `(B) NONDUPLICATION AND COORDINATION- Funds used under subparagraph (A)--
 `(i) may not be used to duplicate the activities of the Capacity Building and
 Information and Dissemination Network established under section 453(b); and
 `(ii) shall, to the extent practicable, be used to coordinate the activities
 under subparagraph (A) with the activities of the Network under section
 453(b).
 `(d) DEFINITIONS AND RULE- As used in this section:
 `(1) DEFINITIONS-
 `(A) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED ADULT- The term `economically disadvantaged
 adult' means an individual who is age 22 through 72 and who has, or is a
 member of a family that has, received a total family income (exclusive of
 unemployment compensation, child support payments, and welfare payments)
 that, in relation to family size, was not in excess of the higher of--
 `(i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management
 and Budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the
 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)); or
 `(ii) 70 percent of the lower living standard income level.
 `(B) EXCESS NUMBER- The term `excess number' means--
 `(i) with respect to the excess number of unemployed individuals within
 a State--
 `(I) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in the State; or
 `(II) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in areas of substantial
 unemployment in such State; and
 `(ii) with respect to the excess number of unemployed individuals within
 a service delivery area--
 `(I) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in excess
 of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in the service delivery area; or
 `(II) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in areas of substantial
 unemployment in such service delivery area.
 `(C) STATE- The term `State' means any of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- For the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall,
 as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students
 and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of
 economically disadvantaged adults.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
 on July 1, 1993.
 (d) PERMANENT TRAINING SERVICES FORMULA-
 (1) LEVEL OF FUNDING- If section 202 of the Job Training Partnership Act
 is amended in accordance with subsection (c) and the amount appropriated
 to carry out parts A and C of title II of the Job Training Partnership Act
 for a fiscal year is not less than the sum of--
 (A) $25,000,000; and
 (B) the amount appropriated to carry out part A of title II of such Act,
 as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, for fiscal
 year 1992,
the amendment made by section 202 of this Act shall take effect.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
 on October 1 of the fiscal year described in paragraph (1).
 (e) SUMMER YOUTH PROGRAM TRANSFERS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 205 and the amendment made by such section 205
 shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) TRANSITION- A service delivery area may transfer up to 10 percent
 of the amounts allocated for such area for the summer of 1992 under part
 B of title II of the Job Training Partnership Act for program year 1992
 to provide services to youth pursuant to the program under part A of such
 title, to provide services to youth under such part A, if such transfer is
 approved by the Governor.
 (f) INTERIM TRAINING SERVICES FORMULA-
 (1) LEVEL OF FUNDING- If the amount appropriated to carry out parts A and
 C of title II of the Job Training Partnership Act for fiscal year 1993 is
 less than the sum of--
 (A) $25,000,000; and
 (B) the amount appropriated to carry out part A of title II of such Act,
 as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, for fiscal
 year 1992,
the amendment made by section 207 of this Act shall not take effect on July
1, 1993, and title II of the Job Training Partnership Act shall be amended
by inserting after section 261 of such Act the following:
`SEC. 262. ALLOTMENT AND ALLOCATION.
 `(a) ALLOTMENT-
 `(1) TERRITORIES- Not more than $5,000,000 of the amount appropriated
 pursuant to section 3(a)(1) for each fiscal year and available for this
 part shall be allotted among Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of
 Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Palau.
 `(2) STATES- Subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), of the remainder
 of the amount available for this part for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment in
 each State as compared to the total number of such unemployed individuals
 in all such areas of substantial unemployment in all the States;
 `(B) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative excess
 number of unemployed individuals who reside in each State as compared to
 the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all the States; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allotted on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged youth within each State compared to the total
 number of economically disadvantaged youth in all States, except that, for the
 allotment for any State in which there is any service delivery area described
 in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii), the allotment shall be based on the higher of
 the number of youth in families with an income below the low-income level
 in such area or the number of economically disadvantaged youth in such area.
 `(3) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) STATE MINIMUM- No State shall receive less than one-quarter of 1 percent
 of the amounts available for allotment to the States under this subsection
 from the remainder described in paragraph (2) for each fiscal year.
 `(B) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No State shall be allotted less than 90 percent
 of its allotment percentage for the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year
 for which the determination is made.
 `(C) ALLOTMENT PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraph (B), the allotment percentage of a State for a fiscal year
 shall be the percentage of funds allotted to the State under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraph (B), the allocation
 percentage of a State for fiscal year 1992 shall be the percentage of funds
 allotted to the State under section 201, as in effect on the day before
 the date of enactment of the Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992.
 `(b) ALLOCATION TO SERVICE DELIVERY AREAS-
 `(1) FORMULA- The Governor shall, in accordance with section 162, allocate 82
 percent of the allotment of the State under subsection (a) for each fiscal
 year among service delivery areas within the State, and shall ensure that,
 subject to the provisions of paragraph (3), of the amount allocated under
 this subsection--
 `(A) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of unemployed individuals residing in areas of substantial unemployment in
 each service delivery area as compared to the total number of such unemployed
 individuals in all such areas of substantial unemployment in the State;
 `(B) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative excess
 number of unemployed individuals who reside in each service delivery area
 as compared to the total excess number of unemployed individuals in all
 service delivery areas in the State; and
 `(C) 33 1/3  percent shall be allocated on the basis of the relative number
 of economically disadvantaged youth within each service delivery area
 compared to the total number of economically disadvantaged youth in the
 State, except that the allocation for any service delivery area described
 in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii) shall be based on the higher of the number of
 youth in families with an income below the low-income level in such area
 or the number of economically disadvantaged youth in such area.
 `(2) LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) MINIMUM PERCENTAGE- No service delivery area within any State shall
 be allocated an amount equal to less than 90 percent of the average of
 its allocation percentage for the 2 preceding fiscal years preceding the
 fiscal year for which the determination is made. If the amounts appropriated
 pursuant to section 3(a)(1) for a fiscal year and available to carry out this
 part are not sufficient to provide an amount equal to at least 90 percent
 of such allocation percentage to each such area, the amounts allocated to
 each area shall be ratably reduced.
 `(B) ALLOCATION PERCENTAGE-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), for purposes of
 subparagraph (A), the allocation percentage of a service delivery area for
 a fiscal year shall be the percentage of funds allocated to the service
 delivery area under this subsection.
 `(ii) FISCAL YEAR 1992- For purposes of subparagraph (A), the allocation
 percentage of a service delivery area for fiscal year 1992 shall be the
 percentage of funds allocated to the service delivery area under part A of
 title II.
 `(c) STATE ACTIVITIES-
 `(1) DIVISION- Of the remaining 18 percent of the allotment of the State
 under subsection (a) for each fiscal year--
 `(A) 5 percent of such allotment of the State for each fiscal year shall be
 available to the Governor of the State to be used for overall administration,
 management, and auditing activities relating to programs under this title
 and for activities described in sections 121 and 122;
 `(B) 5 percent of such allotment of each State for each fiscal year shall
 be available to provide incentive grants authorized under section 106(b)(7),
 in accordance with paragraph (2); and
 `(C) 8 percent of the allotment of each State for each fiscal year shall
 be available to carry out section 123.
 `(2) OTHER USES-
 `(A) CAPACITY BUILDING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Governor may use up
 to 33 percent of the amount allotted under paragraph (1)(B) for providing
 capacity building and technical assistance to service delivery areas and
 service providers. Such use of funds may include the development and training
 of service delivery area and service provider staff and the development of
 exemplary program activities.
 `(B) NONDUPLICATION AND COORDINATION- Funds used under subparagraph (A)--
 `(i) may not be used to duplicate the activities of the Capacity Building and
 Information and Dissemination Network established under section 453(b); and
 `(ii) shall, to the extent practicable, be used to coordinate the activities
 under subparagraph (A) with the activities of the Network under section
 453(b).
 `(d) DEFINITIONS AND RULE- As used in this section:
 `(1) DEFINITIONS-
 `(A) ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED YOUTH- The term `economically disadvantaged
 youth' means an individual who is age 16 through 21 and who has, or is a
 member of a family that has, received a total family income (exclusive of
 unemployment compensation, child support payments, and welfare payments)
 that, in relation to family size, was not in excess of the higher of--
 `(i) the official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management
 and Budget, and revised annually in accordance with section 673(2) of the
 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)); or
 `(ii) 70 percent of the lower living standard income level.
 `(B) EXCESS NUMBER- The term `excess number' means--
 `(i) with respect to the excess number of unemployed individuals within
 a State--
 `(I) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in the State; or
 `(II) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in areas of substantial
 unemployment in such State; and
 `(ii) with respect to the excess number of unemployed individuals within
 a service delivery area--
 `(I) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in excess
 of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in the service delivery area; or
 `(II) the number that represents the number of unemployed individuals in
 excess of 4.5 percent of the civilian labor force in areas of substantial
 unemployment in such service delivery area.
 `(C) STATE- The term `State' means any of the several States, the District
 of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULE- For the purposes of this section, the Secretary shall,
 as appropriate and to the extent practicable, exclude college students
 and members of the Armed Forces from the determination of the number of
 economically disadvantaged youth.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
 on July 1, 1993.
 (g) PERMANENT TRAINING SERVICES FORMULA-
 (1) LEVEL OF FUNDING- If title II of the Job Training Partnership Act is
 amended in accordance with subsection (f) and the amount appropriated to
 carry out parts A and C of title II of the Job Training Partnership Act
 for a fiscal year is not less than the sum of--
 (A) $25,000,000; and
 (B) the amount appropriated to carry out part A of title II of such Act,
 as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, for fiscal
 year 1992,
the amendment made by section 207 of this Act shall take effect.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
 on October 1 of the fiscal year described in paragraph (1).
 (h) EVALUATION- The Secretary of Labor shall evaluate the impact of
 programs under title II of the Job Training Partnership Act on participant
 employment, earnings and welfare dependency in multiple sites, using the
 random assignment of individuals to groups receiving services under programs
 authorized under the Job Training Reform Amendments of 1992 to groups not
 receiving such services.
 (i) RULES AND PROCEDURES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Labor may establish such rules and procedures
 as may be necessary to provide for an orderly implementation of the amendments
 made by this Act.
 (2) REVIEW- The Secretary of Labor, the Governors, and the service delivery
 areas shall conduct a comprehensive review of the current policies, practices,
 procedures, and delivery systems relating to programs authorized under
 the Job Training Partnership Act for the purpose of ensuring the effective
 implementation of the amendments made by this Act. Such review shall include
 consideration of the appropriateness of current service delivery area
 designations, the representativeness of current State and local councils,
 the adequacy of current administrative systems, the effectiveness of current
 outreach, service delivery, and coordination activities, and other relevant
 matters.
 (j) IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS- The Secretary of Labor shall issue final
 regulations relating to the implementation of the amendments made by this
 Act not later than December 18, 1992.
SEC. 702. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP ACT-
 (1) Section 4(14) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(14)) is amended by striking
 `section 521(19)' and inserting `section 521(22)'.
 (2) Section 4(23) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(23)) is amended by striking
 `section 1201(h) of the Higher Education Act of 1965' and inserting `section
 1471(23) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965'.
 (3) Subparagraph (C) of section 4(27) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(27)) is
 amended by indenting, and aligning the margin of, such subparagraph so as
 to align with subparagraph (B) of such section.
 (4) Section 121(b)(1) is amended by striking `and 203' and inserting `203,
 or 263'.
 (5) Section 122 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1532) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `section 202(b)(4)' and inserting
 `sections 202(c)(1)(A) and 262(c)(1)(A)';
 (B) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `section 202(a)' and inserting
 `section 202(b) or 262(b)'; and
 (C) in subsection (b)(11)(B), by striking `section 113(b)(9)' and inserting
 `section 113(b)(14)'.
 (6) Section 125(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1535(a)) is amended by striking
 `section 202(b)(4) and'.
 (7) Section 161(b)(2) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1571(b)(2)) is amended by striking
 `sections 452 through 455' and inserting `section 452'.
 (8) Section 161(c) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1571(c)) is repealed.
 (9) Section 172 of the Act is redesignated the second place it appears as
 section 173.
 (10) Section 181 of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1591) is repealed.
 (11) Section 302(b)(2) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1652(b)(2)) is amended by
 striking `part B and this part' and inserting `part A'.
 (12) Section 311(f) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1661(f)) is amended by striking
 `section' and inserting `sections'.
 (13) Section 433(c)(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1703(c)(1)) is amended by
 striking `sections 452 and 455' and inserting `sections 452 and 453'.
 (14) Section 433A of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1703a) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (c)(2), by striking `may be over the maximum age permitted
 by section 423(1), but'; and
 (B) in subsection (e), by striking `section 454' and inserting `section
 452(d)'.
 (15) Section 436(a)(1) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1706(a)(1)) is amended by
 striking `1954' and inserting `1986'.
 (16) Section 462(f)(2) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1752(f)(2)) is amended by
 adding at the end a period.
 (17) Section 472(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1772(a)) is amended by striking
 the 4th sentence.
 (18) Section 473(7) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1773(7)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(A)';
 (B) by striking `, after consultation with the National Council on Vocational
 Education,';
 (C) by striking `; and' and inserting a period; and
 (D) by striking subparagraph (B).
 (19) Section 481(a) of the Act (29 U.S.C. 1781(a)) is amended by striking
 `section 203(a)(1)' and inserting `section 203, 263'.
 (20) Title VI of the Act is amended by redesignating section 505 (29
 U.S.C. 1505) as section 605.
 (b) FOOD STAMP ACT OF 1977- Section 5(l) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977
 (7 U.S.C. 2014(l)) is amended by striking `section 204(5)' and inserting
 `section 204(b)(1)(C) or section 264(c)(1)(A)'.
 (c) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
 to read as follows:
`Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
`Sec. 2. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 3. Authorization of appropriations.
`Sec. 4. Definitions.
`TITLE I--JOB TRAINING PARTNERSHIP
`Part A--Service Delivery System
`Sec. 101. Establishment of service delivery areas.
`Sec. 102. Establishment of private industry council.
`Sec. 103. Functions of private industry council.
`Sec. 104. Job training plan.
`Sec. 105. Review and approval of plan.
`Sec. 106. Performance standards.
`Sec. 107. Selection of service providers.
`Sec. 108. Limitation on certain costs.
`Sec. 109. Recapture and reallotment of unobligated funds.
`Part B--Additional State Responsibilities
`Sec. 121. Governor's coordination and special services plan.
`Sec. 122. State job training coordinating council.
`Sec. 123. State education coordination and grants.
`Sec. 124. Identification of additional imposed requirements.
`Sec. 125. State labor market information programs.
`Sec. 126. Authority of State legislature.
`Sec. 127. Interstate agreements.
`PART C--Program Requirements for Service Delivery System
`Sec. 141. General program requirements.
`Sec. 142. Benefits.
`Sec. 143. Labor standards.
`Sec. 144. Grievance procedure.
`Sec. 145. Prohibition against Federal control of education.
`PART D--Federal and Fiscal Administrative Provisions
`Sec. 161. Program year.
`Sec. 162. Prompt allocation of funds.
`Sec. 163. Monitoring.
`Sec. 164. Fiscal controls; sanctions.
`Sec. 165. Reports, recordkeeping, and investigations.
`Sec. 166. Administrative adjudication.
`Sec. 167. Nondiscrimination.
`Sec. 168. Judicial review.
`Sec. 169. Administrative provisions.
`Sec. 170. Utilization of services and facilities.
`Sec. 171. Obligational authority.
`Sec. 172. Presidential awards for outstanding private sector involvement
in job training programs.
`Sec. 173. Construction.
`PART E--Miscellaneous Provisions
`Sec. 182. Criminal provisions.
`Sec. 183. Reference.
`Sec. 184. Repealers.
`TITLE II--TRAINING SERVICES FOR THE DISADVANTAGED
`PART A--Adult Training Program
`Sec. 201. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 202. Allotment and allocation.
`Sec. 203. Eligibility for services.
`Sec. 204. Program design.
`Sec. 205. Linkages.
`Sec. 206. Transfer of funds.
`PART B--Summer Youth Employment and Training Programs
`Sec. 251. Purpose.
`Sec. 252. Authorization of appropriations; allotment and allocation.
`Sec. 253. Use of funds.
`Sec. 254. Limitations.
`Sec. 255. Applicable provisions.
`Sec. 256. Transfer of funds.
`PART C--Youth Training Program
`Sec. 261. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 262. Allotment and allocation.
`Sec. 263. Eligibility for services.
`Sec. 264. Program design.
`Sec. 265. Linkages.
`Sec. 266. Transfer of funds.
`TITLE III--EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE FOR DISLOCATED WORKERS
`Sec. 301. Definitions.
`Sec. 302. Allotment.
`Sec. 303. Recapture and reallotment of unexpended funds.
`PART A--State Delivery of Services
`Sec. 311. State plan.
`Sec. 312. Substate grantees.
`Sec. 313. Substate plan.
`Sec. 314. Use of funds; services to be provided.
`Sec. 315. Limitations on uses of funds.
`Sec. 316. Retraining services availability.
`Sec. 317. Functions of State job training coordinating council.
`PART B--Federal Responsibilities
`Sec. 321. Federal administration.
`Sec. 322. Federal delivery of dislocated worker services.
`Sec. 323. Allowable activities.
`Sec. 324. Demonstration programs.
`Sec. 325. Defense conversion adjustment program.
`Sec. 326. Clean Air Employment Transition Assistance.
`TITLE IV--FEDERALLY ADMINISTERED PROGRAMS
`PART A--Employment and Training Programs for Native Americans and Migrant
and Seasonal Farmworkers
`Sec. 401. Native American programs.
`Sec. 402. Migrant and seasonal farmworker programs.
`Sec. 403. Grant procedures.
`PART B--Job Corps
`Sec. 421. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 422. Establishment of the Job Corps.
`Sec. 423. Individuals eligible for the Job Corps.
`Sec. 424. Screening and selection of applicants: general provisions.
`Sec. 425. Screening and selection: special limitations.
`Sec. 426. Enrollment and assignment.
`Sec. 427. Job Corps centers.
`Sec. 428. Program activities.
`Sec. 429. Allowances and support.
`Sec. 430. Standards of conduct.
`Sec. 431. Community participation.
`Sec. 432. Counseling and job placement.
`Sec. 433. Experimental and developmental projects and coordination with
other programs.
`Sec. 433A. Job Corps centers for homeless families.
`Sec. 434. Advisory boards and committees.
`Sec. 435. Participation of the States.
`Sec. 436. Application of provisions of Federal law.
`Sec. 437. Special provisions.
`Sec. 438. General provisions.
`Sec. 439. Donations.
`PART C--Veterans' Employment Programs
`Sec. 441. Programs authorized.
`PART D--National Activities
`Sec. 451. National partnership and special training programs.
`Sec. 452. Research, demonstration, and evaluation.
`Sec. 453. Capacity building, information, dissemination, and replication
activities.
`Sec. 454. Guidance and technical assistance.
`Sec. 455. Uniform requirements.
`Sec. 456. Nontraditional employment demonstration program.
`PART E--Labor Market Information
`Sec. 461. Labor market information; availability of funds.
`Sec. 462. Cooperative labor market information program.
`Sec. 463. Special Federal responsibilities.
`Sec. 464. National occupational information coordinating committee.
`Sec. 465. Job bank program.
`PART F--National Commission for Employment Policy
`Sec. 471. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 472. Commission established.
`Sec. 473. Functions of the commission.
`Sec. 474. Administrative provisions.
`Sec. 475. Reports.
`Part G--Training to Fulfill Affirmative Action Obligations
`Sec. 481. Affirmative action.
`Part H--Youth Fair Chance Program
`Sec. 491. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 492. Program authorized.
`Sec. 493. Application.
`Sec. 494. Grant agreement.
`Sec. 495. Job guarantees.
`Sec. 496. Payments; Federal share.
`Sec. 497. Reporting.
`Sec. 498. Federal responsibilities.
`Sec. 498A. Definitions.
`Part I--Microenterprise Grants Program
`Sec. 499. Microenterprise grants.
`Part J--Disaster Relief Employment Assistance
`Sec. 499A. General authority.
`Sec. 499B. Use of funds.
`Sec. 499C. Definitions.
`TITLE V--JOBS FOR EMPLOYABLE DEPENDENT INDIVIDUALS INCENTIVE BONUS PROGRAM
`Sec. 501. Statement of purpose.
`Sec. 502. Payments.
`Sec. 503. Amount of incentive bonus.
`Sec. 504. Use of incentive bonus funds.
`Sec. 505. Notice and application.
`Sec. 506. Eligibility for incentive bonuses.
`Sec. 507. Information and data collection.
`Sec. 508. Evaluation and report.
`Sec. 509. Implementing regulations.
`TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
`Sec. 601. Amendments to the Wagner-Peyser Act.
`Sec. 602. Amendments to part C of title IV of the Social Security Act.
`Sec. 603. Earnings disregard.
`Sec. 604. Enforcement of Military Selective Service Act.
`Sec. 605. State job bank systems.
`TITLE VII--STATE HUMAN RESOURCE INVESTMENT COUNCIL
`Sec. 701. Establishment and functions.
`Sec. 702. Composition.
`Sec. 703. Administration.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.