 
--H.R.4--
H.R.4
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To extend the time for performing certain acts under the internal revenue laws
for individuals performing services as part of the Desert Shield Operation.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF TIME FOR PERFORMING CERTAIN ACTS.
 (a) INDIVIDUALS PERFORMING DESERT SHIELD SERVICES- Section 7508 of the
 Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to time for performing certain acts
 postponed by reason of service in combat zone) is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(f) Treatment of Individuals Performing Desert Shield Services-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Any individual who performed Desert Shield services (and
 the spouse of such individual) shall be entitled to the benefits of this
 section in the same manner as if such services were services referred to
 in subsection (a).
 `(2) DESERT SHIELD SERVICES- For purposes of this subsection, the term
 `Desert Shield services' means any services in the Armed Forces of the
 United States or in support of such Armed Forces if--
 `(A) such services are performed in the area designated by the President
 pursuant to this subparagraph as the `Persian Gulf Desert Shield area', and
 `(B) such services are performed during the period beginning on August 2,
 1990, and ending on the date on which any portion of the area referred to
 in subparagraph (A) is designated by the President as a combat zone pursuant
 to section 112.'
 (b) Interest Allowed on Overpayments-
 (1) Section 7508 of such Code is amended by redesignating subsections (b),
 (c), and (d) as subsections (c), (d), and (e), respectively, and by inserting
 after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) SPECIAL RULE FOR OVERPAYMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subsection (a) shall not apply for purposes of determining
 the amount of interest on any overpayment of tax.
 `(2) SPECIAL RULES- If an individual is entitled to the benefits of
 subsection (a) with respect to any return and such return is timely filed
 (determined after the application of such subsection), subsections (b)(3)
 and (e) of section 6611 shall not apply.'
 (2) Paragraph (2) of section 7508(a) of such Code is amended by striking
 `(including interest)'.
 (c) Extension Available for Hospitalization in the United States-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subsection (a) of section 7508 of such Code is amended--
 (A) by striking `outside the United States' the first place it appears, and
 (B) by striking `the period of continuous hospitalization outside the United
 States' and inserting `the period of continuous qualified hospitalization'.
 (2) QUALIFIED HOSPITALIZATION- Section 7508 of such Code is amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(g) QUALIFIED HOSPITALIZATION- For purposes of subsection (a), the term
 `qualified hospitalization' means--
 `(1) any hospitalization outside the United States, and
 `(2) any hospitalization inside the United States, except that not more than
 5 years of hospitalization may be taken into account under this paragraph.
Paragraph (2) shall not apply for purposes of applying this section with
respect to the spouse of an individual entitled to the benefits of subsection
(a).'
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on August 2, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.