 
--H.R.5575--
H.R.5575
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize certain additional uses of the Library of Congress Special
Facilities Center, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. LIBRARY OF CONGRESS SPECIAL FACILITIES CENTER.
  Section 205(a) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 (2
  U.S.C. 141 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:
  `The property acquired under this section shall be known as the  `Library
  of Congress Special Facilities Center' (hereinafter in this section referred
  to as the `Center').'.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL USES OF THE CENTER.
  Section 205(g) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 (2
  U.S.C. 141 note) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by striking out `and' after the semicolon;
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (6); and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraphs:
  `(3) for external training;
  `(4) for general assembly and education programs of the Library;
  `(5) for temporary living quarters and common areas for visiting scholars
  using the collections of the Library or participating in the programs of
  the Library; and'.
SEC. 3. FEES FOR USE OF THE CENTER.
  Section 205 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 (2 U.S.C. 141
  note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(h)(1) The Librarian of Congress--
  `(A) may charge fees for use of the Center under paragraphs (3), (4), and
  (5) of subsection (g); and
  `(B) shall deposit the fees in the fund under paragraph (2).
  `(2) There is established in the Treasury a fund which shall consist of
  amounts deposited under paragraph (1) and such other amounts as may be
  appropriated to the fund. The fund shall be--
  `(A) available to the Librarian of Congress, in amounts specified in
  appropriations Acts, for the expenses of the Center; and
  `(B) subject to audit by the Comptroller General at the discretion of the
  Comptroller General.'.
SEC. 4. TEMPORARY RESTRICTION ON EVENING USE OF THE CENTER.
  No evening meetings may be held at the Library of Congress Special Facilities
  Center until an on-site parking plan for the property is approved by the
  Joint Committee on the Library.
SEC. 5. REPEAL OF DUPLICATE PROVISIONS OF LAW.
  Effective November 15, 1990, sections 1, 2, and 4 of the Act entitled `An
  Act to authorize acquisition of certain real property for the Library of
  Congress, and for other purposes', approved November 15, 1990 (2 U.S.C. 141
  note) are repealed.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.