 
--H.R.6133--
H.R.6133
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To enable the United States to maintain its leadership in land remote sensing
by providing data continuity for the Landsat program, to establish a new
national land remote sensing policy, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION. 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Land Remote Sensing Policy Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds and declares the following:
  (1) The continuous collection and utilization of land remote sensing data
  from space are of major benefit in studying and understanding human impacts
  on the global environment, in managing the Earth's natural resources, in
  carrying out national security functions, and in planning and conducting
  many other activities of scientific, economic, and social importance.
  (2) The Federal Government's Landsat system established the United States
  as the world leader in land remote sensing technology.
  (3) The national interest of the United States lies in maintaining
  international leadership in satellite land remote sensing and in broadly
  promoting the beneficial use of remote sensing data.
  (4) The cost of Landsat data has impeded the use of such data for scientific
  purposes, such as for global environmental change research, as well as
  for other public sector applications.
  (5) Given the importance of the Landsat program to the United States,
  urgent actions, including expedited procurement procedures, are required
  to ensure data continuity.
  (6) Full commercialization of the Landsat program cannot be achieved within
  the foreseeable future, and thus should not serve as the near-term goal
  of national policy on land remote sensing; however, commercialization of
  land remote sensing should remain a long-term goal of United States policy.
  (7) Despite the success and importance of the Landsat system, funding
  and organizational uncertainties over the past several years have placed
  its future in doubt and have jeopardized United States leadership in land
  remote sensing.
  (8) Recognizing the importance of the Landsat program in helping to meet
  national and commercial objectives, the President approved, on February 11,
  1992, a National Space Policy Directive which was developed by the National
  Space Council and commits the United States to ensuring the continuity of
  Landsat coverage into the 21st century.
  (9) Because Landsat data are particularly important for national
  security purposes and global environmental change research, management
  responsibilities for the program should be transferred from the Department
  of Commerce to an integrated program management involving the Department
  of Defense and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  (10) Regardless of management responsibilities for the Landsat program,
  the Nation's broad civilian, national security, commercial, and foreign
  policy interests in remote sensing will best be served by ensuring that
  Landsat remains an unclassified program that operates according to the
  principles of open skies and nondiscriminatory access.
  (11) Technological advances aimed at reducing the size and weight of
  satellite systems hold the potential for dramatic reductions in the cost,
  and substantial improvements in the capabilities, of future land remote
  sensing systems, but such technological advances have not been demonstrated
  for land remote sensing and therefore cannot be relied upon as the sole
  means of achieving data continuity for the Landsat program.
  (12) A technology demonstration program involving advanced remote sensing
  technologies could serve a vital role in determining the design of a
  follow-on spacecraft to Landsat 7, while also helping to determine whether
  such a spacecraft should be funded by the United States Government, by
  the private sector, or by an international consortium.
  (13) To maximize the value of the Landsat program to the American public,
  unenhanced Landsat 4 through 6 data should be made available, at a minimum,
  to United States Government agencies, to global environmental change
  researchers, and to other researchers who are financially supported by
  the United States Government, at the cost of fulfilling user requests,
  and unenhanced Landsat 7 data should be made available to all users at
  the cost of fulfilling user requests.
  (14) To stimulate development of the commercial market for unenhanced data
  and value-added services, the United States Government should adopt a data
  policy for Landsat 7 which allows competition within the private sector
  for distribution of unenhanced data and value-added services.
  (15) Development of the remote sensing market and the provision of commercial
  value-added services based on remote sensing data should remain exclusively
  the function of the private sector.
  (16) It is in the best interest of the United States to maintain a permanent,
  comprehensive Government archive of global Landsat and other land remote
  sensing data for long-term monitoring and study of the changing global
  environment.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  In this Act, the following definitions apply:
  (1) The term `Administrator' means the Administrator of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  (2) The term `cost of fulfilling user requests' means the incremental costs
  associated with providing product generation, reproduction, and distribution
  of unenhanced data in response to user requests and shall not include any
  acquisition, amortization, or depreciation of capital assets originally
  paid for by the United States Government or other costs not specifically
  attributable to fulfilling user requests.
  (3) The term `data continuity' means the continued acquisition and
  availability of unenhanced data which are, from the point of view of
  the user--
  (A) sufficiently consistent (in terms of acquisition geometry, coverage
  characteristics, and spectral characteristics) with previous Landsat
  data to allow comparisons for global and regional change detection and
  characterization; and
  (B) compatible with such data and with methods used to receive and process
  such data.
  (4) The term `data preprocessing' may include--
  (A) rectification of system and sensor distortions in land remote sensing
  data as it is received directly from the satellite in preparation for
  delivery to a user;
  (B) registration of such data with respect to features of the Earth; and
  (C) calibration of spectral response with respect to such data, but does
  not include conclusions, manipulations, or calculations derived from such
  data, or a combination of such data with other data.
  (5) The term `land remote sensing' means the collection of data which
  can be processed into imagery of surface features of the Earth from an
  unclassified satellite or satellites, other than an operational United
  States Government weather satellite.
  (6) The term `Landsat Program Management' means the integrated program
  management structure--
  (A) established by, and responsible to, the Administrator and the Secretary
  of Defense pursuant to section 101(a); and
  (B) consisting of appropriate officers and employees of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Department of Defense, and
  any other United States Government agencies the President designates as
  responsible for the Landsat program.
  (7) The term `Landsat system' means Landsats 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, and
  any follow-on land remote sensing system operated and owned by the United
  States Government, along with any related ground equipment, systems,
  and facilities owned by the United States Government.
  (8) The term `Landsat 6 contractor' means the private sector entity which
  was awarded the contract for spacecraft construction, operations, and data
  marketing rights for the Landsat 6 spacecraft.
  (9) The term `Landsat 7' means the follow-on satellite to Landsat 6.
  (10) The term `National Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive' means
  the archive established by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to the
  archival responsibilities defined in section 502.
  (11) The term `noncommercial purposes' refers to those activities undertaken
  by individuals or entities on the condition, upon receipt of unenhanced
  data, that--
  (A) such data shall not be used in connection with any bid for a commercial
  contract, development of a commercial product, or any other non-United
  States Government activity that is expected, or has the potential, to
  be profitmaking;
  (B) the results of such activities are disclosed in a timely and complete
  fashion in the open technical literature or other method of public
  release, except when such disclosure by the United States Government or
  its contractors would adversely affect the national security or foreign
  policy of the United States or violate a provision of law or regulation; and
  (C) such data shall not be distributed in competition with unenhanced data
  provided by the Landsat 6 contractor.
  (12) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce.
  (13) The term `unenhanced data' means land remote sensing signals or
  imagery products that are unprocessed or subject only to data preprocessing.
  (14) The term `United States Government and its affiliated users' means--
  (A) United States Government agencies;
  (B) researchers involved with the United States Global Change Research
  Program and its international counterpart programs; and
  (C) other researchers and international entities that have signed with
  the United States Government a cooperative agreement involving the use of
  Landsat data for noncommercial purposes.
SEC. 4. REPEAL OF LAND REMOTE-SENSING COMMERCIALIZATION ACT OF 1984.
  The Land Remote-Sensing Commercialization Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4201 et
  seq.) is repealed.
TITLE I--LANDSAT
SEC. 101. LANDSAT PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Administrator and the Secretary of Defense shall
  be responsible for management of the Landsat program. Such responsibility
  shall be carried out by establishing an integrated program management
  structure for the Landsat system.
  (b) MANAGEMENT PLAN- The Administrator, the Secretary of Defense, and
  any other United States Government official the President designates as
  responsible for part of the Landsat program, shall establish, through a
  management plan, the roles, responsibilities, and funding expectations
  for the Landsat Program of the appropriate United States Government
  agencies. The management plan shall--
  (1) specify that the fundamental goal of the Landsat Program Management
  is the continuity of unenhanced Landsat data through the acquisition and
  operation of a Landsat 7 satellite as quickly as practicable which is,
  at a minimum, functionally equivalent to the Landsat 6 satellite, with the
  addition of a tracking and data relay satellite communications capability;
  (2) include a baseline funding profile that--
  (A) is mutually acceptable to the National Aeronautics and Space
  Administration and the Department of Defense for the period covering the
  development and operation of Landsat 7; and
  (B) provides for total funding responsibility of the National Aeronautics
  and Space Administration and the Department of Defense, respectively,
  to be approximately equal to the funding responsibility of the other as
  spread across the development and operational life of Landsat 7;
  (3) specify that any improvements over the Landsat 6 functional equivalent
  capability for Landsat 7 will be funded by a specific sponsoring agency
  or agencies, in a manner agreed to by the Landsat Program Management,
  if the required funding exceeds the baseline funding profile required by
  paragraph (2), and that additional improvements will be sought only if
  the improvements will not jeopardize data continuity; and
  (4) provide for a technology demonstration program whose objective shall
  be the demonstration of advanced land remote sensing technologies that may
  potentially yield a system which is less expensive to build and operate,
  and more responsive to data users, than is the current Landsat system.
  (c) RESPONSIBILITIES- The Landsat Program Management shall be responsible
  for--
  (1) Landsat 7 procurement, launch, and operations;
  (2) ensuring that the operation of the Landsat system is responsive to
  the broad interests of the civilian, national security, commercial, and
  foreign users of the Landsat system;
  (3) ensuring that all unenhanced Landsat data remain unclassified and that,
  except as provided in section 506 (a) and (b), no restrictions are placed
  on the availability of unenhanced data;
  (4) ensuring that land remote sensing data of high priority locations will be
  acquired by the Landsat 7 system as required to meet the needs of the United
  States Global Change Research Program, as established in the Global Change
  Research Act of 1990, and to meet the needs of national security users;
  (5) Landsat data responsibilities pursuant to this Act;
  (6) oversight of Landsat contracts entered into under sections 102 and 103;
  (7) coordination of a technology demonstration program, pursuant to section
  303; and
  (8) ensuring that copies of data acquired by the Landsat system are provided
  to the National Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive.
  (d) AUTHORITY TO CONTRACT- The Landsat Program Management may, subject to
  appropriations and only under the existing contract authority of the United
  States Government agencies that compose the Landsat Program Management,
  enter into contracts with the private sector for services such as, but
  not limited to, satellite operations and data preprocessing.
  (e) Landsat Advisory Process-
  (1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Landsat Program Management shall seek impartial
  advice and comments regarding the status, effectiveness, and operation of
  the Landsat system, using existing advisory committees and other appropriate
  mechanisms. Such advice shall be sought from individuals who represent--
  (A) a broad range of perspectives on basic and applied science and
  operational needs with respect to land remote sensing data;
  (B) the full spectrum of users of Landsat data, including representatives
  from United States Government agencies, State and local government agencies,
  academic institutions, nonprofit organizations, value-added companies,
  the agricultural, mineral extraction, and other user industries, and the
  public, and
  (C) a broad diversity of age groups, sexes, and races.
  (2) REPORTS- Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act
  and biennially thereafter, the Landsat Program Management shall prepare
  and submit a report to the Congress which--
  (A) reports the public comments received pursuant to paragraph (1); and
  (B) includes--
  (i) a response to the public comments received pursuant to paragraph (1);
  (ii) information on the volume of use, by category, of data from the
  Landsat system; and
  (iii) any recommendations for policy or programmatic changes to improve
  the utility and operation of the Landsat system.
SEC. 102. PROCUREMENT OF LANDSAT 7.
  (a) CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS- The Landsat Program Management shall, subject to
  appropriations and only under the existing contract authority of the United
  States Government agencies that compose the Landsat Program Management,
  expeditiously contract with a United States private sector entity for the
  development and delivery of Landsat 7.
  (b) DEVELOPMENT AND DELIVERY CONSIDERATION- In negotiating a contract
  under this section for the development and delivery of Landsat 7, the
  Landsat Program Management shall--
  (1) seek, as a fundamental objective, to have Landsat 7 operational by
  the expected end of the design life of Landsat 6;
  (2) seek to ensure data continuity by the development and delivery of a
  satellite which is, at a minimum, functionally equivalent to the Landsat
  6 satellite; and
  (3) seek to incorporate in Landsat 7 any performance improvements required
  to meet United States Government needs that would not jeopardize data
  continuity.
  (c) NOTIFICATION OF COST AND SCHEDULE CHANGES- The Landsat Program Management
  shall promptly notify the Congress of any significant deviations from
  the expected cost, delivery date, and launch date of Landsat 7, that are
  specified by the Landsat Program Management upon award of the contract
  under this section.
  (d) UNITED STATES PRIVATE SECTOR ENTITIES- The Landsat Program Management
  shall, for purposes of this Act, define the term `United States private
  sector entities', taking into account the location of operations, assets,
  personnel, and other such factors.
SEC. 103. DATA POLICY FOR LANDSAT 4 THROUGH 6.
  (a) CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS- Within 30 days after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Landsat Program Management shall enter into negotiations
  with the Landsat 6 contractor to formalize an arrangement with respect
  to pricing, distribution, acquisition, archiving, and availability of
  unenhanced data for which the Landsat 6 contractor has responsibility under
  its contract. Such arrangement shall provide for a phased transition to a
  data policy consistent with the Landsat 7 data policy (developed pursuant
  to section 105) by the date of initial operation of Landsat 7. Conditions
  of the phased arrangement should require that the Landsat 6 contractor
  adopt provisions so that by the final phase of the transition period--
  (1) such unenhanced data shall be provided, at a minimum, to the United
  States Government and its affiliated users at the cost of fulfilling user
  requests, on the condition that such unenhanced data are used solely for
  noncommercial purposes;
  (2) instructional data sets, selected from the Landsat data archives, will
  be made available to educational institutions exclusively for noncommercial,
  educational purposes at the cost of fulfilling user requests;
  (3) Landsat data users are able to acquire unenhanced data contained in
  the collective archives of foreign ground stations as easily and affordably
  as practicable;
  (4) adequate data necessary to meet the needs of global environmental
  change researchers and national security users are acquired;
  (5) the United States Government and its affiliated users shall not be
  prohibited from reproduction or dissemination of unenhanced data to other
  agencies of the United States Government and other affiliated users, on
  the condition that such unenhanced data are used solely for noncommercial
  purposes;
  (6) nonprofit, public interest entities receive vouchers, data grants,
  or other such means of providing them with unenhanced data at the cost of
  fulfilling user requests, on the condition that such unenhanced data are
  used solely for noncommercial purposes.
  (7) a viable role for the private sector in the promotion and development
  of the commercial market for value added and other services using unenhanced
  data from the Landsat system is preserved; and
  (8) unenhanced data from the Landsat system are provided to the National
  Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive at no more than the cost of
  fulfilling user requests.
  (b) FAILURE TO REACH AGREEMENT- If negotiations under subsection (a) have
  not, by September 30, 1993, resulted in an agreement that the Landsat
  Program Management determines generally achieves the goals stated in
  subsection (b) (1) through (8), the Administrator and the Secretary of
  Defense shall, within 30 days after the date of such determination, jointly
  certify and report such determination to the Congress. The report shall
  include a review of options and projected costs for achieving such goals,
  and shall include recommendations for achieving such goals. The options
  reviewed shall include--
  (1) retaining the existing or modified contract with the Landsat 6
  contractor;
  (2) the termination of existing contracts for the exclusive right to market
  unenhanced Landsat data; and
  (3) the establishment of an alternative private sector mechanism for the
  marketing and commercial distribution of such data.
SEC. 104. TRANSFER OF LANDSAT 6 PROGRAM RESPONSIBILITIES.
  The responsibilities of the Secretary with respect to Landsat 6 shall be
  transferred to the Landsat Program Management, as agreed to between the
  Secretary and the Landsat Program Management, pursuant to section 101.
SEC. 105. DATA POLICY FOR LANDSAT 7.
  (a) LANDSAT 7 DATA POLICY- The Landsat Program Management, in consultation
  with other appropriate United States Government agencies, shall develop
  a data policy for Landsat 7 which should--
  (1) ensure that unenhanced data are available to all users at the cost of
  fulfilling user requests;
  (2) ensure timely and dependable delivery of unenhanced data to the full
  spectrum of civilian, national security, commercial, and foreign users
  and the National Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive;
  (3) ensure that the United States retains ownership of all unenhanced data
  generated by Landsat 7;
  (4) support the development of the commercial market for remote sensing data;
  (5) ensure that the provision of commercial value-added services based
  on remote sensing data remains exclusively the function of the private
  sector; and
  (6) to the extent possible, ensure that the data distribution system
  for Landsat 7 is compatible with the Earth Observing System Data and
  Information System.
  (b) In addition, the data policy for Landsat 7 may provide for--
  (1) United States private sector entities to operate ground receiving
  stations in the United States for Landsat 7 data;
  (2) other means for direct access by private sector entities to unenhanced
  data from Landsat 7; and
  (3) the United States Government to charge a per image fee, license fee,
  or other such fee to entities operating ground receiving stations or
  distributing Landsat 7 data.
  (c) LANDSAT 7 DATA POLICY PLAN- Not later than July 15, 1994, the Landsat
  Program Management shall develop and submit to Congress a report that
  contains a Landsat 7 Data Policy Plan. This plan shall define the roles
  and responsibilities of the various public and private sector entities
  that would be involved in the acquisition, processing, distribution, and
  archiving of Landsat 7 data and in operations of the Landsat 7 spacecraft.
  (d) REPORTS- Not later than 12 months after submission of the Landsat 7
  Data Policy Plan, required by subsection (c), and annually thereafter until
  the launch of Landsat 7, the Landsat Program Management, in consultation
  with representatives of appropriate United States Government agencies,
  shall prepare and submit a report to the Congress which--
  (1) provides justification for the Landsat 7 data policy in terms of the
  civilian, national security, commercial, and foreign policy needs of the
  United States; and
  (2) provides justification for any elements of the Landsat 7 data policy
  which are not consistent with the provisions of subsection (a).
TITLE II--LICENSING OF PRIVATE REMOTE SENSING SPACE SYSTEMS
SEC. 201. GENERAL LICENSING AUTHORITY.
  (a) LICENSING AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY- (1) In consultation with other
  appropriate United States Government agencies, the Secretary is authorized
  to license private sector parties to operate private remote sensing space
  systems for such period as the Secretary may specify and in accordance
  with the provisions of this title.
  (2) In the case of a private space system that is used for remote sensing
  and other purposes, the authority of the Secretary under this title shall
  be limited only to the remote sensing operations of such space system.
  (b) COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW, REGULATIONS, INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS, AND
  NATIONAL SECURITY- No license shall be granted by the Secretary unless
  the Secretary determines in writing that the applicant will comply with
  the requirements of this Act, any regulations issued pursuant to this Act,
  and any applicable international obligations and national security concerns
  of the United States.
  (c) DEADLINE FOR ACTION ON APPLICATION- The Secretary shall review any
  application and make a determination thereon within 120 days of the receipt
  of such application. If final action has not occurred within such time,
  the Secretary shall inform the applicant of any pending issues and of
  actions required to resolve them.
  (d) IMPROPER BASIS FOR DENIAL- The Secretary shall not deny such license
  in order to protect any existing licensee from competition.
  (e) REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE UNENHANCED DATA- (1) The Secretary, in
  consultation with other appropriate United States Government agencies and
  pursuant to paragraph (2), shall designate in a license issued pursuant
  to this title any unenhanced data required to be provided by the licensee
  under section 202(b)(3).
  (2) The Secretary shall make a designation under paragraph (1) after
  determining that--
  (A) such data are generated by a system for which all or a substantial
  part of the development, fabrication, launch, or operations costs have
  been or will be directly funded by the United States Government; or
  (B) it is in the interest of the United States to require such data to be
  provided by the licensee consistent with section 202(b)(3), after considering
  the impact on the licensee and the importance of promoting widespread
  access to remote sensing data from United States and foreign systems.
  (3) A designation made by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall not be
  inconsistent with any contract or other arrangement entered into between
  a United States Government agency and the licensee.
SEC. 202. CONDITIONS FOR OPERATION.
  (a) LICENSE REQUIRED FOR OPERATION- No person who is subject to the
  jurisdiction or control of the United States may, directly or through any
  subsidiary or affiliate, operate any private remote sensing space system
  without a license pursuant to section 201.
  (b) LICENSING REQUIREMENTS- Any license issued pursuant to this title
  shall specify that the licensee shall comply with all of the requirements
  of this Act and shall--
  (1) operate the system in such manner as to preserve the national security
  of the United States and to observe the international obligations of the
  United States in accordance with section 506;
  (2) make available to the government of any country (including the United
  States) unenhanced data collected by the system concerning the territory
  under the jurisdiction of such government as soon as such data are available
  and on reasonable terms and conditions;
  (3) make unenhanced data designated by the Secretary in the license pursuant
  to section 201(e) available in accordance with section 501;
  (4) upon termination of operations under the license, make disposition of
  any satellites in space in a manner satisfactory to the President;
  (5) furnish the Secretary with complete orbit and data collection
  characteristics of the system, and inform the Secretary immediately of
  any deviation; and
  (6) notify the Secretary of any agreement the licensee intends to enter
  with a foreign nation, entity, or consortium involving foreign nations
  or entities.
  (c) ADDITIONAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS FOR LANDSAT 6 CONTRACTOR- In addition
  to the requirements of paragraph (b), any license issued pursuant to
  this title to the Landsat 6 contractor shall specify that the Landsat 6
  contractor shall--
  (1) notify the Secretary of any value added activities (as defined by the
  Secretary by regulation) that will be conducted by the Landsat 6 contractor
  or by a subsidiary or affiliate; and
  (2) if such activities are to be conducted, provide the Secretary with a
  plan for compliance with section 501 of this Act.
SEC. 203. ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY.
  (a) FUNCTIONS- In order to carry out the responsibilities specified in
  this title, the Secretary may--
  (1) grant, condition, or transfer licenses under this Act;
  (2) seek an order of injunction or similar judicial determination from a
  United States District Court with personal jurisdiction over the licensee
  to terminate, modify, or suspend licenses under this title and to terminate
  licensed operations on an immediate basis, if the Secretary determines that
  the licensee has substantially failed to comply with any provisions of this
  Act, with any terms, conditions, or restrictions of such license, or with any
  international obligations or national security concerns of the United States.
  (3) provide penalties for noncompliance with the requirements of licenses
  or regulations issued under this title, including civil penalties not to
  exceed $10,000 (each day of operation in violation of such licenses or
  regulations constituting a separate violation);
  (4) compromise, modify, or remit any such civil penalty;
  (5) issue subpoenas for any materials, documents, or records, or for the
  attendance and testimony of witnesses for the purpose of conducting a
  hearing under this section;
  (6) seize any object, record, or report pursuant to a warrant from a
  magistrate based on a showing of probable cause to believe that such
  object, record, or report was used, is being used, or is likely to be used
  in violation of this Act or the requirements of a license or regulation
  issued thereunder; and
  (7) make investigations and inquiries and administer to or take from any
  person an oath, affirmation, or affidavit concerning any matter relating
  to the enforcement of this Act.
  (b) REVIEW OF AGENCY ACTION- Any applicant or licensee who makes a
  timely request for review of an adverse action pursuant to subsection
  (a)(1), (a)(3), (a)(5), or (a)(6) shall be entitled to adjudication by
  the Secretary on the record after an opportunity for any agency hearing
  with respect to such adverse action. Any final action by the Secretary
  under this subsection shall be subject to judicial review under chapter
  7 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 204. REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY.
  The Secretary may issue regulations to carry out this title. Such regulations
  shall be promulgated only after public notice and comment in accordance
  with the provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 205. AGENCY ACTIVITIES.
  (a) LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE- A private sector party may apply for
  a license to operate a private remote sensing space system which utilizes,
  on a space-available basis, a civilian United States Government satellite
  or vehicle as a platform for such system. The Secretary, pursuant to this
  title, may license such system if it meets all conditions of this title and--
  (1) the system operator agrees to reimburse the Government in a timely
  manner for all related costs incurred with respect to such utilization,
  including a reasonable and proportionate share of fixed, platform, data
  transmission, and launch costs; and
  (2) such utilization would not interfere with or otherwise compromise
  intended civilian Government missions, as determined by the agency
  responsible for such civilian platform.
  (b) ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may offer assistance to private sector
  parties in finding appropriate opportunities for such utilization.
  (c) AGREEMENTS- To the extent provided in advance by appropriation Acts,
  any United States Government agency may enter into agreements for such
  utilization if such agreements are consistent with such agency's mission
  and statutory authority, and if such remote sensing space system is licensed
  by the Secretary before commencing operation.
  (d) APPLICABILITY- This section does not apply to activities carried out
  under title III.
  (e) EFFECT ON FCC AUTHORITY- Nothing in this title shall affect the authority
  of the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the Communications
  Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.).
TITLE III--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND DEMONSTRATION
SEC. 301. CONTINUED FEDERAL RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
  (a) ROLES OF NASA AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE- (1) The Administrator and the
  Secretary of Defense are directed to continue and to enhance programs of
  remote sensing research and development.
  (2) The Administrator is authorized and encouraged to--
  (A) conduct experimental space remote sensing programs (including
  applications demonstration programs and basic research at universities);
  (B) develop remote sensing technologies and techniques, including those
  needed for monitoring the Earth and its environment; and
  (C) conduct such research and development in cooperation with other United
  States Government agencies and with public and private research entities
  (including private industry, universities, non-profit organizations, State
  and local governments, foreign governments, and international organizations)
  and to enter into arrangements (including joint ventures) which will foster
  such cooperation.
  (b) Roles of Department of Agriculture and Department of Interior-
  (1) In order to enhance the ability of the United States to manage
  and utilize its renewable and nonrenewable resources, the Secretary of
  Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior are authorized and encouraged
  to conduct programs of research and development in the applications of
  remote sensing using funds appropriated for such purposes.
  (2) Such programs may include basic research at universities, demonstrations
  of applications, and cooperative activities involving other Government
  agencies, private sector parties, and foreign and international
  organizations.
  (c) ROLE OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES- Other United States Government agencies
  are authorized and encouraged to conduct research and development on the
  use of remote sensing in the fulfillment of their authorized missions,
  using funds appropriated for such purposes.
SEC. 302. AVAILABILITY OF FEDERALLY GATHERED UNENHANCED DATA.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- All unenhanced land remote sensing data gathered and owned
  by the United States Government, including unenhanced data gathered under
  the technology demonstration program carried out pursuant to section 303,
  shall be made available to users in a timely fashion.
  (b) PROTECTION FOR COMMERCIAL DATA DISTRIBUTOR- The President shall seek
  to ensure that unenhanced data gathered under the technology demonstration
  program carried out pursuant to section 303 shall, to the extent practicable,
  be made available on terms that would not adversely effect the commercial
  market for unenhanced data gathered by the Landsat 6 spacecraft.
SEC. 303. TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- As a fundamental component of a national land remote
  sensing strategy, the President shall establish, through appropriate United
  States Government agencies, a technology demonstration program. The goals
  of such programs shall be to--
  (1) seek to launch advanced land remote sensing system components within
  5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
  (2) demonstrate within such 5-year period advanced sensor capabilities
  suitable for use in the anticipated land remote sensing program; and
  (3) demonstrate within such 5-year period an advanced land remote sensing
  system design that could be less expensive to procure and operate than the
  Landsat system projected to be in operation through the year 2000, and that
  therefore holds greater potential for private sector investment and control.
  (b) EXECUTION OF PROGRAM- In executing the technology demonstration program,
  the President shall seek to apply technologies associated with United
  States National Technical Means of intelligence gathering, to the extent
  that such technologies are appropriate for the technology demonstration
  and can be declassified for such purposes without causing adverse harm to
  United States national security interests.
  (c) BROAD APPLICATION- To the greatest extent practicable, the technology
  demonstration program established under subsection (a) shall be designed
  to be responsive to the broad civilian, national security, commercial,
  and foreign policy needs of the United States.
  (d) PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING- The technology demonstration program under
  this section may be carried out in part with private sector funding.
  (e) LANDSAT PROGRAM MANAGEMENT COORDINATION- The Landsat Program Management
  shall have a coordinating role in the technology demonstration program
  carried out under this section.
  (f) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The President shall assess the progress of the
  technology demonstration program under this section and, within 2 years
  after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report to the Congress
  on such progress.
TITLE IV--ASSESSING OPTIONS FOR SUCCESSOR LAND REMOTE SENSING SYSTEM
SEC. 401. ASSESSING OPTIONS FOR SUCCESSOR LAND REMOTE SENSING SYSTEM.
  (a) ASSESSMENT- Within 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act,
  the Landsat Program Management, in consultation with representatives of
  appropriate United States Government agencies, shall assess and report to
  the Congress on the options for a successor land remote sensing system to
  Landsat 7. The report shall include a full assessment of the advantages
  and disadvantages of--
  (1) private sector funding and management of a successor land remote
  sensing system;
  (2) establishing an international consortium for the funding and management
  of a successor land remote sensing system;
  (3) funding and management of a successor land remote sensing system by
  the United States Government; and
  (4) a cooperative effort between the United States Government and the
  private sector for the funding and management of a successor land remote
  sensing system.
  (b) GOALS- In carrying out subsection (a), the Landsat Program Management
  shall consider the ability of each of the options to--
  (1) encourage the development, launch, and operation of a land remote
  sensing system that adequately serves the civilian, national security,
  commercial, and foreign policy interests of the United States;
  (2) encourage the development, launch, and operation of a land remote
  sensing system that maintains data continuity with the Landsat system; and
  (3) incorporate system enhancements, including any such enhancements
  developed under the technology demonstration program under section 303,
  which may potentially yield a system that is less expensive to build and
  operate, and more responsive to data users, than is the Landsat system
  projected to be in operation through the year 2000.
  (c) PREFERENCE FOR PRIVATE SECTOR SYSTEM- If a successor land remote sensing
  system to Landsat 7 can be funded and managed by the private sector while
  still achieving the goals stated in subsection (b) without jeopardizing
  the domestic, national security, and foreign policy interests of the United
  States, preference should be given to the development of such a system by
  the private sector without competition from the United States Government.
TITLE V--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. NONDISCRIMINATORY DATA AVAILABILITY.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in subsection (b) of this section, any
  unenhanced data generated by the Landsat system or any other land remote
  sensing system funded and owned by the United States Government shall be
  made available to all users without preference, bias, or any other special
  arrangement (except on the basis of national security concerns pursuant to
  section 506) regarding delivery, format, pricing, or technical considerations
  which would favor one customer or class of customers over another.
  (b) EXCEPTIONS- Unenhanced data generated by the Landsat system or any other
  land remote sensing system funded and owned by the United States Government
  may be made available to the United States Government and its affiliated
  users at reduced prices, in accordance with this Act, on the condition
  that such unenhanced data are used solely for noncommercial purposes.
SEC. 502. ARCHIVING OF DATA.
  (a) PUBLIC INTEREST- It is in the public interest for the United States
  Government to--
  (1) maintain an archive of land remote sensing data for historical,
  scientific, and technical purposes, including long-term global environmental
  monitoring;
  (2) control the content and scope of the archive; and
  (3) assure the quality, integrity, and continuity of the archive.
  (b) ARCHIVING PRACTICES- The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation
  with the Landsat Program Management, shall provide for long-term storage,
  maintenance, and upgrading of a basic, global, land remote sensing data
  set (hereinafter referred to as the `basic data set') and shall follow
  reasonable archival practices to assure proper storage and preservation
  of the basic data set and timely access for parties requesting data.
  (c) DETERMINATION OF CONTENT OF BASIC DATA SET- In determining the initial
  content of, or in upgrading, the basic data set, the Secretary of Interior
  shall--
  (1) use as a baseline the data archived on the date of enactment of this Act;
  (2) take into account future technical and scientific developments and
  needs, paying particular attention to the anticipated data requirements
  of global environmental change research;
  (3) consult with and seek the advice of users and producers of remote
  sensing data and data products;
  (4) consider the need for data which may be duplicative in terms of
  geographical coverage but which differ in terms of season, spectral bands,
  resolution, or other relevant factors;
  (5) include, as the Secretary of the Interior considers appropriate,
  unenhanced data generated either by the Landsat system, pursuant to title I,
  or by licensees under title II;
  (6) include, as the Secretary of the Interior considers appropriate, data
  collected by foreign ground stations or by foreign remote sensing space
  systems; and
  (7) ensure that the content of the archive is developed in accordance with
  section 506.
  (d) PUBLIC DOMAIN- After the expiration of any exclusive right to sell,
  or after relinquishment of such right, the data provided to the National
  Satellite Land Remote Sensing Data Archive shall be in the public domain
  and shall be made available to requesting parties by the Secretary of the
  Interior at the cost of fulfilling user requests.
SEC. 503. NONREPRODUCTION.
  Unenhanced data distributed by any licensee under title II of this Act
  may be sold on the condition that such data will not be reproduced or
  disseminated by the purchaser for commercial purposes.
SEC. 504. REIMBURSEMENT FOR ASSISTANCE.
  The  Administrator, the Secretary of Defense, and the heads of other United
  States Government agencies may provide assistance to land remote sensing
  system operators under the provisions of this Act. Substantial assistance
  shall be reimbursed by the operator, except as otherwise  provided by law.
SEC. 505. ACQUISITION OF EQUIPMENT.
  The Landsat Program Management may, by means of a competitive process,
  allow a licensee under title II or any other private party to buy, lease,
  or otherwise acquire the use of equipment from the Landsat system, when
  such equipment is no longer needed for the operation of such system or
  for the sale of data from such system. Officials of other United States
  Government civilian agencies are authorized and encouraged to cooperate
  with the Secretary in carrying out this section.
SEC. 506. RADIO FREQUENCY ALLOCATION.
  (a) APPLICATION TO FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION- To the extent required
  by the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), an application
  shall be filed with the Federal Communications Commission for any radio
  facilities involved with commercial remote sensing space systems licensed
  under title II.
  (b) DEADLINE FOR FCC ACTION- It is the intent of Congress that the Federal
  Communications Commission complete the radio licensing process under the
  Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), upon the application
  of any private sector party or consortium operator of any commercial
  land remote sensing space system subject to this Act, within 120 days
  of the receipt of an application for such licensing. If final action
  has not occurred within 120 days of the receipt of such an application,
  the Federal Communications Commission  shall inform the applicant of any
  pending issues and of actions required to resolve them.
  (c) DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF UNITED STATES SYSTEMS- Authority
  shall not be required from the Federal Communications Commission  for the
  development and construction of any United States land remote sensing space
  system (or component thereof), other than radio transmitting facilities
  or components, while any licensing determination is being made.
  (d) CONSISTENCY WITH INTERNATIONAL OBLIGATIONS AND PUBLIC INTEREST- Frequency
  allocations made pursuant to this section by the Federal Communications
  Commission  shall be consistent with international obligations and with
  the public interest.
SEC. 507. CONSULTATION.
  (a) CONSULTATION WITH SECRETARY OF DEFENSE- The Secretary and the Landsat
  Program Management shall consult with the Secretary of Defense on all matters
  under this Act affecting national security. The Secretary of Defense shall
  be responsible for determining those conditions, consistent with this Act,
  necessary to meet national security concerns of the United States and for
  notifying the Secretary and the Landsat Program Management promptly of
  such conditions.
  (b) CONSULTATION WITH SECRETARY OF STATE- (1) The Secretary and the
  Landsat Program Management shall consult with the Secretary of State
  on all matters under this Act affecting international obligations. The
  Secretary of State shall be responsible for determining those conditions,
  consistent with this Act, necessary to meet international obligations and
  policies of the United States and for notifying promptly the Secretary
  and the Landsat Program Management of such conditions.
  (2) Appropriate United States Government agencies are authorized and
  encouraged to provide remote sensing data, technology, and training to
  developing nations as a component of programs of international aid.
  (3) The Secretary of State shall promptly report to the Secretary and
  Landsat Program Management any instances outside the United States of
  discriminatory distribution of Landsat data.
  (c) STATUS REPORT- The Landsat Program Management shall, as often as
  necessary, provide to the Congress complete and updated information about
  the status of ongoing operations of the Landsat system, including timely
  notification of decisions made with respect to the Landsat system in
  order to meet national security concerns and international obligations
  and policies of the United States Government.
  (d) REIMBURSEMENTS- If, as a result of technical modifications imposed
  on a licensee under title II on the basis of national security concerns,
  the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense or with other
  Federal agencies, determines that additional costs will be incurred by the
  licensee, or that past development costs (including the cost of capital)
  will not be recovered by the licensee, the Secretary may require the
  agency or agencies requesting such technical modifications to reimburse the
  licensee for such additional or development costs, but not for anticipated
  profits. Reimbursements may cover costs associated with required changes
  in system performance, but not costs ordinarily associated with doing
  business abroad.
SEC. 508. ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- In order to ensure that unenhanced data from the Landsat
  system received solely for noncommercial purposes are not used for any
  commercial purpose, the Secretary (in collaboration with private sector
  entities responsible for the marketing and distribution of unenhanced data
  generated by the Landsat system) shall develop and implement a system
  for enforcing this prohibition, in the event that unenhanced data from
  the Landsat system are made available for noncommercial purposes at a
  different price than such data are made available for other purposes.
  (b) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY- Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary
  may impose any of the enforcement mechanisms described in subsection (c)
  against a person who--
  (1) receives unenhanced data from the Landsat system under this Act solely
  for noncommercial purposes (and at a different price than the price at
  which such data are made available for other purposes); and
  (2) uses such data for other than noncommercial purposes.
  (c) ENFORCEMENT MECHANISMS- Enforcement mechanisms referred to in subsection
  (b) may include civil penalties of not more than $10,000 (per day per
  violation), denial of further unenhanced data purchasing privileges, and
  any other penalties or restrictions the Secretary considers necessary to
  ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that unenhanced data provided for
  noncommercial purposes are not used to unfairly compete in the commercial
  market against private sector entities not eligible for data at the cost
  of fulfilling user requests.
  (d) PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue any regulations
  necessary to carry out this section and shall establish standards and
  procedures governing the imposition of enforcement mechanisms under
  subsection (b). The standards and procedures shall include a  procedure for
  potentially aggrieved parties to file formal protests with the Secretary
  alleging instances where such unenhanced data has been, or is being,
  used for commercial purposes in violation of the terms of receipt of such
  data. The Secretary shall promptly act to investigate any such protest,
  and shall report annually to the Congress on instances of such violations.
TITLE VI--PROHIBITION OF COMMERCIALIZATION OF WEATHER SATELLITES
SEC. 601. PROHIBITION.
  Neither the President nor any other official of the Government shall
  make any effort to lease, sell, or transfer to the private sector, or
  commercialize, any portion of the weather satellite systems operated by
  the Department of Commerce or any successor agency.
SEC. 602. FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS.
  Regardless of any change in circumstances subsequent to the enactment
  of this Act, even if such change makes it appear to be in the national
  interest to commercialize weather satellites, neither the President nor
  any official shall take any action prohibited by section 601 unless this
  title has first been repealed.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.