 
--H.R.2525--
H.R.2525
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, to codify the provisions of law relating
to the establishment of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to restate and
reorganize certain provisions of that title, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Department of Veterans
 Affairs Codification Act'.
 (b) REFERENCES- Except in sections 3 and 6 and as otherwise expressly
 provided, whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms
 of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference
 shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of title 38,
 United States Code.
SEC. 2. CODIFICATION, REORGANIZATION, AND REVISION OF LAWS RELATING TO
ESTABLISHMENT, ORGANIZATION, AND AUTHORITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part I is amended by striking out chapter 3 and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
`CHAPTER 3--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
`Sec.
`301. Department.
`302. Seal.
`303. Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
`304. Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
`305. Chief Medical Director.
`306. Chief Benefits Director.
`307. Director of the National Cemetery System.
`308. Assistant Secretaries; Deputy Assistant Secretaries.
`309. Chief Financial Officer.
`310. Chief Information Resources Officer.
`311. General Counsel.
`312. Inspector General.
`313. Availability of appropriations.
`314. Central Office.
`315. Regional offices.
`316. Colocation of regional offices and medical centers.
`Sec. 301. Department
 `(a) The Department of Veterans Affairs is an executive department of the
 United States.
 `(b) The purpose of the Department is to administer the laws providing
 benefits and other services to veterans and the dependents and the
 beneficiaries of veterans.
 `(c) The Department is composed of the following:
 `(1) The Office of the Secretary.
 `(2) The Veterans Health Administration.
 `(3) The Veterans Benefits Administration.
 `(4) The National Cemetery System.
 `(5) The Board of Veterans' Appeals.
 `(6) The Veterans' Canteen Service.
 `(7) The Board of Contract Appeals.
 `(8) Such other offices and agencies as are established or designated by
 law or by the President or the Secretary.
 `(9) Any office, agency, or activity under the control or supervision of
 any element named in paragraphs (1) through (8).
`Sec. 302. Seal
 `(a) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall cause a seal of office to be made
 for the Department of such device as the President shall approve. Judicial
 notice shall be taken of the seal.
 `(b) Copies of any public document, record, or paper belonging to or in the
 files of the Department, when authenticated by the seal and certified by the
 Secretary (or by an officer or employee of the Department to whom authority
 has been delegated in writing by the Secretary), shall be evidence equal
 with the original thereof.
`Sec. 303. Secretary of Veterans Affairs
 `There is a Secretary of Veterans Affairs, who is the head of the Department
 and is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
 of the Senate. The Secretary is responsible for the proper execution and
 administration of all laws administered by the Department and for the control,
 direction, and management of the Department.
`Sec. 304. Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs
 `There is in the Department a Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, who
 is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
 Senate. The Deputy Secretary shall perform such functions as the Secretary
 shall prescribe. Unless the President designates another officer of the
 Government, the Deputy Secretary shall be Acting Secretary of Veterans
 Affairs during the absence or disability of the Secretary or in the event
 of a vacancy in the office of Secretary.
`Sec. 305. Chief Medical Director
 `(a)(1) There is in the Department a Chief Medical Director, who is appointed
 by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
 `(2) The Chief Medical Director shall be a doctor of medicine and shall be
 appointed without regard to political affiliation or activity and solely--
 `(A) on the basis of demonstrated ability in the medical profession,
 in health-care administration and policy formulation, and in health-care
 fiscal management; and
 `(B) on the basis of substantial experience in connection with the programs of
 the Veterans Health Administration or programs of similar content and scope.
 `(b) The Chief Medical Director is the head of, and is directly responsible
 to the Secretary for the operation of, the Veterans Health Administration.
 `(c) The Chief Medical Director shall be appointed for a period of four
 years, with reappointment permissible for successive like periods. If the
 President removes the Chief Medical Director before the completion of the
 term for which the Chief Medical Director was appointed, the President
 shall communicate the reasons for the removal to Congress.
 `(d)(1) Whenever a vacancy in the position of Chief Medical Director occurs
 or is anticipated, the Secretary shall establish a commission to recommend
 individuals to the President for appointment to the position.
 `(2) A commission established under this subsection shall be composed of
 the following members appointed by the Secretary:
 `(A) Three persons representing clinical care and medical research and
 education activities affected by the Veterans Health Administration.
 `(B) Two persons representing veterans served by the Veterans Health
 Administration.
 `(C) Two persons who have experience in the management of veterans health
 services and research programs, or programs of similar content and scope.
 `(D) The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
 `(E) The Chairman of the Special Medical Advisory Group established under
 section 7312 of this title.
 `(F) One person who has held the position of Chief Medical Director (including
 service as Chief Medical Director of the Veterans' Administration), if the
 Secretary determines that it is desirable for such person to be a member
 of the Commission.
 `(3) A commission established under this subsection shall recommend
 at least three individuals for appointment to the position of Chief
 Medical Director. The commission shall submit all recommendations to the
 Secretary. The Secretary shall forward the recommendations to the President
 with any comments the Secretary considers appropriate. Thereafter, the
 President may request the commission to recommend additional individuals
 for appointment.
 `(4) The Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs
 who performs personnel management and labor relations functions shall serve
 as the executive secretary of a commission established under this subsection.
`Sec. 306. Chief Benefits Director
 `(a) There is in the Department a Chief Benefits Director, who is appointed
 by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The
 Chief Benefits Director shall be appointed without regard to political
 affiliation or activity and solely on the basis of demonstrated ability in--
 `(1) fiscal management; and
 `(2) the administration of programs within the Veterans Benefits
 Administration or programs of similar content and scope.
 `(b) The Chief Benefits Director is the head of, and is directly responsible
 to the Secretary for the operations of, the Veterans Benefits Administration.
 `(c) The Chief Benefits Director shall be appointed for a period of four
 years, with reappointment permissible for successive like periods. If the
 President removes the Chief Benefits Director before the completion of the
 term for which the Chief Benefits Director was appointed, the President
 shall communicate the reasons for the removal to Congress.
 `(d)(1) Whenever a vacancy in the position of Chief Benefits Director occurs
 or is anticipated, the Secretary shall establish a commission to recommend
 individuals to the President for appointment to the position.
 `(2) A commission established under this subsection shall be composed of
 the following members appointed by the Secretary:
 `(A) Three persons representing education and training, real estate, mortgage
 finance, and related industries, and survivor benefits activities affected
 by the Veterans Benefits Administration.
 `(B) Two persons representing veterans served by the Veterans Benefits
 Administration.
 `(C) Two persons who have experience in the management of veterans benefits
 programs or programs of similar content and scope.
 `(D) The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
 `(E) The chairman of the Veterans' Advisory Committee on Education formed
 under section 3692 of this title.
 `(F) One person who has held the position of Chief Benefits Director
 (including service as Chief Benefits Director of the Veterans'
 Administration), if the Secretary determines that it is desirable for such
 person to be a member of the Commission.
 `(3) A commission established under this subsection shall recommend
 at least three individuals for appointment to the position of Chief
 Benefits Director. The commission shall submit all recommendations to the
 Secretary. The Secretary shall forward the recommendations to the President
 with any comments the Secretary considers appropriate. Thereafter, the
 President may request the commission to recommend additional individuals
 for appointment.
 `(4) The Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs
 who performs personnel management and labor relations functions shall serve
 as the executive secretary of a commission established under this subsection.
`Sec. 307. Director of the National Cemetery System
 `There is in the Department a Director of the National Cemetery System,
 who is appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of
 the Senate. The Director is the head of the National Cemetery System as
 established in section 2400 of this title and shall perform such functions
 as may be assigned by the Secretary.
`Sec. 308. Assistant Secretaries; Deputy Assistant Secretaries
 `(a) There shall be in the Department not more than six Assistant
 Secretaries. Each Assistant Secretary shall be appointed by the President,
 by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
 `(b) The Secretary shall assign to the Assistant Secretaries responsibility
 for the administration of such functions and duties as the Secretary
 considers appropriate, including the following functions:
 `(1) Budgetary and financial functions.
 `(2) Personnel management and labor relations functions.
 `(3) Planning, studies, and evaluations.
 `(4) Management, productivity, and logistic support functions.
 `(5) Information management functions as required by section 3506 of title 44.
 `(6) Capital facilities and real property program functions.
 `(7) Equal opportunity functions.
 `(8) Functions regarding the investigation of complaints of employment
 discrimination within the Department.
 `(9) Functions regarding intergovernmental, public, and consumer information
 and affairs.
 `(10) Procurement functions.
 `(c) Whenever the President nominates an individual for appointment as an
 Assistant Secretary, the President shall include in the communication to
 the Senate of the nomination a statement of the particular functions of
 the Department specified in subsection (b), and any other functions of the
 Department, the individual will exercise upon taking office.
 `(d)(1) There shall be in the Department such number of Deputy Assistant
 Secretaries, not exceeding 18, as the Secretary may determine. Each Deputy
 Assistant Secretary shall be appointed by the Secretary and shall perform
 such functions as the Secretary prescribes.
 `(2) At least two-thirds of the number of positions established and
 filled under paragraph (1) shall be filled by individuals who have at
 least five years of continuous service in the Federal civil service in
 the executive branch immediately preceding their appointment as a Deputy
 Assistant Secretary. For purposes of determining such continuous service
 of an individual, there shall be excluded any service by such individual
 in a position--
 `(A) of a confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or
 policy-advocating character;
 `(B) in which such individual served as a noncareer appointee in the Senior
 Executive Service, as such term is defined in section 3132(a)(7) of title
 5; or
 `(C) to which such individual was appointed by the President.
`Sec. 309. Chief Financial Officer
 `The Secretary shall designate the Assistant Secretary whose functions
 include budgetary and financial functions as the Chief Financial Officer
 of the Department. The Chief Financial Officer shall advise the Secretary
 on financial management of the Department and shall exercise the authority
 and carry out the functions specified in section 902 of title 31.
`Sec. 310. Chief Information Resources Officer
 `(a) The Secretary shall designate the Assistant Secretary whose functions
 include information management functions (as required by section 3506 of
 title 44) as the Chief Information Resources Officer of the Department.
 `(b) The Chief Information Resources Officer shall advise the Secretary
 on information and management activities of the Department as required by
 section 3506 of title 44.
 `(c) The Chief Information Resources Officer shall develop and maintain an
 information resources management system for the Department that provides for--
 `(1) the conduct of, and accountability for, any acquisitions made pursuant
 to a delegation of authority under section 111 of the Federal Property and
 Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 759);
 `(2) the implementation of all applicable Governmentwide and Department
 information policies, principles, standards, and guidelines with respect
 to information collection, paperwork reduction, privacy and security of
 records, sharing and dissemination of information, acquisition and use of
 information technology, and other information resources management functions;
 `(3) the periodic evaluation of and (as needed) the planning and
 implementation of improvements in the accuracy, completeness, and reliability
 of data and records contained within Department information systems; and
 `(4) the development and annual revision of a five-year plan for meeting
 the Department's information technology needs.
 `(d) The Chief Information Resources Officer shall report directly to the
 Secretary in carrying out the duties of the Chief Information Resources
 Officer under this section and under chapter 35 of title 44.
`Sec. 311. General Counsel
 `There is in the Department the Office of the General Counsel. There is at
 the head of the office a General Counsel, who is appointed by the President,
 by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The General Counsel is
 the chief legal officer of the Department and provides legal assistance to
 the Secretary concerning the programs and policies of the Department.
`Sec. 312. Inspector General
 `(a) There is in the Department an Inspector General, who is appointed by the
 President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as provided in
 the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 3). The Inspector General
 performs the functions, has the responsibilities, and exercises the powers
 specified in that Act.
 `(b)(1) The Secretary shall provide for not less than 40 full-time positions
 in the Office of Inspector General in addition to the number of such
 positions in that office on March 15, 1989.
 `(2) The President shall include in the budget transmitted to the Congress
 for each fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31 an estimate of the
 amount for the Office of Inspector General that is sufficient to provide
 for a number of full-time positions in that office that is not less than
 the number of full-time positions in that office on March 15, 1989, plus 40.
 `(3) The Secretary shall provide the number of additional full-time positions
 in the Office of Inspector General required by paragraph (1) not later than
 September 30, 1991.
`Sec. 313. Availability of appropriations
 `(a) Funds appropriated to the Department may remain available until expended.
 `(b) Funds appropriated to the Department may not be used for a settlement
 of more than $1,000,000 on a construction contract unless--
 `(1) the settlement is audited by an entity outside the Department for
 reasonableness and appropriateness of expenditures; and
 `(2) the settlement is provided for specifically in an appropriation law.
`Sec. 314. Central Office
 `The Central Office of the Department shall be in the District of Columbia.
`Sec. 315. Regional offices
 `(a) The Secretary may establish such regional offices and such other
 field offices within the United States, its Territories, Commonwealths,
 and possessions, as the Secretary considers necessary.
 `(b) The Secretary may maintain a regional office in the Republic of the
 Philippines until September 30, 1991.
`Sec. 316. Colocation of regional offices and medical centers
 `(a) To provide for a more economical, efficient, and effective operation
 of such regional offices, the Secretary shall provide for the colocation
 of at least three regional offices with medical centers of the Department--
 `(1) on real property under the jurisdiction of the Department of Veterans
 Affairs at such medical centers; or
 `(2) on real property that is adjacent to such a medical center and is
 under the jurisdiction of the Department as a result of being conveyed to
 the United States for the purpose of such colocation.
 `(b)(1) In carrying out this section and notwithstanding any other provision
 of law, the Secretary may lease, with or without compensation and for a period
 of not to exceed 35 years, to another party at not more than seven locations
 any of the real property described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a).
 `(2) Such real property shall be used as the site of a facility--
 `(A) constructed and owned by the lessee of such real property; and
 `(B) leased under subsection (c)(1) to the Department for such use and such
 other activities as the Secretary determines are appropriate.
 `(c)(1) The Secretary may enter into a lease for the use of any facility
 described in subsection (b)(2) for not more than 35 years under such terms
 and conditions as may be in the best interests of the Department.
 `(2) Each agreement for such a lease shall provide--
 `(A) that the obligation of the United States to make payments under
 the agreement is subject to the availability of appropriations for that
 purpose; and
 `(B) that the ownership of the facility shall vest in the United States at
 the end of such lease.
 `(d)(1) The Secretary may sublease any space in such a facility to another
 party at a rate not less than--
 `(A) the rental rate paid by the Secretary for such space under subsection
 (c); plus
 `(B) the amount the Secretary pays for the costs of administering such
 facility (including operation, maintenance, utility, and rehabilitation
 costs) which are attributable to such space.
 `(2) In any such sublease, the Secretary shall include such terms relating
 to default and nonperformance as the Secretary considers appropriate to
 protect the interests of the United States.
 `(e) The Secretary shall use the receipts of any payment for the lease
 of real property under subsection (b) for the payment of the lease of a
 facility under subsection (c).
 `(f)(1) Subject to paragraph (3)(A), the Secretary shall, not later than April
 18, 1990, issue an invitation for offers with respect to three colocations
 to be carried out under this section. The invitation shall include, with
 respect to each such  colocation, at least the following:
 `(A) Identification of the site to be developed.
 `(B) Minimum office space requirements for regional office activities.
 `(C) Design criteria of the facility to be constructed.
 `(D) A plan for meeting the security and parking needs for the facility
 and its occupants and visitors.
 `(E) A statement of current and projected rents and other costs for regional
 office activities.
 `(F) The estimated cost of construction of the facility concerned, the
 estimated annual cost of leasing space for regional office activities in
 the facility, and the estimated total annual cost of leasing all space in
 such facility.
 `(G) A plan for securing appropriate licenses, easements, and rights-of-way.
 `(H) A list of terms and conditions the Secretary has approved for inclusion
 in the lease agreement for the facility concerned.
 `(2) Subject to paragraph (3)(B), the Secretary shall--
 `(A) not later than one year after the date on which the invitation is issued
 under paragraph (1), enter into an agreement to carry out one  colocation
 under this subsection; and
 `(B) within 180 days after entering into the agreement referred to in
 subparagraph (A), enter into agreements to carry out two additional
 colocations,
unless the Secretary determines that it is not economically feasible for the
Department to undertake them, taking into consideration all of the tangible
and intangible benefits associated with such  colocations.
 `(3) The Secretary shall--
 `(A) at least 10 days before the issuance or other publication of the
 invitation referred to in paragraph (1), submit a copy of the invitation
 to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of
 Representatives; and
 `(B) at least 30 days before entering into an agreement under paragraph
 (2), submit a copy to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate
 and House of Representatives of the proposals selected by the Secretary
 from those received in response to the invitation issued under paragraph (1).
 `(g) The authority to enter into an agreement under this section shall
 expire on September 30, 1992.
`CHAPTER 5--AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY
`SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL AUTHORITIES
`Sec.
`501. Rules and regulations.
`502. Judicial review of rules and regulations.
`503. Administrative error; equitable relief.
`505. Opinions of Attorney General.
`510. Authority to reorganize offices.
`511. Decisions of the Secretary; finality.
`512. Delegation of authority; assignment of functions and duties.
`513. Contracts and personal services.
`515. Administrative settlement of tort claims.
`SUBCHAPTER II--SPECIFIED FUNCTIONS
`521. Assistance to certain rehabilitation activities.
`522. Studies of rehabilitation of disabled persons.
`523. Coordination and promotion of other programs affecting veterans and
their dependents.
`525. Publication of laws relating to veterans.
`527. Evaluation and data collection.
`529. Annual report to Congress.
`SUBCHAPTER III--ADVISORY COMMITTEES
`541. Advisory Committee on Former Prisoners of War.
`542. Advisory Committee on Women Veterans.
`SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL AUTHORITIES
`Sec. 501. Rules and regulations
 `(a) The Secretary has authority to prescribe all rules and regulations
 which are necessary or appropriate to carry out the laws administered by
 the Department and are consistent with those laws, including--
 `(1) regulations with respect to the nature and extent of proof and evidence
 and the method of taking and furnishing them in order to establish the
 right to benefits under such laws;
 `(2) the forms of application by claimants under such laws;
 `(3) the methods of making investigations and medical examinations; and
 `(4) the manner and form of adjudications and awards.
 `(b) Any rule, regulation, guideline, or other published interpretation or
 order (and any amendment thereto) issued pursuant to the authority granted by
 this section or any other provision of this title shall contain citations
 to the particular section or sections of statutory law or other legal
 authority upon which such issuance is based. The citation to the authority
 shall appear immediately following each substantive provision of the issuance.
 `(c) In applying section 552(a)(1) of title 5 to the Department, the
 Secretary shall ensure that subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) of that section
 are complied with, particularly with respect to opinions and interpretations
 of the General Counsel.
 `(d) The provisions of section 553 of title 5 shall apply, without regard
 to subsection (a)(2) of that section, to matters relating to loans, grants,
 or benefits under a law administered by the Secretary.
`Sec. 502. Judicial review of rules and regulations
 `An action of the Secretary to which section 552(a)(1) or 553 of title 5 (or
 both) refers (other than an action relating to the adoption or revision of
 the schedule of ratings for disabilities adopted under section 1155 of this
 title) is subject to judicial review. Such review shall be in accordance
 with chapter 7 of title 5 and may be sought only in the United States Court
 of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. However, if such review is sought in
 connection with an appeal brought under the provisions of chapter 72 of
 this title, the provisions of that chapter shall apply rather than the
 provisions of chapter 7 of title 5.
`Sec. 503. Administrative error; equitable relief
 `(a) If the Secretary determines that benefits administered by the Department
 have not been provided by reason of administrative error on the part of
 the Federal Government or any of its employees, the Secretary may provide
 such relief on account of such error as the Secretary determines equitable,
 including the payment of moneys to any person whom the Secretary determines
 is equitably entitled to such moneys.
 `(b) If the Secretary determines that a veteran, surviving spouse, child of
 a veteran, or other person has suffered loss as a consequence of reliance
 upon a determination by the Department of eligibility or entitlement to
 benefits, without knowledge that it was erroneously made, the Secretary may
 provide such relief on account of such error as the Secretary determines is
 equitable, including the payment of moneys to any person whom the Secretary
 determines is equitably entitled to such moneys.
 `(c) Not later than April 1 of each year, the Secretary shall submit to
 Congress a report containing a statement as to the disposition of each case
 recommended to the Secretary for equitable relief under this section during
 the preceding calendar year.
`Sec. 505. Opinions of Attorney General
 `The Secretary may require the opinion of the Attorney General on any
 question of law arising in the administration of the Department.
`Sec. 510. Authority to reorganize offices
 `(a) Except to the extent inconsistent with law, the Secretary may--
 `(1) consolidate, eliminate, abolish, or redistribute the functions of the
 Administrations, offices, facilities, or activities in the Department;
 `(2) create new Administrations, offices, facilities, or activities in the
 Department; and
 `(3) fix the functions of any such Administration, office, facility, or
 activity and the duties and powers of their respective executive heads.
 `(b) The Secretary may not in any fiscal year implement an administrative
 reorganization described in subsection (c) unless the Secretary first submits
 to the appropriate committees of the Congress a report containing a detailed
 plan and justification for the administrative reorganization. No action
 to carry out such reorganization may be taken after the submission of such
 report until the end of a 90-day period of continuous session of Congress
 following the date of the submission of the report. For purposes of the
 preceding sentence, continuity of a session of Congress is broken only by
 adjournment sine die, and there shall be excluded from the computation of
 such 90-day period any day during which either House of Congress is not in
 session during an adjournment of more than three days to a day certain.
 `(c) An administrative reorganization described in this subsection is an
 administrative reorganization of a covered field office or facility that
 involves a reduction during any fiscal year in the number of full-time
 equivalent employees with permanent duty stations at such office or facility--
 `(1) by 15 percent or more; or
 `(2) by a percent which, when added to the percent reduction made in the
 number of such employees with permanent duty stations at such office or
 facility during the preceding fiscal year, is 25 percent or more.
 `(d)(1) Not less than 30 days before the date on which the implementation of
 any administrative reorganization described in paragraph (2) of a unit in the
 Central Office is to begin, the Secretary shall transmit to the Committees
 on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives a
 notification regarding the reorganization.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) applies to an administrative reorganization of any unit
 of the Central Office that is the duty station for 30 or more employees if
 the reorganization involves a reduction in any fiscal year in the number
 of full-time equivalent employees with permanent duty station in such unit
 by 50 percent or more.
 `(e) For purposes of this section, the term `administrative reorganization'
 does not include a consolidation or redistribution of functions at a covered
 field office or facility, or between components of the Veterans Benefits
 Administration and the Veterans Health Administration at a Department medical
 and regional office center, if after the consolidation or redistribution
 the same number of full-time equivalent employees continues to perform the
 affected functions at that field office, facility, or center.
 `(f) For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `covered field office or facility' means a Department office
 or facility outside the Central Office that is the permanent duty station
 for 25 or more employees or that is a free-standing outpatient clinic.
 `(2) The term `detailed plan and justification' means, with respect to
 an administrative reorganization, a written report that, at a minimum,
 includes the following:
 `(A) Specification of the number of employees by which each covered office or
 facility affected is to be reduced, the responsibilities of those employees,
 and the means by which the reduction is to be accomplished.
 `(B) Identification of any existing or planned office or facility at which
 the number of employees is to be increased and specification of the number and
 responsibilities of the additional employees at each such office or facility.
 `(C) A description of the changes in the functions carried out at any
 existing office or facility and the functions to be assigned to an office
 or facility not in existence on the date that the plan and justification
 are submitted pursuant to subsection (b).
 `(D) An explanation of the reasons for the determination that the
 reorganization is appropriate and advisable in terms of the statutory
 missions and long-term goals of the Department.
 `(E) A description of the effects that the reorganization may have on the
 provision of benefits and services to veterans and dependents of veterans
 (including the provision of benefits and services through offices and
 facilities of the Department not directly affected by the reorganization).
 `(F) Estimates of the costs of the reorganization and of the cost impact
 of the reorganization, together with analyses supporting those estimates.
`Sec. 511. Decisions of the Secretary; finality
 `(a) The Secretary shall decide all questions of law and fact necessary
 to a decision by the Secretary under a law that affects the provision of
 benefits by the Secretary to veterans or the dependents or survivors of
 veterans. Subject to subsection (b), the decision of the Secretary as to
 any such question shall be final and conclusive and may not be reviewed by
 any other official or by any court, whether by an action in the nature of
 mandamus or otherwise.
 `(b) The second sentence of subsection (a) does not apply to--
 `(1) matters subject to section 502 of this title;
 `(2) matters covered by sections 1975 and 1984 of this title;
 `(3) matters arising under chapter 37 of this title; and
 `(4) matters covered by chapter 72 of this title.
`Sec. 512. Delegation of authority; assignment of functions and duties
 `(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Secretary may assign functions
 and duties, and delegate, or authorize successive redelegation of, authority
 to act and to render decisions, with respect to all laws administered by
 the Department, to such officers and employees as the Secretary may find
 necessary. Within the limitations of such delegations, redelegations, or
 assignments, all official acts and decisions of such officers and employees
 shall have the same force and effect as though performed or rendered by
 the Secretary.
 `(b) There shall be included on the technical and administrative staff
 of the Secretary such staff officers, experts, inspectors, and assistants
 (including legal assistants) as the Secretary may prescribe.
`Sec. 513. Contracts and personal services
 `The Secretary may, for purposes of all laws administered by the Department,
 accept uncompensated services, and enter into contracts or agreements with
 private or public agencies or persons (including contracts for services of
 translators without regard to any other law), for such necessary services
 (including personal services) as the Secretary may consider practicable. The
 Secretary may also enter into contracts or agreements with private concerns
 or public agencies for the hiring of passenger motor vehicles or aircraft
 for official travel whenever, in the Secretary's judgment, such arrangements
 are in the interest of efficiency or economy.
`Sec. 515. Administrative settlement of tort claims
 `(a)(1) Notwithstanding the limitations contained in section 2672 of title
 28, the Secretary may settle a claim for money damages against the United
 States cognizable under section 1346(b) or 2672 of title 28 or section
 7316 of this title to the extent the authority to do so is delegated to
 the Secretary by the Attorney General. Such delegation may not exceed the
 authority delegated by the Attorney General to United States attorneys to
 settle claims for money damages against the United States.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `settle', with respect to
 a claim, means consider, ascertain, adjust, determine, and dispose of the
 claim, whether by full or partial allowance or by disallowance.
 `(b) The Secretary may pay tort claims, in the manner authorized in the
 first paragraph of section 2672 of title 28, when such claims arise in
 foreign countries in connection with Department operations abroad. A claim
 may not be allowed under this subsection unless it is presented in writing
 to the Secretary within two years after the claim accrues.
`SUBCHAPTER II--SPECIFIED FUNCTIONS
`Sec. 521. Assistance to certain rehabilitation activities
 `(a) The Secretary may assist any organization named in or approved under
 section 5902 of this title in providing recreational activities which would
 further the rehabilitation of disabled veterans. Such assistance may be
 provided only if--
 `(1) the activities are available to disabled veterans on a national
 basis; and
 `(2) a significant percentage of the individuals participating in the
 activities are eligible for rehabilitative services under chapter 17 of
 this title.
 `(b) The Secretary may accept from any appropriate source contributions
 of funds and of other assistance to support the Secretary's provision of
 assistance for such activities.
 `(c)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may authorize the use,
 for purposes approved by the Secretary in connection with the activity
 involved, of the seal and other official symbols of the Department and the
 name `Department of Veterans Affairs' by--
 `(A) any organization which provides an activity described in subsection
 (a) with assistance from the Secretary; and
 `(B) any individual or entity from which the Secretary accepts a significant
 contribution under subsection (b) or an offer of such a contribution.
 `(2) The use of such seal or name of any official symbol of the Department
 in an advertisement may be authorized by the Secretary under this subsection
 only if--
 `(A) the Secretary has approved the advertisement; and
 `(B) the advertisement contains a clear statement that no product, project,
 or commercial line of en- deavor referred to in the advertisement is endorsed
 by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
`Sec. 522. Studies of rehabilitation of disabled persons
 `(a) The Secretary may conduct studies and investigations, and prepare
 reports, relative to the rehabilitation of disabled persons, the relative
 abilities, aptitudes, and capacities of the several groups of the variously
 handicapped, and how their potentialities can best be developed and
 their services best used in gainful and suitable employment including the
 rehabilitation programs of foreign nations.
 `(b) In carrying out this section, the Secretary (1) may cooperate with
 such public and private agencies as the Secretary considers advisable;
 and (2) may employ consultants who shall receive a reasonable per diem, as
 prescribed by the Secretary, for each day actually employed, plus necessary
 travel and other expenses.
-`Sec. 523. Coordination and promotion of other programs affecting veterans
and their dependents
 `(a) The Secretary shall seek to achieve (1) the maximum feasible
 effectiveness, coordination, and interrelationship of services among all
 programs and activities affecting veterans and their dependents carried out
 by and under all other departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the
 executive branch, and (2) the maximum feasible coordination of such programs
 with programs carried out under this title. The Secretary shall actively
 promote the effective implementation, enforcement, and application of all
 provisions of law and regulations providing for special consideration,
 emphasis, or preference for veterans.
 `(b) The Secretary shall seek to achieve the effective coordination of
 the provision, under laws administered by the Department, of benefits
 and services (and information about such benefits and services) with
 appropriate programs (and information about such programs) conducted by
 State and local governmental agencies and by private entities at the State
 and local level. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall place
 special emphasis on veterans who are 65 years of age or older.
`Sec. 525. Publication of laws relating to veterans
 `(a) The Secretary may compile and publish all Federal laws relating to
 veterans' relief, including laws administered by the Department as well as by
 other agencies of the Government. Such compilation and publication shall be
 in such form as the Secretary considers advisable for the purpose of making
 currently available in convenient form for the use of the Department and
 full-time representatives of the several service organizations an annotated,
 indexed, and cross-referenced statement of the laws providing veterans'
 relief.
 `(b) The Secretary may maintain such compilation on a current basis either
 by the publication, from time to time, of supplementary documents or by
 complete revision of the compilation.
 `(c) The distribution of the compilation to the representatives of the
 several service organizations shall be as determined by the Secretary.
`Sec. 527. Evaluation and data collection
 `(a) The Secretary, pursuant to general standards which the Secretary shall
 prescribe in regulations, shall measure and evaluate on a continuing basis
 the effect of all programs authorized under this title, in order to determine
 their effectiveness in achieving stated goals in general, and in achieving
 such goals in relation to their cost, their effect on related programs, and
 their structure and mechanisms for delivery of services. Such information
 as the Secretary may consider necessary for purposes of such evaluations
 shall be made available to the Secretary, upon request, by all departments,
 agencies, and instrumentalities of the executive branch.
 `(b) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall collect, collate, and
 analyze on a continuing basis full statistical data regarding participation
 (including the duration thereof), provision of services, categories of
 beneficiaries, planning and construction of facilities, acquisition of real
 property, proposed excessing of land, accretion and attrition of personnel,
 and categorized expenditures attributable thereto, under all programs
 carried out under this title.
 `(c) The Secretary shall make available to the public, and on a regular
 basis provide to the appropriate committees of the Congress, copies of
 all completed evaluative research studies and summaries of evaluations of
 program impact and effectiveness carried out, and tabulations and analyses
 of all data collected, under this section.
`Sec. 529. Annual report to Congress
 `The Secretary shall submit annually, at the close of each fiscal year,
 a report in writing to Congress. Each such report shall--
 `(1) give an account of all moneys received and disbursed by the Department
 for such fiscal year;
 `(2) describe the work done during such fiscal year; and
 `(3) state the activities of the Department for such fiscal year.
`SUBCHAPTER III--ADVISORY COMMITTEES
`Sec. 541. Advisory Committee on Former Prisoners of War
 `(a)(1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known
 as the Advisory Committee on Former Prisoners of War (hereinafter in this
 section referred to as the `Committee').
 `(2)(A) The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Secretary
 from the general public and shall include--
 `(i) appropriate representatives of veterans who are former prisoners of war;
 `(ii) individuals who are recognized authorities in fields pertinent to
 disabilities prevalent among former prisoners of war, including authorities in
 epidemiology, mental health, nutrition, geriatrics, and internal medicine; and
 `(iii) appropriate representatives of disabled veterans.
 `(B) The Committee shall also include, as ex officio members, the Chief
 Medical Director and the Chief Benefits Director, or their designees.
 `(3) The Secretary shall determine the number, terms of service, and pay
 and allowances of members of the Committee appointed by the Secretary,
 except that the term of service of any such member may not exceed three years.
 `(b) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the
 advice of the Committee with respect to the administration of benefits under
 this title for veterans who are former prisoners of war and the needs of
 such veterans with respect to compensation, health care, and rehabilitation.
 `(c)(1) Not later than July 1 of each odd-numbered year, the Committee
 shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the
 Department that pertain to veterans who are former prisoners of war. Each
 such report shall include--
 `(A) an assessment of the needs of such veterans with respect to compensation,
 health care, and rehabilitation;
 `(B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to
 meet such needs; and
 `(C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative
 and legislative action) as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
 `(2) The Secretary shall, within 60 days after receiving each report under
 paragraph (1), submit to the Congress a copy of the report, together with
 any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and
 recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
 `(4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the
 Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports
 and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the
 previous annual report of the Secretary submitted to the Congress pursuant
 to that section.
`Sec. 542. Advisory Committee on Women Veterans
 `(a)(1) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known
 as the Advisory Committee on Women Veterans (hereinafter in this section
 referred to as `the Committee').
 `(2)(A) The Committee shall consist of members appointed by the Secretary
 from the general public, including--
 `(i) representatives of women veterans;
 `(ii) individuals who are recognized authorities in fields pertinent to the
 needs of women veterans, including the gender-specific health-care needs
 of women; and
 `(iii) representatives of both female and male veterans with service-connected
 disabilities, including at least one female veteran with a service-connected
 disability and at least one male veteran with a service-connected disability.
 `(B) The Committee shall include, as ex officio members--
 `(i) the Secretary of Labor (or a representative of the Secretary of Labor
 designated by the Secretary after consultation with the Assistant Secretary
 of Labor for Veterans' Employment);
 `(ii) the Secretary of Defense (or a representative of the Secretary of
 Defense designated by the Secretary of Defense after consultation with the
 Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services); and
 `(iii) the Chief Medical Director and the Chief Benefits Director, or
 their designees.
 `(C) The Secretary may invite representatives of other departments and
 agencies of the United States to participate in the meetings and other
 activities of the Committee.
 `(3) The Secretary shall determine the number, terms of service, and pay and
 allowances of members of the Committee appointed by the Secretary, except
 that a term of service of any such member may not exceed three years. The
 Secretary may reappoint any such member for additional terms of service.
 `(b) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the
 advice of the Committee with respect to the administration of benefits by
 the Department for women veterans, reports and studies pertaining to women
 veterans and the needs of women veterans with respect to compensation,
 health care, rehabilitation, outreach, and other benefits and programs
 administered by the Department.
 `(c)(1) Not later than July 1 of each even-numbered year, the Committee
 shall submit to the Secretary a report on the programs and activities of the
 Department that pertain to women veterans. Each such report shall include--
 `(A) an assessment of the needs of women veterans with respect to
 compensation, health care, rehabilitation, outreach, and other benefits
 and programs administered by the Department;
 `(B) a review of the programs and activities of the Department designed to
 meet such needs; and
 `(C) such recommendations (including recommendations for administrative
 and legislative action) as the Committee considers appropriate.
 `(2) The Secretary shall, within 60 days after receiving each report under
 paragraph (1), submit to the Congress a copy of the report, together with
 any comments concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(3) The Committee may also submit to the Secretary such other reports and
 recommendations as the Committee considers appropriate.
 `(4) The Secretary shall submit with each annual report submitted to the
 Congress pursuant to section 529 of this title a summary of all reports
 and recommendations of the Committee submitted to the Secretary since the
 previous annual report of the Secretary submitted pursuant to such section.
`CHAPTER 7--EMPLOYEES
`Sec.
`701. Placement of employees in military installations.
`703. Miscellaneous authorities respecting employees.
`705. Telephone service for medical officers and facility directors.
`707. Benefits for employees at overseas offices who are United States
citizens.
`709. Employment restrictions.
`711. Grade reductions.
`Sec. 701. Placement of employees in military installations
 `The Secretary may place employees of the Department in such Army, Navy,
 and Air Force installations as may be considered advisable for the purpose
 of adjudicating disability claims of, and giving aid and advice to, members
 of the Armed Forces who are about to be discharged or released from active
 military, naval, or air service.
`Sec. 703. Miscellaneous authorities respecting employees
 `(a) The Secretary may furnish and launder such wearing apparel as may be
 prescribed for employees in the performance of their official duties.
 `(b) The Secretary may transport children of Department employees located
 at isolated stations to and from school in available Government-owned
 automotive equipment.
 `(c) The Secretary may provide recreational facilities, supplies, and
 equipment for the use of patients in hospitals and employees in isolated
 installations.
 `(d) The Secretary may provide for the preparation, shipment, installation,
 and display of exhibits, photographic displays, moving pictures, and other
 visual educational information and descriptive material. For the purposes
 of the preceding sentence, the Secretary may purchase or rent equipment.
 `(e) The Secretary may reimburse employees for the cost of repairing or
 replacing their personal property damaged or destroyed by patients or
 domiciliary members while such employees are engaged in the performance of
 their official duties.
 `(f)(1) The Secretary, upon determining that an emergency situation exists
 and that such action is necessary for the effective conduct of the affairs of
 the Department, may use Government-owned, or leased, vehicles to transport
 employees to and from their place of employment and the nearest adequate
 public transportation or, if such public transportation is either unavailable
 or not feasible to use, to and from their place of employment and their home.
 `(2) The Secretary shall establish reasonable rates to cover the cost of
 the service rendered under this subsection, and all proceeds collected
 therefrom shall be applied to the applicable appropriation.
`Sec. 705. Telephone service for medical officers and facility directors
 `The Secretary may pay for official telephone service and rental in the field
 whenever incurred in case of official telephones for directors of centers,
 hospitals, independent clinics, domiciliaries, and medical officers of the
 Department where such telephones are installed in private residences or
 private apartments or quarters, when authorized under regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary.
-`Sec. 707. Benefits for employees at overseas offices who are United
States citizens
 `(a) The Secretary may, under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed
 by the President or the President's designee, provide to personnel of the
 Department who are United States citizens and are assigned by the Secretary
 to the Department offices in the Republic of the Philippines allowances
 and benefits similar to those provided by the following provisions of law:
 `(1) Section 905 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (relating to allowances
 to provide for the proper representation of the United States).
 `(2) Sections 901 (1), (2), (3), (4), (7), (8), (9), (11), and (12) of the
 Foreign Service Act of 1980 (relating to travel expenses).
 `(3) Section 901(13) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (relating to
 transportation of automobiles).
 `(4) Section 903 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (relating to the return
 of personnel to the United States on leave of absence).
 `(5) Section 904(d) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (relating to payments
 by the United States of expenses for treating illness or injury of officers
 or employees and dependents requiring hospitalization).
 `(6) Section 5724a(a)(3) of title 5 (relating to subsistence expenses for
 60 days in connection with the return to the United States of the employee
 and such employee's immediate family).
 `(7) Section 5724a(a)(4) of title 5 (relating to the sale and purchase
 of the residence or settlement of an unexpired lease of the employee when
 transferred from one station to another station and both stations are in
 the United States, its territories or possessions, or the Commonwealth of
 Puerto Rico).
 `(b) The authority in subsection (a) supplements, but is not in lieu of, other
 allowances and benefits for overseas employees of the Department provided
 by title 5 and the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.).
`Sec. 709. Employment restrictions
 `(a)(1) Notwithstanding section 3134(d) of title 5, the number of Senior
 Executive Service positions in the Department which are filled by noncareer
 appointees in any fiscal year may not at any time exceed 5 percent of the
 average number of senior executives employed in Senior Executive Service
 positions in the Department during the preceding fiscal year.
 `(2) For purposes of this subsection, the average number of senior executives
 employed in Senior Executive Service positions in the Department during
 a fiscal year shall be equal to 25 percent of the sum of the total number
 of senior executives employed in Senior Executive Service positions in the
 Department on the last day of each quarter of such fiscal year.
 `(b) The number of positions in the Department which may be excepted from
 the competitive service, on a temporary or permanent basis, because of
 their confidential or policy-determining character may not at any time
 exceed the equivalent of 15 positions.
 `(c)(1) Political affiliation or activity may not be taken into account
 in connection with the appointment of any person to any position in or to
 perform any service for the Department or in the assignment or advancement
 of any employee in the Department.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply--
 `(A) to the appointment of any person by the President under this title,
 other than the appointment of the Chief Medical Director, the Chief Benefits
 Director, and the Inspector General; or
 `(B) to the appointment of any person to (i) a Senior Executive Service
 position as a noncareer appointee, or (ii) a position that is excepted from
 the competitive service, on a temporary or permanent basis, because of the
 confidential or policy-determining character of the position.
`Sec. 711. Grade reductions
 `(a)The Secretary may not implement a grade reduction described in subsection
 (b) unless the Secretary first submits to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs
 of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing a detailed plan
 for such reduction and a detailed justification for the plan. The report shall
 include a determination by the Secretary (together with data supporting such
 determination) that, in the personnel area concerned, the Department has a
 disproportionate number of employees at the salary grade or grades selected
 for reduction in comparison to the number of such employees at the salary
 levels involved who perform comparable functions in other departments and
 agencies of the Federal Government and in non-Federal entities. Any grade
 reduction described in such report may not take effect until the end of a
 period of 90 calendar days (not including any day on which either House of
 Congress is not in session) after the report is received by the committees.
 `(b) A grade reduction referred to in subsection (a) is a systematic
 reduction, for the purpose of reducing the average salary cost for Department
 employees described in subsection (c), in the number of such Department
 employees at a specific grade level.
 `(c) The employees referred to in subsection (b) are--
 `(1) health-care personnel who are determined by the Secretary to be
 providing either direct patient-care services or services incident to direct
 patient-care services;
 `(2) individuals who meet the definition of professional employee as set
 forth in section 7103(a)(15) of title 5; and
 `(3) individuals who are employed as computer specialists.
 `(d) Not later than the 45th day after the Secretary submits a report under
 subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to such Committees a
 report on the Secretary's compliance with such subsection. The Comptroller
 General shall include in the report the Comptroller General's opinion as to
 the accuracy of the Secretary's determination (and of the data supporting
 such determination) made under such subsection.
 `(e) In the case of Department employees not described in subsection (c),
 the Secretary may not in any fiscal year implement a systematic reduction for
 the purpose of reducing the average salary cost for such Department employees
 that will result in a reduction in the number of such Department employees at
 any specific grade level at a rate greater than the rate of the reductions
 systematically being made in the numbers of employees at such grade level
 in all other agencies and departments of the Federal Government combined.
`CHAPTER 9--SECURITY AND LAW ENFORCEMENT ON PROPERTY UNDER THE JURISDICTION
OF THE DEPARTMENT
`Sec.
`901. Authority to prescribe rules for conduct and penalties for violations.
`902. Enforcement and arrest authority of Department police officers.
`903. Uniform allowance.
`904. Equipment and weapons.
`905. Use of facilities and services of other law enforcement agencies.
-`Sec. 901. Authority to prescribe rules for conduct and penalties for
violations
 `(a)(1) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to provide for the
 maintenance of law and order and the protection of persons and property on
 Department property.
 `(2) In this chapter, the term `Department property' means land and buildings
 that are under the jurisdiction of the Department and are not under control
 of the Administrator of General Services.
 `(b) Regulations under subsection (a) shall include--
 `(1) rules for conduct on Department property; and
 `(2) the penalties, within the limits specified in subsection (c), for
 violations of such rules.
 `(c) Whoever violates any rule prescribed by regulation under subsection
 (b)(1) shall be fined in accordance with title 18 or imprisoned not more
 than six months, or both. The Secretary may prescribe by regulation a maximum
 fine less than that which would otherwise apply under the preceding sentence
 or a maximum term of imprisonment of a shorter period than that which would
 otherwise apply under the preceding sentence, or both. Any such regulation
 shall apply notwithstanding any provision of title 18 or any other law to
 the contrary.
 `(d) The rules prescribed under subsection (a), together with the penalties
 for violations of such rules, shall be posted conspicuously on property to
 which they apply.
 `(e) The Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General before prescribing
 regulations under this section.
-`Sec. 902. Enforcement and arrest authority of Department police officers
 `(a)(1) Employees of the Department who are Department police officers shall,
 with respect to acts occurring on Department property, enforce--
 `(A) Federal laws;
 `(B) the rules prescribed under section 901 of this title; and
 `(C) subject to paragraph (2), traffic and motor vehicle laws of a State or
 local government within the jurisdiction of which such Department property
 is located.
 `(2) A law described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) may be enforced
 under such subparagraph only as authorized by an express grant of authority
 under applicable State or local law. Any such enforcement shall be by the
 issuance of a citation for violation of such law.
 `(3) Subject to regulations prescribed under subsection (b), a Department
 police officer may make arrests on Department property for a violation of
 a Federal law or any rule prescribed under section 901(a) of this title.
 `(b) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations with respect to Department
 police officers. Such regulations shall include--
 `(1) policies with respect to the exercise by Department police officers
 of the enforcement and arrest authorities provided by this section;
 `(2) the scope and duration of training that is required for Department
 police officers, with particular emphasis on dealing with situations
 involving patients; and
 `(3) rules limiting the carrying and use of weapons by Department police
 officers.
 `(c) The Secretary shall consult with the Attorney General before prescribing
 regulations under paragraph (1) of subsection (b).
 `(d) Rates of basic pay for Department police officers may be increased by
 the Secretary under section 7455 of this title.
`Sec. 903. Uniform allowance
 `(a) The Secretary may pay an allowance under this section for the purchase
 of uniforms to any Department police officer who is required to wear a
 prescribed uniform in the performance of official duties.
 `(b) The amount of the allowance that the Secretary may pay under this
 section--
 `(1) may be based on estimated average costs or actual costs;
 `(2) may vary by geographic regions; and
 `(3) except as provided in subsection (c), may not exceed $200 in a fiscal
 year for any police officer.
 `(c) The amount of an allowance under this section may be increased to
 an amount up to $400 for not more than one fiscal year in the case of any
 Department police officer. In the case of a person who is appointed as a
 Department police officer on or after January 1, 1990, an allowance in an
 amount established under this subsection shall be paid at the beginning
 of such person's employment as such an officer. In the case of any other
 Department police officer, an allowance in an amount established under this
 subsection shall be paid upon the request of the officer.
 `(d) A police officer who resigns as a police officer less than one year
 after receiving an allowance in an amount established under this section
 shall repay to the Department a pro rata share of the amount paid, based on
 the number of months the officer was actually employed as such an officer
 during the twelve-month period following the date on which such officer
 began such employment or the date on which the officer submitted a request
 for such an allowance, as the case may be.
 `(e) An allowance may not be paid to a Department police officer under this
 section and under section 5901 of title 5 for the same fiscal year.
`Sec. 904. Equipment and weapons
 `The Secretary shall furnish Department police officers with such weapons and
 related equipment as the Secretary determines to be necessary and appropriate.
-`Sec. 905. Use of facilities and services of other law enforcement agencies
 `With the permission of the head of the agency concerned, the Secretary may
 use the facilities and services of Federal, State, and local law enforcement
 agencies when it is economical and in the public interest to do so.'.
 (b) VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION- Part V of title 38, United States Code,
 is amended by inserting after chapter 76 the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 77--VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION
`SUBCHAPTER I--ORGANIZATION; GENERAL
`Sec.
`7701. Organization of the Administration.
`7703. Functions of the Administration.
`SUBCHAPTER II--VETERANS OUTREACH SERVICES PROGRAM
`7721. Purpose; definitions.
`7722. Outreach services.
`7723. Veterans assistance offices.
`7724. Outstationing of counseling and outreach personnel.
`7725. Use of other agencies.
`7726. Annual report to Congress.
`SUBCHAPTER I--ORGANIZATION; GENERAL
`Sec. 7701. Organization of the Administration
 `(a) There is in the Department of Veterans Affairs a Veterans Benefits
 Administration. The primary function of the Veterans Benefits Administration
 is the administration of nonmedical benefits programs of the Department
 which provide assistance to veterans and their dependents and survivors.
 `(b) The Veterans Benefits Administration is under the Chief Benefits
 Director, who is directly responsible to the Secretary for the operations
 of the Administration.
`Sec. 7703. Functions of the Administration
 `The Veterans Benefits Administration is responsible for the administration
 of the following programs of the Department:
 `(1) Compensation and pension programs.
 `(2) Vocational rehabilitation and educational assistance programs.
 `(3) Veterans' housing loan programs.
 `(4) Veterans' and servicemembers' life insurance programs.
 `(5) Outreach programs and other veterans' services programs.
`SUBCHAPTER II--VETERANS OUTREACH SERVICES PROGRAM
`Sec. 7721. Purpose; definitions
 `(a) The Congress declares that the outreach services program authorized by
 this subchapter is for the purpose of ensuring that all veterans (especially
 those who have been recently discharged or released from active military,
 naval, or air service and those who are eligible for readjustment or other
 benefits and services under laws administered by the Department) are provided
 timely and appropriate assistance to aid and encourage them in applying for
 and obtaining such benefits and services in order that they may achieve a
 rapid social and economic readjustment to civilian life and obtain a higher
 standard of living for themselves and their dependents. The Congress further
 declares that the outreach services program authorized by this subchapter
 is for the purpose of charging the Department with the affirmative duty of
 seeking out eligible veterans and eligible dependents and providing them
 with such services.
 `(b) For the purposes of this subchapter--
 `(1) the term `other governmental programs' includes all programs under
 State or local laws as well as all programs under Federal law other than
 those authorized by this title; and
 `(2) the term `eligible dependent' means an `eligible person' as defined
 in section 3501(a)(1) of this title.
`Sec. 7722. Outreach services
 `(a) In carrying out the purposes of this subchapter, the Secretary
 shall provide the outreach services specified in subsections (b) through
 (d). In areas where a significant number of eligible veterans and eligible
 dependents speak a language other than English as their principal language,
 such services shall, to the maximum feasible extent, be provided in the
 principal language of such persons.
 `(b) The Secretary shall by letter advise each veteran at the time of the
 veteran's discharge or release from active military, naval, or air service
 (or as soon as possible after such discharge or release) of all benefits and
 services under laws administered by the Department for which the veteran may
 be eligible. In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall ensure,
 through the use of veteran-student services under section 3485 of this title,
 that contact, in person or by telephone, is made with those veterans who,
 on the basis of their military service records, do not have a high school
 education or equivalent at the time of discharge or release.
 `(c) The Secretary shall distribute full information to eligible veterans
 and eligible dependents regarding all benefits and services to which they
 may be entitled under laws administered by the Department and may, to the
 extent feasible, distribute information on other governmental programs
 (including manpower and training programs) which the Secretary determines
 would be beneficial to veterans.
 `(d) The Secretary shall provide, to the maximum extent possible, aid and
 assistance (including personal interviews) to members of the Armed Forces,
 veterans, and eligible dependents with respect to subsections (b) and (c)
 and in the preparation and presentation of claims under laws administered
 by the Department.
`Sec. 7723. Veterans assistance offices
 `(a) The Secretary shall establish and maintain veterans assistance offices at
 such places throughout the United States and its territories and possessions,
 and in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, as the Secretary determines to be
 necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. In establishing
 and maintaining such offices, the Secretary shall give due regard to--
 `(1) the geographical distribution of veterans recently discharged or
 released from active military, naval, or air service;
 `(2) the special needs of educationally disadvantaged veterans (including
 their need for accessibility of outreach services); and
 `(3) the necessity of providing appropriate outreach services in less
 populated areas.
 `(b) The Secretary shall establish and carry out all possible programs and
 services, including special telephone facilities, as may be necessary to
 make the outreach services provided for under this subchapter as widely
 available as possible.
`Sec. 7724. Outstationing of counseling and outreach personnel
 `The Secretary may station employees of the Department at locations other
 than Department offices, including educational institutions, to provide
 counseling and other assistance regarding benefits under this title to
 veterans and other persons eligible for benefits under this title and to
 provide outreach services under this subchapter.
`Sec. 7725. Use of other agencies
 `In carrying out this subchapter, the Secretary shall do the following:
 `(1) Arrange with the Secretary of Labor for the State employment service
 to match the particular qualifications of an eligible veteran or eligible
 dependent with an appropriate job or job training opportunity, including,
 where possible, arrangements for outstationing the State employment personnel
 who provide such assistance at appropriate facilities of the Department.
 `(2) In consultation with the Secretary of Labor, actively seek to promote
 the development and establishment of employment opportunities, training
 opportunities, and other opportunities for veterans, with particular emphasis
 on the needs of veterans with service-connected disabilities and other
 eligible veterans, taking into account applicable rates of unemployment
 and the employment emphases set forth in chapter 42 of this title.
 `(3) Cooperate with and use the services of any Federal department or agency
 or any State or local governmental agency or recognized national or other
 organization.
 `(4) Where appropriate, make referrals to any Federal department or agency or
 State or local governmental unit or recognized national or other organization.
 `(5) At the Secretary of Veterans Affairs discretion, furnish available
 space and office facilities for the use of authorized representatives of
 such governmental unit or other organization providing services.
 `(6) Conduct and provide for studies in consultation with appropriate
 Federal departments and agencies to determine the most effective program
 design to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
`Sec. 7726. Annual report to Congress
 `The Secretary shall include in the annual report to the Congress required by
 section 529 of this title a report on the activities carried out under this
 subchapter. Each such report shall include an appraisal of the effectiveness
 of the programs authorized in this subchapter and recommendations for the
 improvement or more effective administration of those programs.'.
 (c) CROSS-REFERENCES TO PREVIOUS CHAPTER 3 SECTIONS-
 (1) Section 621 is amended by striking out `section 210(c)(1)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 501(a)'.
 (2) Section 1685(a)(1) is amended by striking out `subchapter IV of chapter
 3' and inserting in lieu thereof `subchapter II of chapter 77'.
 (3) The following sections are amended by striking out `section 214' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 529': sections 618(c)(3), 654, 1521(c),
 1833(c)(2), and 7101(c)(3).
 (4) Section 2003A(b)(2) is amended by striking out `section 242' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 7723'.
 (5) Section 2014(g) is amended by striking out `section 241' and `section 243'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7722' and `section 7724', respectively.
 (6) Section 5701(g)(2)(A)(ii) is amended by striking out `section 219'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `section 527'.
 (7) Section 7455(a)(2)(C) is amended by striking out `section 218' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 902'.
 (d) TABLES OF CHAPTERS-
 (1) The table of chapters before part I is amended--
 (A) by striking out the item relating to chapter 3 and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following:
301
501
701
901'.
and
 (B) by inserting after the item relating to chapter 76 the following new item:
7701'.
 (2) The table of chapters at the beginning of part I is amended by striking
 out the item relating to chapter 3 and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
301
501
701
901'.
 (3) The table of chapters at the beginning of part V is amended by inserting
 after the item relating to chapter 76 the following new item:
7701'.
SEC. 3. CONFORMING REPEALS TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS ACT.
 The following provisions of the Department of Veterans Affairs Act (Public
 Law 100-527) are repealed:
 (1) The second and third sentences of section 2.
 (2) The second sentence of section 7.
 (3) Sections 3, 4, 5, 8(a), 9(b), 12, and16.
SEC. 4. ADDITIONAL CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE,
TO REFLECT THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
 (a) REFERENCES TO VETERANS' ADMINISTRATION-
 (1) Title 38 is amended by striking out `administered by the Veterans'
 Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
 `administered by the Secretary'.
 (2)(A) The following provisions are amended by striking out `Veterans'
 Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary':
 (i) Subsections (d) and (e) of section 103.
 (ii) Section 620(f)(1)(B) (in the second sentence).
 (iii) In chapter 19--
 (I) subsection (a) and the first sentence of subsection (b) of section 707;
 (II) section 710;
 (III) section 718(a);
 (IV) subsections (a) and (b) (in two places) of section 722;
 (V) section 746;
 (VI) section 747 (in the last sentence);
 (VII) section 784(a) (in each of the four places `Veterans' Administration'
 appears); and
 (VIII) section 784(b) (in the sixth sentence).
 (iv) Section 1810(e)(2).
 (v) Paragraphs (4)(B) and (5)(B) of section 1812(a).
 (vi) Section 5110(n).
 (vii) Section 5301(e)(2).
 (viii) Section 5305 (in the last sentence).
 (ix) Subsection (a)(2) (in the first place `Veterans' Administration'
 appears), subsection (d) (in the last sentence), and subsection (e)
 (in the first place `Veterans' Administration' appears) of section 5502.
 (x) Section 5503(b)(1)(A).
 (xi) Paragraph (1) (in the first place `Veterans' Administration' appears),
 paragraph (2), and paragraph (3) of section 5701(c).
 (xii) Section 5702(a) (in two places).
 (xiii) Section 5703 (in each place `Veterans' Administration' appears).
 (xiv) Section 6105(a) (in the second sentence).
 (B) The following provisions are amended by striking out `Veterans'
 Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans
 Affairs':
 (i) Section 113(b)(2)(A).
 (ii) Section 725(d)(3) (the second place `Veterans' Administration' appears).
 (iii) Section 777(g).
 (iv) Section 1814(d).
 (v) Section 1849(a).
 (vi) Sections 7601(a), 7611, and 7621.
 (C) The following provisions of chapter 19 are amended by striking out `in the
 Veterans' Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof `by the Secretary':
 (i) The second sentence of section 707(b).
 (ii) Section 712(b).
 (iii) Section 742(c).
 (D) The following provisions of chapter 19 are amended by striking out `in the
 Veterans' Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof `with the Secretary':
 (i) Section 722(b)(3).
 (ii) Section 784(b) (in the third sentence).
 (E) Section 601(4) is amended by striking out `Veterans' Administration
 facilities' and inserting in lieu thereof `facilities of the Department'.
 (F) Section 5705(b) is amended--
 (i) by striking out `Veterans' Administration patient or employee,' in
 paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof `patient or employee of the
 Department,'; and
 (ii) by striking out `Veterans' Administration patients or employees'
 in paragraph (6) and inserting in lieu thereof `patients or employees of
 the Department,'.
 (3) Such title is further amended by striking out `Veterans' Administration'
 each place it appears (other than as amended under paragraphs (1) and (2)
 and as specified in paragraph (4)) and inserting in lieu thereof `Department'.
 (4) Paragraph (3) does not apply to the following provisions:
 (A) Section 532(c).
 (B) Section 1000(b) (each place the term `Veterans' Administration' appears).
 (C) Section 1004(c)(2)(A).
 (D) Section 5311.
 (5) Such title is further amended by striking out `non-Veterans'
 Administration' each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof
 `non-Department'.
 (6) Section 111(b)(3)(B) is amended by striking out `Veteran's  Administration
 facility' and inserting in lieu thereof `Department facility'.
 (b) REFERENCES TO ADMINISTRATOR-
 (1) Title 38 is further amended by striking out `Administrator' and
 `Administrator's' each place they appear (except as provided in paragraphs
 (2) and (9) and including where they appear in section headings and tables
 of sections) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary' and `Secretary's',
 respectively.
 (2)(A) Section 422 is amended--
 (i) in subsection (a), by striking out `Administrator' both places it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (ii) in subsection (b)--
 (I) by striking out `Upon the basis of' and all that follows through `shall
 pay to the Secretary' and inserting in lieu thereof `The Secretary shall
 pay to the Secretary of Health and Human Services'; and
 (II) by striking out `as the Secretary and the Administrator may prescribe'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `as the two Secretaries may prescribe, with
 the amount of such payments to be made on the basis of estimates made by the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services after consultation with the Secretary'.
 (B) Section 613(b)(1) is amended--
 (i) by striking out `Administrator' and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary
 of Veterans Affairs';
 (ii) by striking out `the Secretary' the second and third places it appears
 and inserting in lieu thereof `that Secretary'; and
 (iii) by striking out `the Secretary' the last place it appears and inserting
 in lieu thereof `the Secretary of Defense'.
 (C) Section 723(c) is amended by striking out `the Administrator and
 Secretary' at the end of the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the two Secretaries'.
 (D) Section 8153(d)(2) is amended by striking out `the Secretary and the
 Administrator' and inserting in lieu thereof `the two Secretaries'.
 (E) Paragraph (1) does not apply to the following provisions:
 (i) Section 101(1).
 (ii) Section 111 the second place `Administrator' appears in subsection
 (g)(1) of that section.
 (iii) Section 1652(b).
 (iv) Section 5105.
 (v) Section 7267(e) the second place `Administrator' appears.
 (vi) Section 8111A(d).
 (3)(A) The heading of section 423 is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 423. Certifications with respect to circumstances of death'.
 (B) The item relating to that section in the table of sections at the
 beginning of chapter 13 is amended to read as follows:
`423. Certifications with respect to circumstances of death.'.
 (4) The following provisions are amended by striking out `the Secretary'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `that Secretary':
 (A) Section 560(b) (the second place `the Secretary' appears).
 (B) Section 5110(j) (the second place `the Secretary' appears).
 (C) Section 5301(c)(2) (the second, third, and fourth place `the Secretary'
 appears).
 (5) Section 612(j) is amended by striking out `the Secretary' in the second
 and third sentences and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary of Health
 and Human Services'.
 (6) Section 612A(h) is repealed.
 (7) Section 1004(c)(2)(A) is amended by striking out `Secretary' the first
 place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Administrator of Veterans'
 Affairs'.
 (8) Section 2012 is amended by striking out `Secretary' each place it appears
 in subsections (c) and (d) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Labor'.
 (9) Section 5105 is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(a)' at the beginning of the text of the section;
 (B) by striking out `Administrator' in the first sentence and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Secretary';
 (C) by striking out `; and' in the second sentence and inserting in lieu
 thereof a period;
 (D) by striking out `when an application on such form has been filed with
 either the Administrator' and inserting in lieu thereof the following
 (indented so as to make the following text a new subsection):
 `(b) When an application on such a form is filed with either the Secretary';
 (E) by striking out `filed with the Administrator' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `filed with either Secretary';
 (F) by striking out `received by the Administrator' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `received by that Secretary';
 (G) by striking out `needed by the Secretary' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `needed by the other Secretary';
 (H) by striking out `by the Administrator to the Secretary;' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `by the Secretary receiving the application to the other
 Secretary.';
 (I) by striking out `and a copy' and all that follows through `to the
 Administrator.'; and
 (J) by striking out `the Secretary and the Administrator' in the last
 sentence and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary and the Secretary of
 Health and Human Services'.
 (c) REFERENCES TO CHIEF LAW OFFICER- Section 7104(c) is amended by striking
 out `chief law officer' and inserting in lieu thereof `chief legal officer
 of the Department'.
SEC. 5. REDESIGNATION OF SECTIONS OF CHAPTERS 11 THROUGH 42.
 (a) REDESIGNATION OF SECTIONS TO CONFORM TO CHAPTER NUMBERS- Each section
 contained in any of chapters 11 through 23 is redesignated by replacing the
 first digit of the section number with the number of the chapter containing
 that section. Each section contained in any of chapters 24 through 42 is
 redesignated so that the first two digits of the section number of that
 section are the same as the chapter number of the chapter containing that
 section.
 (b) TABLES OF SECTIONS AND CHAPTERS- (1) The tables of sections at the
 beginning of the chapters referred to in subsection (a) are revised so as
 to conform the section references in those tables to the redesignations
 made by that subsection.
 (2) The table of chapters before part I and the tables of chapters at the
 beginning of parts I, II, and III are revised so as to conform the section
 references in those tables to the redesignations made by subsection (a).
 (c) CROSS-REFERENCES- (1) Each provision of title 38, United States Code,
 that contains a reference to a section redesignated by subsection (a)
 is amended so that the reference refers to the section as redesignated.
 (2) Any reference in a provision of law other than title 38, United States
 Code, to a section redesignated by subsection (a) shall be deemed to refer
 to the section as so redesignated.
 (d) RULE FOR EXECUTION- The redesignations made by subsection (a) and the
 amendments made by subsections (b) and (c) shall be executed after any
 other amendments made by this Act.
SEC. 6. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO OTHER VETERANS LAWS TO REFLECT THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
 (a) PUBLIC LAW 94-581- Section 105(b) of the Veterans Omnibus Health Care
 Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-581; 38 U.S.C. 619 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator is authorized to' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs may';
 (2) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' the first place it appears
 and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (3) by striking out `Veterans' Administration facilities and personnel'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `facilities and personnel of the Department';
 (4) by striking out `Veterans' Administration health care facilities'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `health care facilities of the Department';
 (5) by striking out `Administrator deems' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `Secretary considers'; and
 (6) by striking out `Administrator' both places it appears in paragraph
 (2) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary'.
 (b) PUBLIC LAW 95-202- Section 401 of the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977
 (38 U.S.C. 106 note) is amended by striking out `laws administered by the
 Veterans' Administration' in subsections (a)(1) and (b)(2) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs'.
 (c) PUBLIC LAW 95-588- Section 306 of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension
 Improvement Act of 1978 (38 U.S.C. 521 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (a)(1)(A) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs (hereinafter in this section
 referred to as the `Secretary')';
 (2) by striking out `Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' in subsections
 (a)(3), (b)(2)(A), and (e) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary'; and
 (3) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (b)(4) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Secretary'.
 (d) PUBLIC LAW 96-22- Section 103(b) of the Veterans' Health Care Amendments
 of 1979 (Public Law 96-22; 38 U.S.C. 612A note) is amended by striking out
 `the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of Veterans'
 Affairs' and inserting in lieu thereof `June 13, 1979, the Secretary of
 Veterans Affairs'.
 (e) PUBLIC LAW 96-128- Section 502 of the Veterans' Disability Compensation
 and Survivors' Benefits Amendments of 1979 (Public Law 96-128; 93 Stat. 987)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (2) by striking out `such Administrator' both places it appears and inserting
 in lieu thereof `such Secretary'; and
 (3) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `Department of Veterans Affairs'.
 (f) PUBLIC LAW 98-160- Section 302 of the Veterans Health Care Amendments
 of 1983 (Public Law 98-160; 38 U.S.C. 601 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `The Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `The Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (2) by striking out `the Administrator' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Secretary'; and
 (3) by striking out `Department of Medicine and Surgery' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Veterans Health Administration'.
 (g) PUBLIC LAW 99-238- Section 202 of the Veterans' Compensation Rate Increase
 and Job Training Amendments of 1985 (38 U.S.C. 1516 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' in subsection (a)
 and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (2) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (b) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'.
 (h) PUBLIC LAW 99-576- Section 232 of the Veterans' Benefits Improvement
 and Health-Care Authorization Act of 1986 (38 U.S.C. 354 note) is amended
 as follows:
 (1) Subsection (a) is amended by striking out `Administrator of Veterans'
 Affairs' and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'.
 (2) Subsection (b) is amended by striking out `Veterans' Administration'
 each place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans
 Affairs'.
 (3) Subsection (c) is amended by striking out `before the date of the
 enactment of this Act, the Administrator' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `before October 28, 1986, the Secretary'.
 (4) Subsection (d) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `Administrator' both places it appears and inserting
 in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (C) by striking out `the Department of Veterans' Benefits and the Department
 of Medicine and Surgery' in paragraph (1)(A) and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Veterans Benefits Administration and the Veterans Health Administration';
 and
 (D) by striking out `after the enactment of this Act' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `after October 28, 1986'.
 (5) Subsection (e) is amended by striking out `Administrator' both places
 it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'.
 (i) PUBLIC LAW 100-198- Section 9 of the Veterans' Home Loan Program
 Improvements and Property Rehabilitation Act of 1987 (38 U.S.C. 1823 note)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' in subsections (a)(1)
 and (b)(1) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (2) by striking out `Administrator' each additional place it appears
 in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary of
 Veterans Affairs';
 (3) by striking out `Veterans' Administration's ability' in subsection
 (a)(3)(A) and inserting in lieu thereof `ability of the Department of
 Veterans Affairs'; and
 (4) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' in subsections (a)(3)(A)(i)
 and (a)(3)(C) and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs'.
 (j) PUBLIC LAW 100-322- The Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988
 (Public Law 100-322) is amended as follows:
 (1) Section 115 (38 U.S.C. 612 note) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (a)(1) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `Administrator' each place it appears in subsections
 (a)(2), (b), and (c) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary'; and
 (C) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears
 (other than in subsection (e)) and inserting in lieu thereof `Department
 of Veterans Affairs'.
 (2) Section 123 (38 U.S.C. 210 note) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (a) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `Administrator' each place it appears in subsections
 (b) and (c) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary'; and
 (C) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs'.
 (3) Section 124 (38 U.S.C. 4133 note) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `Administrator' in subsection (a) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `Administrator' each place it appears in subsection
 (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary';
 (C) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' the first two places it
 appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (D) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' the last place it appears
 and inserting in lieu thereof `Department'.
 (k) PUBLIC LAW 100-687- The Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 1988
 (division B of Public Law 100-687) is amended as follows:
 (1) Section 1203 (102 Stat. 4125) is amended by striking out `laws
 administered by the Veterans' Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs'.
 (2) Section 1204 (102 Stat. 4125; 38 U.S.C. 241 note) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `The Administrator' in subsections (a) and (b) and
 inserting in lieu thereof `The Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' in subsection (b) and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (C) by striking out `the Administrator' both places it appears in subsection
 (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary'.
 (3) Section 1404 (102 Stat. 4131; 38 U.S.C. 210 note) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' both places it appears in
 subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Veterans Affairs';
 (B) by striking out `the Administrator' the first place it appears in
 subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary of Veterans
 Affairs';
 (C) by striking out `the Administrator and the Secretary' in subsections
 (a) and (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
 and the Secretary of Labor';
 (D) by striking out `the Administrator' the first place it appears in
 subsection (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary of Veterans
 Affairs'; and
 (E) by striking out `the Administrator or the Secretary' in the third
 sentence of subsection (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `the Secretary of
 Veterans Affairs or the Secretary of Labor'.
SEC. 7. GENERAL SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
 (a) REFERENCES TO REPLACED LAWS- A reference to a provision of title 38,
 United States Code, replaced by a provision of that title enacted by section
 2 (including a reference in a regulation, order, or other law) shall be
 treated as referring to the corresponding provision enacted by this Act.
 (b) SAVINGS PROVISION FOR REGULATIONS- A regulation, rule, or order in
 effect under a provision of title 38, United States Code, replaced by a
 provision of that title enacted by section 2 shall continue in effect under
 the corresponding provision enacted by this Act until repealed, amended,
 or superseded.
 (c) GENERAL SAVINGS PROVISION- An action taken or an offense committed
 under a provision of title 38, United States Code, replaced by a provision
 of that title enacted by section 2 shall be treated as having been taken
 or committed under the corresponding provision enacted by this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.