 
--H.R.2927--
H.R.2927
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the establishment of the St. Croix, Virgin Islands Historical
Park and Ecological Preserve, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Omnibus Insular Areas Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--SALT RIVER BAY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK AND ECOLOGICAL PRESERVE AT
ST. CROIX, VIRGIN ISLANDS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Salt River Bay National Historical Park
 and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands, Act of 1992'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that the Salt River Bay area of the north central coast
 of St. Croix, United States Virgin Islands--
 (1) has been inhabited, possibly as far back as 2000 B.C., and encompasses
 all major cultural periods in the United States Virgin Islands;
 (2) contains the only ceremonial ball court ever discovered in the Lesser
 Antilles, village middens, and burial grounds which can provide evidence
 for the interpretation of Caribbean life prior to Columbus;
 (3) is the only known site where members of the Columbus expeditions set
 foot on what is now United States territory;
 (4) was a focal point of  various European attempts to colonize the area
 during the post-Columbian period and contains sites of Spanish,  French,
 Dutch, English, and Danish settlements, including Fort Sale, one of the
 few remaining earthwork fortifications in the Western Hemisphere;
 (5) presents an outstanding opportunity to preserve and interpret Caribbean
 history and culture, including the impact of European exploration and
 settlement;
 (6) has been a national natural landmark since February 1980 and has been
 nominated for acquisition as a nationally significant wildlife habitat;
 (7) contains the largest remaining mangrove forest  in the United States
 Virgin Islands and a variety of tropical marine and terrestrial ecosystems
 which should be preserved and kept unimpaired for the benefit of present
 and future generations; and
 (8) is worthy of a comprehensive preservation effort that should be carried
 out in partnership between the Federal Government and the Government of
 the United States Virgin Islands.
SEC. 103. SALT RIVER BAY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK AND ECOLOGICAL PRESERVE
AT ST. CROIX, VIRGIN ISLANDS.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to preserve, protect, and interpret for the
 benefit of present and future generations certain nationally significant
 historical, cultural, and natural sites and resources in the Virgin Islands,
 there is established the Salt River Bay National Historical Park and
 Ecological Preserve at St. Croix, Virgin Islands (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `park').
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- The park shall consist of approximately 912 acres of land,
 waters, submerged lands, and interests therein within the area generally
 depicted on the map entitled `Salt River Study Area--Alternative `C' in the
 `Alternatives Study and Environmental Assessment for the Columbus Landing
 Site, St. Croix, U.S. Virgin Islands', prepared by the National Park
 Service and dated June 1990. The map shall be on file and available for
 public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service,  Department
 of the Interior, and the Offices of the Lieutenant Governor of St. Thomas
 and St. Croix, Virgin Islands.
SEC. 104. ACQUISITION OF LAND.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this
 title referred to as the `Secretary') may acquire land and interests in
 land within the boundaries of the park by donation, purchase with donated or
 appropriated funds, or exchange. Nothing in this section shall be construed
 to prohibit the Government of the United States Virgin Islands from acquiring
 land or interest in land within the boundaries of the park.
 (b) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY- Lands, and interests in lands, within the
 boundaries of the park which are owned by the United States Virgin Islands,
 or any political subdivision thereof, may be acquired only by donation or
 exchange. No lands, or interests therein, containing dwellings lying within
 the park boundary as of July 1, 1991, may be acquired without the consent
 of the owner, unless the Secretary determines, after consultation with the
 Government of the United States Virgin Islands, that the land is being
 developed or proposed to be developed in a manner which is detrimental
 to the natural, scenic, historic, and other values for which the park
 was established.
SEC. 105. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The park shall be administered in accordance with this
 title and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the
 national park system, including, but not limited to, the Act entitled `An
 Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved
 August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4) and the Act of August 21,
 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467). In the case of any conflict between
 the provisions of this Act and such generally applicable provisions of law,
 the provisions of this Act shall govern.
 (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary, after consulting with the Salt
 River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix,
 Virgin Islands, Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Commission') established by section 106 of this title, is authorized to
 enter into cooperative agreements with the United States Virgin Islands,
 or any political subdivision thereof, for the management of the park and
 for other purposes.
 (c) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- (1) Not later than 3 years after the date funds
 are made available for this subsection, the Secretary, in consultation with
 the Commission, and with public involvement, shall develop and submit to the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House
 of Representatives a general management plan for the park. The general
 management plan shall describe the appropriate protection, management,
 uses, and development of the park consistent with the purposes of this title.
 (2) The general management plan shall include, but not be limited to,
 the following:
 (A) Plans for implementation of a continuing program of interpretation and
 visitor education about the resources and values of the park.
 (B) Proposals for visitor use facilities to be developed for the park.
 (C) Plans for management of the natural and cultural resources of the park,
 with particular emphasis on the preservation of both the cultural and
 natural resources and long-term scientific study of terrestrial, marine,
 and archeological resources, giving high priority to the enforcement
 of the provisions of the Archeological Resources Protection Act of 1979
 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et seq.) and the National Historic Preservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) within the park. The natural and cultural resources
 management plans shall be prepared in consultation with the Virgin Islands
 Division of Archeology and Historic Preservation.
 (D) Proposals for assessing the potential operation and supply of park
 concessions by qualified Virgin Islands-owned businesses.
 (E) Plans for the training of personnel in accordance with subsection (e).
 (d) TRAINING ASSISTANCE- During the 10-year period beginning on the date
 of enactment of this title, the Secretary shall, subject to appropriations,
 provide the funds for the employees of the Government of the United States
 Virgin Islands directly engaged in the joint management of the park and shall
 implement, in consultation with the Government of the United States Virgin
 Islands, a program under which Virgin Islands citizens may be trained in
 all phases of park operations and management: Provided, however, That in
 no event shall the Secretary provide more than 50 percent of the funding
 for such purposes. A primary objective of the program shall be to train
 employees in the skills necessary for operating and managing a Virgin
 Islands Territorial Park System.
SEC. 106. SALT RIVER BAY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK AND ECOLOGICAL PRESERVE
AT ST. CROIX, VIRGIN ISLANDS, COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a commission to be known as the Salt
 River Bay National Historical Park and Ecological Preserve at St. Croix,
 Virgin Islands, Commission.
 (b) DUTIES- The Commission shall--
 (1) make recommendations on how all lands and waters within the boundaries
 of the park can be jointly managed by the governments of the United States
 Virgin Islands and the United States in accordance with this title;
 (2) consult with the Secretary on the development of the general management
 plan required by section 105 of this title; and
 (3) provide advice and recommendations to the Government of the United
 States Virgin Islands, upon request of the Government of the United States
 Virgin Islands.
 (c) MEMBERSHIP- The Commission shall be composed of 10 members, as follows:
 (1) The Governor of the United States Virgin Islands, or the designee of
 the Governor.
 (2) The Secretary, or the designee of the Secretary.
 (3) Four members appointed by the Secretary.
 (4) Four members appointed by the Secretary from a list provided by the
 Governor of the United States Virgin Islands, at least one of whom shall
 be a member of the Legislature of the United States Virgin Islands.
Initial appointments made under this subsection shall be made within 120 days
after the date of enactment of this title, except that the appointments made
under paragraph (4) shall be made within 120 days after the date on which
the Secretary receives such list.
 (d) TERMS- The members appointed under paragraphs (3) and (4) shall be
 appointed for terms of 4 years. A member of the Commission appointed for a
 definite term may serve after the expiration of the member's term until a
 successor is appointed. A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the
 same manner in which the original appointment was made and shall be filled
 within 60 days after the expiration of the term.
 (e) CHAIR- The Chair of the Commission shall alternate annually between the
 Secretary and the Governor of the United States Virgin Islands. All other
 officers of the Commission shall be elected by a majority of the members
 of the Commission to serve for terms established by the Commission.
 (f) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet on a regular basis or at the call of
 the Chair. Notice of meetings and agenda shall be published in the Federal
 Register and local newspapers having a distribution that generally covers
 the United States Virgin Islands. Commission meetings shall be held at
 locations and in such a manner as to ensure adequate public involvement.
 (g) EXPENSES- Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
 as such, but the Secretary may pay each member of the Commission travel
 expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with
 section 5703 of title 5, United States Code. Members of the Commission
 who are full-time officers or employees of the United States or the Virgin
 Islands Government may not receive additional pay, allowances, or benefits
 by reason of their service on the Commission. The Secretary shall provide
 the Commission with a budget for travel expenses and staff, and guidelines
 by which expenditures shall be accounted for.
 (h) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT- Except with respect to the provisions of
 section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, and except as otherwise
 provided in this title, the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act
 (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Commission.
 (i) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate 10 years after the date of
 enactment of this title unless the Secretary determines that it is necessary
 to continue consulting with the Commission in carrying out the purposes of
 this title.
SEC. 107. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this title.
TITLE II--INSULAR AREAS DISASTER SURVIVAL AND RECOVERY
SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this title--
 (1) the term `insular area' means any of the following: American Samoa,
 the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Marshall Islands, the
 Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands,
 and the Virgin Islands;
 (2) the term `disaster' means a declaration of a major disaster by the
 President after September 1, 1989, pursuant to section 401 of the Robert
 T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170); and
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums
 as may be necessary to--
 (1) reconstruct essential public facilities damaged by disasters in the
 insular areas that occurred prior to the date of the enactment of this
 Act; and
 (2) enhance the survivability of essential public facilities in the event
 of disasters in the insular areas,
except that with respect to the disaster declared by the President in the
case of Hurricane Hugo, September 1989, amounts for any fiscal year shall
not exceed 25 percent of the estimated aggregate amount of grants to be made
under sections 403 and 406 of The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b, 5172) for such disaster. Such
sums shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 203. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
 (a) Upon the declaration by the President of a disaster in an insular area,
 the President, acting through the Director of the Federal Emergency Management
 Agency, shall assess, in cooperation with the Secretary and chief executive
 of such insular area, the capability of the insular government to respond
 to the disaster, including the capability to assess damage; coordinate
 activities with Federal agencies, particularly the Federal Emergency
 Management Agency; develop recovery plans, including recommendations for
 enhancing the survivability of essential infrastructure; negotiate and
 manage reconstruction contracts; and prevent the misuse of funds. If the
 President finds that the insular government lacks any of these or other
 capabilities essential to the recovery effort, then the President shall
 provide technical assistance to the insular area which the President deems
 necessary for the recovery effort.
 (b) One year following the declaration by the President of a disaster in
 an insular area, the Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall submit to the Senate Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources and the House Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs a report on the status of the recovery effort, including an audit
 of Federal funds expended in the  recovery effort and recommendations on
 how to improve public health and safety, survivability of infrastructure,
 recovery efforts, and effective use of funds in the event of future disasters.
SEC. 204. HAZARD MITIGATION.
 The total of contributions under the last sentence of section 404 of
 The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act
 (42 U.S.C. 5170c) for the insular areas shall not exceed 10 percent of
 the estimated aggregate amounts of grants to be made under sections 403,
 406, 407, 408, and 411 of such Act for any disaster: Provided, That the
 President shall require a 50 percent local match for assistance in excess
 of 10 percent of the estimated aggregate amount of grants to be made under
 section 406 of such Act for any disaster.
SEC. 205. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 Paragraphs (3) and (4) of section 102 of The Robert T. Stafford Disaster
 Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122) are each amended by
 inserting after `American Samoa,' the following: `the Northern Mariana
 Islands,'.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. AMERICAN SAMOA WATER AND POWER STUDY.
 (a) The Secretary of the Interior shall undertake a comprehensive study, or
 as appropriate review and update existing studies, to determine the current
 and long-term water, power, and wastewater needs of American Samoa. Such
 study shall be conducted in consultation with the American Samoa government,
 and in consultation with those Federal agencies which have recent experience
 with the water, power and wastewater needs of American Samoa.
 (b) The Secretary of the Interior shall report the results of this study to
 the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate
 and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States
 House of Representatives, before December 31, 1992. The report shall include--
 (1) an assessment of the water, power and wastewater needs of American
 Samoa both currently, and for the year 2000;
 (2) an assessment of, and recommendations regarding, how these needs can
 be met;
 (3) an assessment of, and recommendations regarding, any additional legal
 authority or funding which may be necessary to meet these needs; and
 (4) an assessment of, and recommendations regarding, the respective roles
 of the Federal and American Samoa governments in meeting these needs.
SEC. 302. INSULAR GOVERNMENT PURCHASES.
 The Governments of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
 the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Virgin Islands are
 authorized to make purchases through the General Services Administration.
SEC. 303. FREELY ASSOCIATED STATE CARRIER.
 (a) In furtherance of the objectives of the Compact of Free Association Act
 of 1985 (Public Law 99-239) and notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 a Freely Associated State Air Carrier shall not be precluded from providing
 transportation, between a place in the United States and a place in a state
 in free association with the United States or between two places in such a
 freely associated state, by air of persons (and their personal effects) and
 property procured, contracted for, or otherwise obtained by any executive
 department or other agency or instrumentality of the United States for its
 own account or in furtherance of the purposes or pursuant to the terms of
 any contract, agreement, or other special arrangement made or entered into
 under which payment is made by the United States or payment is made from
 funds appropriated, owned, controlled, granted, or conditionally granted,
 or utilized by or otherwise established for the account of the United
 States, or shall be furnished to or for the account of any foreign nation,
 or any international agency, or other organization of whatever nationality,
 without provisions for reimbursement.
 (b) The term `Freely Associated State Air Carrier' shall apply exclusively
 to a carrier referred to in Article IX(5)(b) of the Federal Programs and
 Services Agreement concluded pursuant to Article II of Title Two and Section
 232 of the Compact of Free Association.
SEC. 304. MARSHALL ISLANDS FOOD ASSISTANCE.
 Section 103(h)(2) of the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985 (48
 U.S.C. 1681 note) is amended by striking out `five' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `ten'.
SEC. 305. NORTHERN MARIANAS COLLEGE.
 Section 9(a) of Public Law 99-396 is amended by striking out the period at
 the end and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `and in subsection (b),
 by striking out `and Micronesia' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Micronesia, and the Northern Mariana Islands' and by striking out
 `and to Micronesia' and inserting in lieu thereof `, Micronesia, and to
 the Northern Mariana Islands'.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.