 
--H.R.6180--
H.R.6180
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Telecommunications Authorization Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION
PART A--ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `National Telecommunications and Information
  Administration Organization Act'.
SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS; FINDINGS; POLICY.
  (a) DEFINITIONS- In this title, the following definitions apply:
  (1) The term `NTIA' means the National Telecommunications and Information
  Administration.
  (2) The term `Assistant Secretary' means the Assistant Secretary for
  Communications and Information.
  (3) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce.
  (4) The term `Commission' means the Federal Communications Commission.
  (5) The term `Corporation' means the Communications Satellite Corporation
  authorized in title III of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (47
  U.S.C. 731 et seq.).
  (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
  (1) Telecommunications and information are vital to the public welfare,
  national security, and competitiveness of the United States.
  (2) Rapid technological advances being made in the telecommunications and
  information fields make it imperative that the United States maintain
  effective national and international policies and programs capable of
  taking advantage of continued advancements.
  (3) Telecommunications and information policies and recommendations
  advancing the strategic interests and the international competitiveness
  of the United States are essential aspects of the Nation's involvement in
  international commerce.
  (4) There is a critical need for competent and effective telecommunications
  and information research and analysis and national and international
  policy development, advice, and advocacy by the executive branch of the
  Federal Government.
  (5) As one of the largest users of the Nation's telecommunications facilities
  and resources, the Federal Government must manage its radio spectrum use
  and other internal communications operations in the most efficient and
  effective manner possible.
  (6) It is in the national interest to codify the authority of the
  National Telecommunications and Information Administration, an agency
  in the Department of Commerce, as the executive branch agency principally
  responsible for advising the President on telecommunications and information
  policies, and for carrying out the related functions it currently performs,
  as reflected in Executive Order 12046.
  (c) POLICY- The NTIA shall seek to advance the following policies:
  (1) Promoting the benefits of technological development in the United
  States for all users of telecommunications and information facilities.
  (2) Fostering national safety and security, economic prosperity, and the
  delivery of critical social services through telecommunications.
  (3) Facilitating and contributing to the full development of competition,
  efficiency, and the free flow of commerce in domestic and international
  telecommunications markets.
  (4) Fostering full and efficient use of telecommunications resources,
  including effective use of the radio spectrum by the Federal Government,
  in a manner which encourages the most beneficial uses thereof in the
  public interest.
  (5) Furthering scientific knowledge about telecommunications and information.
SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT; ASSIGNED FUNCTIONS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT-
  (1) ADMINISTRATION- There shall be within the Department of Commerce
  an administration to be known as the National Telecommunications and
  Information Administration.
  (2) HEAD OF ADMINISTRATION- The head of the NTIA shall be an Assistant
  Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, who shall be
  appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
  (b) ASSIGNED FUNCTIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 105(d), the Secretary shall assign to
  the Assistant Secretary and the NTIA responsibility for the performance
  of the Secretary's communications and information functions.
  (2) COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION FUNCTIONS- Subject to section 105(d),
  the functions to be assigned by the Secretary under paragraph (1) include
  (but are not limited to) the following functions transferred to the
  Secretary by Reorganization Plan Number 1 of 1977 and Executive Order 12046:
  (A) The authority delegated by the President to the Secretary to assign
  frequencies to radio stations or classes of radio stations belonging to and
  operated by the United States, including the authority to amend, modify,
  or revoke such assignments, but not including the authority to make final
  disposition of appeals from frequency assignments.
  (B) The authority to authorize a foreign government to construct and operate
  a radio station at the seat of Government of the United States, but only
  upon recommendation of the Secretary of State and after consultation with
  the Attorney General and the Chairman of the Commission.
  (C) Functions relating to the communications satellite system, including
  authority vested in the President by section 201(a) of the Communications
  Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 721(a)) and delegated to the Secretary
  under Executive Order 12046, to--
  (i) aid in the planning and development of the commercial communications
  satellite system and the execution of a national program for the operation
  of such a system;
  (ii) conduct a continuous review of all phases of the development and
  operation of such system, including the activities of the Corporation;
  (iii) coordinate, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
  activities of governmental agencies with responsibilities in the field
  of telecommunications, so as to ensure that there is full and effective
  compliance at all times with the policies set forth in the Communications
  Satellite Act of 1962;
  (iv) make recommendations to the President and others as appropriate,
  with respect to steps necessary to ensure the availability and appropriate
  utilization of the communications satellite system for general governmental
  purposes in consonance with section 201(a)(6) of the Communications
  Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 721(a)(6));
  (v) help attain coordinated and efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum
  and the technical compatibility of the communications satellite system
  with existing communications facilities both in the United States and abroad;
  (vi) assist in the preparation of Presidential action documents for
  consideration by the President as may be appropriate under section
  201(a) of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 721(a)),
  make necessary recommendations to the President in connection therewith,
  and keep the President informed with respect to the carrying out of the
  Communications Satellite Act of 1962; and
  (vii) serve as the chief point of liaison between the President and the
  Corporation.
  (D) The authority to serve as the President's principal adviser on
  telecommunications policies pertaining to the Nation's economic and
  technological advancement and to the regulation of the telecommunications
  industry.
  (E) The authority to advise the Director of the Office of Management and
  Budget on the development of policies relating to the procurement and
  management of Federal telecommunications systems.
  (F) The authority to conduct studies and evaluations concerning
  telecommunications research and development and concerning the
  initiation, improvement, expansion, testing, operation, and use of Federal
  telecommunications systems and advising agencies of the results of such
  studies and evaluations.
  (G) Functions which involve--
  (i) developing and setting forth, in coordination with the Secretary of State
  and other interested agencies, plans, policies, and programs which relate
  to international telecommunications issues, conferences, and negotiations;
  (ii) coordinating economic, technical, operational, and related preparations
  for United States participation in international telecommunications
  conferences and negotiations; and
  (iii) providing advice and assistance to the Secretary of State on
  international telecommunications policies to strengthen the position and
  serve the best interests of the United States in support of the Secretary
  of State's responsibility for the conduct of foreign affairs.
  (H) The authority to provide for the coordination of the telecommunications
  activities of the executive branch and assist in the formulation of
  policies and standards for those activities, including (but not limited
  to) considerations of interoperability, privacy, security, spectrum use,
  and emergency readiness.
  (I) The authority to develop and set forth telecommunications policies
  pertaining to the Nation's economic and technological advancement and to
  the regulation of the telecommunications industry.
  (J) The responsibility to ensure that the views of the executive branch on
  telecommunications matters are effectively presented to the Commission and,
  in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
  to the Congress.
  (K) The authority to establish policies concerning spectrum assignments
  and use by radio stations belonging to and operated by the United States.
  (L) Functions which involve--
  (i) developing, in cooperation with the Commission, a comprehensive
  long-range plan for improved management of all electromagnetic spectrum
  resources;
  (ii) performing analysis, engineering, and administrative functions,
  including the maintenance of necessary files and data bases, as necessary for
  the performance of assigned functions for the management of electromagnetic
  spectrum resources;
  (iii) conducting research and analysis of electromagnetic propagation, radio
  systems characteristics, and operating techniques affecting the utilization
  of the electromagnetic spectrum in coordination with specialized, related
  research and analysis performed by other Federal agencies in their areas
  of responsibility; and
  (iv) conducting research and analysis in the general field of
  telecommunications sciences in support of assigned functions and in support
  of other Government agencies.
  (M) The authority to conduct studies and make recommendations concerning
  the impact of the convergence of computer and communications technology.
  (N) The authority to coordinate Federal telecommunications assistance to
  State and local governments.
  (O) The authority to conduct and coordinate economic and technical analyses
  of telecommunications policies, activities, and opportunities in support
  of assigned functions.
  (P) The authority to contract for studies and reports relating to any
  aspect of assigned functions.
  (Q) The authority to participate, as appropriate, in evaluating the
  capability of telecommunications resources, in recommending remedial actions,
  and in developing policy options.
  (R) The authority to participate with the National Security Council and
  the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy as they carry
  out their responsibilities under sections 4-1, 4-2, and 4-3 of Executive
  Order 12046, with respect to emergency functions, the national communication
  system, and telecommunications planning functions.
  (S) The authority to establish coordinating committees pursuant to section
  10 of Executive Order 11556.
  (T) The authority to establish, as permitted by law, such interagency
  committees and working groups composed of representatives of interested
  agencies and consulting with such departments and agencies as may be
  necessary for the effective performance of assigned functions.
  (3) ADDITIONAL COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION FUNCTIONS- In addition to
  the functions described in paragraph (2), the Secretary under paragraph (1)--
  (A) may assign to the NTIA the performance of functions under section 504(a)
  of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 753(a)); and
  (B) shall assign to the NTIA the administration of the Public
  Telecommunications Facilities Program under sections 390 through 393
  of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 390-393), and the National
  Endowment for Children's Educational Television under section 394 of the
  Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 394).
SEC. 104. SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.
  (a) REVISION OF REGULATIONS- Within 180 days after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce and the NTIA shall amend
  the Department of Commerce spectrum management document entitled `Manual
  of Regulations and Procedures for Federal Radio Frequency Management'
  to improve Federal spectrum management activities and shall publish in
  the Federal Register any changes in the regulations in such document.
  (b) REQUIREMENTS FOR REVISIONS- The amendments required by subsection
  (a) shall--
  (1) provide for a period at the beginning of each meeting of the
  Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee to be open to the public to
  make presentations and receive advice, and provide the public with other
  meaningful opportunities to make presentations and receive advice;
  (2) include provisions that will require (A) publication in the Federal
  Register of major policy proposals that are not classified and that involve
  spectrum management, and (B) adequate opportunity for public review and
  comment on those proposals;
  (3) include provisions that will require publication in the Federal Register
  of major policy decisions that are not classified and that involve spectrum
  management;
  (4) include provisions that will require that nonclassified spectrum
  management information be made available to the public, including access
  to electronic databases; and
  (5) establish procedures that provide for the prompt and impartial
  consideration of requests for access to Government spectrum by the public,
  which procedures shall include provisions that will require the disclosure
  of the status and ultimate disposition of any such request.
  (c) CERTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- Not later than 180 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall certify to Congress
  that the Secretary has complied with this section.
  (d) RADIO SERVICES-
  (1) ASSIGNMENTS FOR RADIO SERVICES- In assigning frequencies for mobile
  radio services and other radio services, the Secretary of Commerce shall
  promote efficient and cost-effective use of the spectrum to the maximum
  extent feasible.
  (2) AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD ASSIGNMENTS- The Secretary of Commerce shall
  have the authority to withhold or refuse to assign frequencies for mobile
  radio service or other radio service in order to further the goal of making
  efficient and cost-effective use of the spectrum.
  (3) SPECTRUM PLAN- By October 1, 1993, the Secretary of Commerce shall adopt
  and commence implementation of a plan for Federal agencies with existing
  mobile radio systems to use more spectrum-efficient technologies that are
  at least as spectrum-efficient and cost-effective as readily available
  commercial mobile radio systems. The plan shall include a time schedule
  for implementation.
  (4) REPORT TO CONGRESS- By October 1, 1993, the Secretary of Commerce
  shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
  of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
  Representatives a report summarizing the plan adopted under paragraph (3),
  including the implementation schedule for the plan.
SEC. 105. GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
  (a) INTERAGENCY FUNCTIONS-
  (1) AGENCY CONSULTATION- Federal agencies shall consult with the Assistant
  Secretary and the NTIA to ensure that the conduct of telecommunications
  activities by such agencies is consistent with the policies developed
  under section 103(b)(2)(K).
  (2) REPORT TO PRESIDENT- The Secretary shall timely submit to the President
  each year the report (including evaluations and recommendations) provided
  for in section 404(a) of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 (47
  U.S.C. 744(a)).
  (3) COORDINATION WITH SECRETARY OF STATE- The Secretary shall coordinate
  with the Secretary of State the performance of the functions described in
  section 103(b)(2)(C). The Corporation and concerned executive agencies
  shall provide the Secretary with such assistance, documents, and other
  cooperation as will enable the Secretary to carry out those functions.
  (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEES AND INFORMAL CONSULTATIONS WITH INDUSTRY- To
  the extent the Assistant Secretary deems it necessary to continue the
  Interdepartmental Radio Advisory Committee, such Committee shall serve as an
  advisory committee to the Assistant Secretary and the NTIA. As permitted by
  law, the Assistant Secretary may establish one or more telecommunications
  or information advisory committees (or both) composed of experts in the
  telecommunications and/or information areas outside the Government. The
  NTIA may also informally consult with industry as appropriate to carry
  out the most effective performance of its functions.
  (c) GENERAL PROVISIONS-
  (1) REGULATIONS- The Secretary and NTIA shall issue such regulations as
  may be necessary to carry out the functions assigned under this title.
  (2) SUPPORT AND ASSISTANCE FROM OTHER AGENCIES- All executive agencies
  are authorized and directed to cooperate with the NTIA and to furnish it
  with such information, support, and assistance, not inconsistent with law,
  as it may require in the performance of its functions.
  (3) EFFECT ON VESTED FUNCTIONS- Nothing in this title reassigns any function
  that is, on the date of enactment of this Act, vested by law or executive
  order in the Commission, or the Department of State, or any officer thereof.
  (d) REORGANIZATION-
  (1) AUTHORITY TO REORGANIZE- Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary
  may reassign to another unit of the Department of Commerce a function
  (or portion thereof) required to be assigned to the NTIA by section 103(b).
  (2) LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY- The Secretary may not make any reassignment
  of a function (or portion thereof) required to be assigned to the NTIA by
  section 103(b) unless the Secretary submits to the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy
  and Commerce of the House of Representatives a statement describing the
  proposed reassignment and containing an explanation of the reasons for the
  reassignment. No reassignment of any such function (or portion thereof)
  shall be effective until 90 legislative days after the Secretary submits
  that statement to such Committees. For purposes of this paragraph, the term
  `legislative days' includes only days on which both Houses of Congress
  are in session.
  (e) LIMITATION ON SOLICITATIONS- Notwithstanding section 1 of the Act
  of October 2, 1964 (15 U.S.C. 1522), neither the Secretary, the Assistant
  Secretary, nor any officer or employee of the NTIA shall solicit any gift or
  bequest of property, both real and personal, from any entity for the purpose
  of furthering the authorized functions of the NTIA if such solicitation would
  create a conflict of interest or an appearance of a conflict of interest.
Part B--Special and Temporary Provisions
SEC. 131. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ADMINISTRATION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated for the administration of the NTIA
  $17,600,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $17,900,000 for fiscal year 1993,
  and such sums as may be necessary for increases resulting from adjustments
  in salary, pay, retirement, other employee benefits required by law,
  and other nondiscretionary costs.
SEC. 132. NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR CHILDREN'S EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION.
  Section 394(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 394(h))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `1991 and' and inserting in lieu thereof `1991,'; and
  (2) by inserting `, $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and $6,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1994' immediately after `1992'.
SEC. 133. PEACESAT PROGRAM.
  (a) FINDINGS- Section 2(a) of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize
  appropriations for activities of the National Telecommunications and
  Information Administration for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991', approved
  November 15, 1990 (Public Law 101-555; 104 Stat. 2758), is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2) by striking `the Soviet Union and';
  (2) in paragraph (8)--
  (A) by striking `since 1988, significant progress has been' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `in fiscal years 1988 and 1989, significant progress was'; and
  (B) by striking `negotiating to acquire' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `acquiring'; and
  (3) by striking all after paragraph (8) and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following new paragraphs:
  `(9) because these activities exhausted the funds previously appropriated
  for the PEACESAT program, Congress authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000
  for fiscal year 1990 and such sums as necessary for fiscal year 1991 for
  use by the Secretary of Commerce in the negotiation for and acquisition of
  satellite capacity and equipment under subsection (c)(1) of this section
  and the management and operation of satellite communications services
  under subsection (c)(2) of this section;
  `(10) while no funds were appropriated for fiscal year 1990 because of
  the availability of carry-over funds, Congress appropriated $1,000,000
  for fiscal year 1991 for the ongoing maintenance and operation of the
  GOES-3 satellite, for the administration of the PEACESAT program, for
  the acquisition and installation of earth stations and the training of
  engineers to operate the Earth stations, and for the study of a long-term
  solution to the satellite needs of the PEACESAT program;
  `(11) with these funds, the PEACESAT program has been reestablished, over
  20 new Earth terminals have been installed (some at the expense of the
  individual user groups), and the use of the PEACESAT network is expanding;
  `(12) while the PEACESAT program has now been reestablished, additional
  funding continues to be necessary for the ongoing administrative and
  operational expenses of the PEACESAT program and especially for the
  acquisition of satellite capacity after 1994;
  `(13) the importance of the PEACESAT program to the educational and cultural
  communications in the Pacific Ocean region makes it imperative that the
  Secretary of Commerce and the PEACESAT users explore every available
  option for long-term satellite capacity, including the possibility of
  using foreign-owned satellites or engaging in joint ventures with foreign
  entities to satisfy these long-term needs for transmission capacity; and
  `(14) whether or not a domestic or foreign-owned satellite is used for
  transmission, it is essential to the achievement of United States policy
  goals that the headquarters, management, and operation of the PEACESAT
  program be located and conducted in the United States.'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION- The first sentence of section 2(d) of such Act of November
  15, 1990 (104 Stat. 2758), is amended by striking all through `fiscal year
  1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `There are authorized to be appropriated
  $400,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $1,500,000 for fiscal year 1993'.
SEC. 134. COMMUNICATIONS FOR RURAL HEALTH PROVIDERS.
  (a) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this section to improve the ability of
  rural health providers to use communications to obtain health information
  and to consult with others concerning the delivery of patient care. Such
  enhanced communications ability may assist in--
  (1) improving and extending the training of rural health professionals; and
  (2) improving the continuity of patient care in rural areas.
  (b) ADVISORY PANEL- The Secretary of Commerce, in conjunction with the
  Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall establish an advisory
  panel (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Panel') to develop
  recommendations for the improvement of rural health care through the
  collection of information needed by providers and the improvement in the
  use of communications to disseminate such information.
  (c) COMPOSITION OF PANEL- The Panel shall be composed of individuals from
  organizations with rural constituencies and practitioners from health
  care disciplines, representatives of the National Library of Medicine,
  and representatives of different health professions schools, including
  nurse practitioners.
  (d) SELECTION OF CONSULTANTS- The Panel may select consultants to provide
  advice to the Panel regarding the types of information that rural health
  care practitioners need, the procedures to gather and disseminate such
  information, and the types of communications equipment and training needed
  by rural health care practitioners to obtain access to such information.
  (e) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the Panel is established
  under subsection (b), the Secretary of Commerce shall prepare and submit,
  to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee
  on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy
  and Commerce of the House of Representatives, a report summarizing the
  recommendations made by the Panel under subsection (b).
  (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  to the Secretary of Commerce to carry out this section $1,000,000 to remain
  available until expended.
SEC. 135. REPORT ON THE ROLE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS IN HATE CRIMES.
  (a) REQUIREMENT OF REPORT- Within 240 days after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the NTIA, with the assistance of the Commission, the Department of
  Justice, and the United States Commission on Civil Rights, shall prepare a
  report on the role of telecommunications in crimes of hate and violent acts
  against ethnic, religious, and racial minorities and shall submit such report
  to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives
  and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
  (b) SCOPE OF REPORT- The report required by subsection (a) shall--
  (1) analyze information on the use of telecommunications, including broadcast
  television and radio, cable television, public access television, computer
  bulletin boards, and other electronic media, to advocate and encourage
  violent acts and the commission of crimes of hate, as described in the
  Hate Crimes Statistics Act (28 U.S.C. 534), against ethnic, religious,
  and racial minorities.
  (2) include any recommendations deemed appropriate and necessary by the NTIA.
TITLE II--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
SEC. 201. TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM.
  Section 4(g)(2)(D) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 154(g)(2)(D))
  is amended by striking `1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1994'.
SEC. 202. HAWAII MONITORING STATION.
  Section 9(a) of the Federal Communications Commission Authorization Act of
  1988 (Public Law 100-594; 102 Stat. 3024) is amended by striking `1989, 1990,
  1991, and 1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994'.
SEC. 203. CLARIFICATION OF COMMISSION REFUND AUTHORITY.
  Section 204(a)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 204(a)(1))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `an increased charge' and inserting in lieu thereof `a
  revised charge';
  (2) by striking `or increased' and inserting in lieu thereof `or revised';
  (3) by striking `increased charges' and inserting in lieu thereof `revised
  charges';
  (4) by striking `charge increased, or sought to be increased' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `new or revised charge, or a proposed new or revised
  charge'; and
  (5) by striking `increased charge' and inserting in lieu thereof `new or
  revised charge'.
SEC. 204. ELECTRONIC FILING OF APPLICATIONS.
  (a) WAIVER OF FREQUENCY OR SPECTRUM CLAIM- Sections 304 of the Communications
  Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 304) is amended by striking `signed a waiver of'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `waived'.
  (b) SIGNING OF LICENSE APPLICATIONS- Section 308(b) of the Communications
  Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 308(b)) is amended by inserting `in any manner or
  form, including by electronic means, as the Commission may prescribe by
  regulation' immediately before the period at the end.
  (c) SIGNING OF CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPLICATIONS- Section 319(a) of the
  Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 319(a)) is amended by inserting
  `in any manner or form, including by electronic means, as the Commission
  may prescribe by regulation' immediately before the period at the end.
SEC. 205. LICENSED OPERATORS.
  Section 318 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 318) is amended--
  (1) by striking `(3) stations engaged in broadcasting other than those
  engaged primarily in the function of rebroadcasting the signals of broadcast
  stations)'; and
  (2) by striking `(4)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(3)'.
SEC. 206. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR FORFEITURE PROCEEDINGS.
  Section 503(b)(6) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 503(b)(6))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `so long as such violation occurred within 3 years prior
  to the date of issuance of such required notice'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `For purposes of this paragraph,
  `date of commencement of the current term of such license' means the date
  of commencement of the last term of license for which the licensee has
  been granted a license by the Commission. A separate license term shall
  not be deemed to have commenced as a result of continuing a license in
  effect under section 307(c) pending decision on an application for renewal
  of the license.'.
SEC. 207. TELEPHONE OPERATOR SERVICES.
  Section 226(d)(4)(A) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
  U.S.C. 226(d)(4)(A)) is amended by inserting `and aggregators' immediately
  after `operator services'.
SEC. 208. GIFT AND BEQUEST AUTHORITY.
  Section 4(g) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 154(g)) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in furtherance of
  its functions the Commission is authorized to accept, hold, administer,
  and use unconditional gifts, donations, and bequests of real, personal,
  and other property (including voluntary and uncompensated services, as
  authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code).
  `(B) The Commission, for purposes of providing radio club and
  military-recreational call signs, may utilize the voluntary, uncompensated,
  and unreimbursed services of amateur radio organizations authorized by
  the Commission that have tax-exempt status under section 501(c)(3) of the
  Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
  `(C) For the purpose of Federal law on income taxes, estate taxes, and gift
  taxes, property or services accepted under the authority of subparagraph
  (A) shall be deemed to be a gift, bequest, or devise to the United States.
  `(D) The Commission shall promulgate regulations to carry out the provisions
  of this paragraph. Such regulations shall include provisions to preclude the
  acceptance of any gift, bequest, or donation that would create a conflict
  of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest.'.
SEC. 209. CHANGES TO SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
  (a) FEES FOR LOW-EARTH ORBIT SATELLITE SYSTEMS- The Schedule of Charges
  under section 8(g) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 158(g))
  is amended by adding at the end of the matter under the heading `Common
  Carrier Services' the following:
`22. Low-Earth Orbit Satellite Systems
a. Application for Authority to Construct (per system of technology identical
satellites)
6,000.00
b. Application for Authority to Launch and Operate (per system of
technologically identical satellites)
210,000.00
c. Assignment or Transfer (per request)
6,000.00
d. Modification (per request)
15,000.00
e. Special Temporary Authority or Waiver of Prior Construction Authorization
(per request)
1,500.00
f. Amendment of Application (per request)
3,000.00
g. Extension of Construction Permit/Launch Authorization (per request)
1,500.00'.
  (b) FEE FOR INSPECTION OF GREAT LAKES VESSELS- The matter under the heading
  `MISCELLANEOUS CHARGES' in the Schedule of Charges for section 8(g) of
  the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 158(g)) is amended by striking
  `360.00' in item 3.c. (relating to the inspection of vessels under the
  Great Lakes Agreement) and inserting in lieu thereof `75.00'.
SEC. 210. TOWER SAFETY ACCOUNTABILITY.
  (a) LIABILITY EXTENDED TO TOWER OWNERS- Section 303(q) of the Communications
  Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 303(q)) is amended by inserting `, and the tower
  owner in any case in which the owner is not the permittee or licensee,'
  immediately after `permittee or licensee'.
  (b) LIABILITY FOR FORFEITURE- Section 503(b)(5) of the Communications Act
  of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 503(b)(5)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `system operator or' and inserting in lieu thereof `system
  operator,'; and
  (2) by inserting `, or in the case of violations of section 303(q), if the
  person involved is a nonlicensee tower owner who has previously received
  notice of the obligations imposed by section 303(q) from the Commission
  or the permittee or licensee who uses that tower' immediately after
  `section 307(e)'.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 211. REVIEW OF LICENSE TRANSFER.
  (a) REQUIREMENT FOR HEARING- The Federal Communications Commission shall
  not approve any assignment or transfer of control of a license held by
  any corporation identified in subsection (b) without first holding a full
  hearing on the record, with notice and opportunity for comment.
  (b) APPLICABILITY- Subsection (a) applies to any corporation holding a
  television broadcast license, the transfer of which was approved by the
  Federal Communications Commission on November 14, 1985, and which is a
  corporation owned or controlled directly or indirectly by a corporation
  organized pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
  et seq.).
  (c) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Federal Communications Commission shall
  submit a report to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
  of the Senate concerning the proposed transfer 30 days prior to authorizing
  any such transfer. The report required by this subsection shall include a
  review of the consistency of such transfer with the Commission's minority
  ownership policies.
  (d) WAIVER- The requirements of subsections (a) and (c) shall not apply in
  any case in which the Native Regional corporation identified in subsection
  (b) requests in writing that this section be waived by the Federal
  Communications Commission.
SEC. 212. COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT FROM OLDER AMERICANS.
  (a) AUTHORITY FOR GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- Section 6(a) of the
  Federal Communications Commission Authorization Act of 1988 (47 U.S.C. 154
  note) is amended--
  (1) by striking `1988, 1989, 1990, and 1991' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `1992 and 1993'; and
  (2) by inserting `designated by the Secretary of Labor under title V of
  the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3056 et seq.)' immediately after
  `private nonprofit organizations'.
  (b) CERTIFICATION- Section 6(b) of the Federal Communications Commission
  Authorization Act of 1988 (47 U.S.C. 154 note) is amended--
  (1) by adding `or' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (2) by striking paragraph (3); and
  (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
SEC. 213. TELEPHONE RATES FOR MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES DEPLOYED ABROAD.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Communications Commission shall make efforts
  to reduce telephone rates for Armed Forces personnel in the following
  countries: Germany, Japan, Korea, Saudi Arabia, Great Britain, Italy,
  Philippines, Panama, Spain, Turkey, Iceland, the Netherlands, Greece,
  Cuba, Belgium, Portugal, Bermuda, Diego Garcia, Egypt, and Honduras.
  (b) FACTORS TO CONSIDER- In making the efforts described in subsection (a),
  the Federal Communications Commission, in coordination with the Department
  of Defense, Department of State, and the National Telecommunications and
  Information Administration shall consider the cost to military personnel
  and their families of placing telephone calls by--
  (1) evaluating and analyzing the costs to Armed Forces personnel of such
  telephone calls to and from American military bases abroad;
  (2) evaluate methods of reducing the rates imposed on such calls;
  (3) determine the extent to which it is feasible for the Federal
  Communications Commission to encourage the carriers to adopt flexible billing
  procedures and policies for members of the Armed Forces and their families
  for telephone calls to and from the countries listed in subsection (a); and
  (4) advise executive branch agencies of methods for the United States
  to persuade foreign governments to reduce the surcharges that are often
  placed on such telephone calls.
SEC. 214. AM RADIO IMPROVEMENT STANDARD.
  The Federal Communications Commission shall--
  (1) within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, initiate a
  rulemaking to adopt a single AM radio stereophonic transmitting equipment
  standard that specifies the composition of the transmitted stereophonic
  signal; and
  (2) within one year after such date of enactment, adopt such standard.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.