 
--H.R.3435--
H.R.3435
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide funding for the resolution of failed savings associations and
working capital for the Resolution Trust Corporation, to restructure the
Oversight Board and the Resolution Trust Corporation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing,
 Restructuring, and Improvement Act of 1991'.
TITLE I--RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION REFINANCING
SEC. 101. THRIFT RESOLUTION FUNDING PROVISIONS.
 Section 21A(i) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(i))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) ADDITIONAL INTERIM FUNDING- In addition to amounts provided under
 paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the Corporation
 such sums as may be necessary not to exceed $25 billion to carry out the
 purposes of this section until April 1, 1992.'.
SEC. 102. APPOINTMENT BY DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION.
 Section 11(c)(6)(B) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
 U.S.C. 1821(c)(6)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(B) RECEIVER- Whenever the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision
 appoints a receiver under the provisions of section 5(d)(2)(C) of the Home
 Owners' Loan Act for the purpose of liquidation or winding up any savings
 association's affairs--
 `(i) before October 1, 1993, the Resolution Trust Corporation shall be
 appointed;
 `(ii) after September 30, 1993, the Resolution Trust Corporation shall be
 appointed if the Resolution Trust Corporation had been placed in control
 of the depository institution at any time on or before such date; and
 `(iii) after September 30, 1993, the Corporation shall be appointed unless the
 Resolution Trust Corporation is required to be appointed under clause (ii).'.
SEC. 103. EXTENSION OF RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION DUTY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 21A(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(3)(A)(ii)(II)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(ii) for which a conservator or receiver is appointed after December 31,
 1988, and before October 1, 1993 (including any institution described in
 paragraph (6)).'.
 (b) CONTINUATION OF RTC RECEIVERSHIP OR CONSERVATORSHIP- Section 21A(b)(6)
 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(6)) is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(6) CONTINUATION OF RTC RECEIVERSHIP OR CONSERVATORSHIP- If the Corporation
 is appointed as conservator or receiver for any insured depository
 institution described in paragraph (3)(A) before October 1, 1993, and a
 conservator or receiver is appointed for such institution on or after such
 date, the Corporation may be appointed as conservator or receiver for such
 institution on or after October 1, 1993.'.
SEC. 104. TERMINATION OF FICO BORROWING AUTHORITY.
 Section 21(e)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441(e)(2))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) TERMINATION OF BORROWING AUTHORITY- No obligation of the Financing
 Corporation shall be issued after the date of enactment of the Resolution
 Trust Corporation Thrift Depositor Protection Refinance Act of 1991.'.
SEC. 105. REQUIREMENT TO PAY RTC WORKING CAPITAL DEBT BEFORE TRANSFERRING
FUNDS TO REFCORP.
 Section 21A(o)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(o)(2))
 is amended by inserting after `Thereafter' the following: `, if there are
 no liabilities of the Corporation outstanding,'.
SEC. 106. RTC REPORTS ON ASSET SALES, LOANS SECURED BY ASSETS, BUDGETS,
AND OTHER MATTERS.
 (a) QUARTERLY REPORTS- Section 21A(k)(7) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1441a(k)(7)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(7) QUARTERLY REPORTS- Not later than May 31, August 31, November 30,
 and the last day of February of each year, the Corporation shall submit a
 report to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House
 of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
 of the Senate containing the following information for the quarter ending
 on the last day of the month ending before the month in which such report
 is required to be submitted:
 `(A) ASSET SALES- The report shall contain the following information with
 respect to assets of institutions described in subsection (b)(3)(A) which
 were disposed of by the Corporation during the quarter covered by the report:
 `(i) The total amount of the actual sales of assets during the quarter.
 `(ii) The value of the assets as determined on the basis of the amount at
 which each such asset was accounted for on the books of the institution.
 `(iii) The fair market value of the assets as estimated by the Corporation
 for purposes of securing amounts borrowed from the Federal Financing Bank
 by the Corporation.
 `(iv) The net recovery on asset sales during the quarter.
 `(v) A subtotal of the value of the assets disposed of during the quarter
 in each of the following categories:
 `(I) Cash and securities.
 `(II) Mortgage loans for 1- to 4-family dwellings.
 `(III) Construction and land loans.
 `(IV) Other mortgage loans.
 `(V) Consumer loans.
 `(VI) Commercial loans.
 `(VII) Real estate owned assets.
 `(VIII) Other assets.
 `(B) AUCTION SALES- The report shall contain information regarding auction
 sales of RTC assets, including the following information:
 `(i) The date and location of each auction sale during the quarter.
 `(ii) The total value of the sales of assets sold during an auction during
 the quarter.
 `(iii) The total value of assets sold at each auction, as determined on
 the basis of the amount at which each such asset was accounted for on the
 books of the institution.
 `(iv) The total fair market value of assets sold at each auction, as
 estimated by the Corporation.
 `(v) The total actual selling price of assets sold during each auction held
 during the quarter.
 `(vi) The net recovery or loss on assets sold during an auction during the
 quarter, by category listed in subclauses (I) through (VII) of clause (vii).
 `(vii) A subtotal of the value of the assets sold during an auction during
 the quarter in each of the following categories:
 `(I) Cash and securities.
 `(II) Mortgage loans for 1- to 4-family dwellings.
 `(III) Construction and land loans.
 `(IV) Other mortgage loans.
 `(V) Consumer loans.
 `(VI) Commercial loans.
 `(VII) Real estate owned assets.
 `(VIII) Other assets.
 `(C) FEDERAL FINANCING BANK LOAN STATUS- The report shall contain the
 following information with respect to loans from the Federal Financing Bank
 to the Corporation:
 `(i) The total amount of loans outstanding at the beginning of the quarter.
 `(ii) The total amount of loans originated during the quarter.
 `(iii) The total amount of loans repaid during the quarter.
 `(iv) The total amount of loans outstanding at the end of the quarter.
 `(D) SELLER FINANCING- The report shall contain information regarding the
 Corporation's use of seller financing to encourage the sales of assets
 during the quarter, including the following:
 `(i) A total of the amount of funds used for seller financing purposes
 during the quarter.
 `(ii) The number of applications received by the Corporation which requested
 seller financing.
 `(iii) A breakdown of the type of assets sold, according to the categories
 listed in subclauses (I) through (VIII) of subparagraph (B)(vii).
 `(iv) Projections of the total amount of seller financing which will be
 needed during the succeeding 2 quarters.'.
 (b) SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON NATIONAL AND REGIONAL ADVISORY BOARDS- Section
 21A(k)(4)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(k)(4)(B))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of clause (iii);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of clause (iv) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by inserting after clause (iv) the following new clause:
 `(v) descriptions of the operations and activities of the national and
 regional advisory boards established under subsection (d) and financial
 statements detailing the expenses of such boards.'.
 (c) RTC AND OVERSIGHT BOARD BUDGET REPORTS- Section 21A(k) of the Federal
 Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(k)) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new paragraph:
 `(10) Budget reports-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Before the end of each calendar quarter, the Oversight
 Board and the Corporation shall submit a report to the Committee on Banking,
 Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee
 on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate containing the complete
 annual budget, as approved by the Oversight Board.
 `(B) ACTIVITIES RELATING TO PHASING OUT RTC OPERATIONS- Beginning with the
 report due in the 1st quarter of 1994, the report shall include information
 on the Corporation's activities to phase down its operations and reduce
 the number of employees and the amount of office space and other overhead
 as the Corporation completes its duties under this section and approaches
 termination.'.
 (d) EMPLOYEE REPORTS- Section 21A(k) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(k)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (10) (as added by
 subsection (c) of this section) the following new paragraph:
 `(11) EMPLOYEE REPORTS- The Corporation shall submit semiannual reports
 to the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
 of the Senate containing the following information:
 `(A) The total number of employees of the Oversight Board and the total number
 of individuals performing services directly on behalf of the Corporation.
 `(B) The total number of individuals performing services for the Corporation
 as an employee of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other
 agency, including the Government Accounting Office and the number from each
 such agency.
 `(C) The total number of individuals employed in each job classification
 and employment status, including employment on a temporary basis or for an
 agreed upon period of time.'.
 (e) Supplemental Unaudited Financial Statements-
 (1) INTERIM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS- Section 21A(k)(5) of the Federal Home
 Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(k)(5)) is amended by inserting at the end
 the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) SUPPLEMENTAL UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS- In addition to the annual
 report required under paragraph (4), the Oversight Board and the Corporation
 shall submit to the Congress, not later than September 30 of each calendar
 year, an unaudited financial statement for the 6-month period ending on
 June 30 of such year.'.
 (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by this subsection shall apply with
 respect to annual reports required to be submitted after the end of the
 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE II--RESTRUCTURING AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION
SEC. 201. STAFF OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION; CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.
 Section 21A(b)(9) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(9))
 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (B), by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
 `(i) FDIC- The Corporation shall use employees (selected by the Corporation)
 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation shall provide such personnel to the Corporation
 for its use. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation need not provide to the Corporation any employee of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Corporation who was employed by the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation on the date of enactment of the Resolution Trust
 Corporation Thrift Depositor Protection Refinance Act of 1991  and who had not
 theretofore been provided to the Corporation by the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation. In addition to persons otherwise employed by the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall employ,
 and shall provide to the Corporation, such persons as the Corporation may
 request from time to time.  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation employees
 provided to the Corporation shall be subject to the direction and control
 of the Corporation and any of them may be returned to the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation at any time by the Corporation in the discretion of the
 Corporation. The Corporation shall reimburse the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation for the actual costs incurred in providing such employees. Any
 permanent employee of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation who was
 performing services on behalf of the Corporation immediately prior to the
 date of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Thrift Depositor
 Protection Refinance Act of 1991  shall continue to be provided to the
 Corporation after that date unless the Corporation determines the services
 of any such employee to be unnecessary, in which case such employee shall
 be returned to a similar position performing services on behalf of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  In any ensuing reduction-in-force or
 reorganization within the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, any such
 employee shall compete with the same rights as any other Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation employee.  The Corporation may use administrative
 services of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and, if it does so,
 shall reimburse the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for the actual
 costs of providing such services. Any employee or officer in the executive
 service of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation who was performing
 services on behalf of the Corporation at level E-4 or above immediately
 prior to the date of enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Thrift
 Depositor Protection Refinance Act of 1991 shall continue to be assigned to
 perform substantially similar services on behalf of the Corporation after
 such date unless the Corporation--
 `(I) determines that the services of any such employees are unnecessary, or
 `(II) reassigns or substantially alters the responsibilities or duties of
 any such employees.
If an action described in subclause (I) or (II) occurs, any such employee
with at least 20 years of service, as defined by chapter 83 or chapter 84 of
title 5, United States Code, shall be entitled to an annuity under section
8336(d) or section 8414(b)(1) of title 5, United States Code, notwithstanding
the fact that such employee has not attained the age of 50 years or has
declined another position with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
and the annuity of such employee shall not be reduced because of the age of
such employee. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation shall reimburse the
appropriate retirement insurance fund for any increased costs it incurs as
a result of the annuities authorized pursuant to this clause.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER- There is established the office of chief
 executive officer of the Corporation. The chief executive officer of the
 Corporation shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice
 and consent of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the President.'.
SEC. 202. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TREASURY PAYMENTS TO FUND- Section 11(a)(6)(E) of the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(6)(E)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `1992' and inserting `1993'; and
 (2) by striking `1999' and inserting `2000'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 11(a)(6)(J) of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(6)(J)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `1991' each place it appears and inserting `1992';
 (2) by striking `1992' and inserting `1993'; and
 (3) by striking `1999' and inserting `2000'.
 (c) FSLIC RESOLUTION FUND- Section 11A(a)(2)(B) of the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1821a(a)(2)(B)) is amended by striking `1991'
 and inserting `1992'.
 (d) SOURCE OF FUNDS- Section 11A(b)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1821a(b)(4)) is amended by striking `1991' and inserting `1992'.
TITLE III--REFORM OF THE RTC
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Resolution Trust Corporation Thrift Depositor
 Protection Reform Act of 1991'.
SEC. 302. THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT BOARD; AMENDMENTS TO REFERENCES
IN THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK ACT.
 (a) REDESIGNATION- The Oversight Board, as established by section 21A(a)(1)
 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(1)), is redesignated
 the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board.
 (b) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (c), the Federal Home Loan
 Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is amended by striking `Oversight Board'
 each place it appears and inserting `Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
 Board'.
 (c) EXCEPTION- Subsection (b) does not apply to section 21A(k)(7) of the
 Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(k)(7)).
SEC. 303. ACCOUNTABILITY OF THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT BOARD.
 Section 21A(a)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(2))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `be accountable for' and inserting `monitor the operations
 of'; and
 (2) after `(hereinafter referred to in this section as the `Corporation'),'
 by inserting `and shall be accountable for the duties assigned to the Thrift
 Depositor Protection Oversight Board by this Act.'.
SEC. 304. MEMBERSHIP OF THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT BOARD.
 Section 21A(a)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(3))
 is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)--
 (A) by striking `5 members' and inserting `7 members';
 (B) by striking clause (iii);
 (C) by redesignating clause (iv) as clause (vi); and
 (D) by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
 `(iii)  the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;
 `(iv) the Chairperson of the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation;
 `(v) the chief executive officer of the Corporation; and'; and
 (2) in subparagraph (E) by striking `3 members' and inserting `4 members'.
SEC. 305. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT
BOARD.
 Section 21A(a)(6) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(6))
 is amended--
 (1) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) To review overall strategies, policies, and goals established by
 the Corporation for its activities, which shall include such items as
 the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board deems likely to have
 a material effect upon the financial condition of the Corporation, the
 results of its operations, or its cash flows, and such items as the Thrift
 Depositor Protection Oversight Board deems to involve substantial issues
 of public policy.  After consultation with the Corporation, the Thrift
 Depositor Protection Oversight Board may require the modification of any
 such overall strategies, policies, and goals and their implementation.
 Overall strategies, policies, and goals shall include such items as--
 `(i) overall strategies, policies, and goals for case resolutions, the
 management and disposition of assets, the use of private contractors;
 `(ii) the use of notes, guarantees, or other obligations by the Corporation;
 `(iii) financial goals, plans, and budgets; and
 `(iv) restructuring agreements described in subsection (b)(10)(B).';
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting `financial plans, budgets, and' after
 `implementation'; and
 (3) by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:
 `(C) To review all rules, regulations, standards, principles, procedures,
 guidelines, and statements that may be adopted or announced by the
 Corporation. The provisions of this subparagraph shall not apply to internal
 administrative policies and procedures (including such matters as personnel
 practices, divisions and organization of staffing, delegations of authority,
 and practices respecting day-to-day administration of the Corporation's
 affairs) and determinations or actions described in paragraph (8) of this
 subsection:
Provided, That if the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board requires
the modification of any overall strategies, policies and goals, it shall,
within 30 days of the date at which it directs the RTC make such modification,
provide the House and Senate Banking Committees with an explanation that
identifies which ground justifies the review and giving reasons why the
modification is necessary to satisfy these grounds.'.
SEC. 306. LIMITATION OF AUTHORITY OF THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT
BOARD.
 Section 21A(a)(8)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(8)(A)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `(i) involving' and inserting `involving (i)'; and
 (2) by striking `provide general policies and procedures' and inserting
 `review overall strategies, policies, and goals established by the
 Corporation'.
SEC. 307. OPEN MEETINGS.
 Section 21A(c)(10) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(10))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `4' and inserting `6'; and
 (2) by adding a sentence at the end, to read as follows: `The Thrift Depositor
 Protection Oversight Board shall maintain a transcript of its open meetings.'.
SEC. 308. STRATEGIC PLAN.
 Section 21A(a)(14)(A) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(14)(A)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The chief executive officer of the Corporation is authorized
 to implement the strategic plan for conducting the Corporation's functions
 and activities submitted by the former Oversight Board to the Congress,
 dated December 31, 1989.'.
SEC. 309. MANAGEMENT AND DUTIES OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION.
 (a) MANAGEMENT- Section 21A(b)(1)(C) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(1)(C)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(C) MANAGEMENT BY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER- The Corporation shall be managed
 by or under the direction of its chief executive officer.'.
 (b) DUTIES- Section 21A(b)(3)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(3)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(B) To develop and establish overall strategies, policies, and goals for the
 Corporation, subject to review by the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight
 Board pursuant to subsection (a)(6)(A) of this section.'.
 (c) REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY- Section 21A(b)(10)(E) is amended by
 adding after `real and personal property,' the following: `using any
 legally available private sector methods including without limitation,
 securitization of debt or equity, limited partnerships, mortgage investment
 conduits, and real estate investment trusts,'.
SEC. 310. ABOLITION OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION.
 Section 21A(b) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)) is
 amended by striking paragraph (8) and redesignating paragraphs (9), (10),
 (11), (12), (13), and (14) as paragraphs (8), (9), (10), (11), (12), and
 (13), respectively.
SEC. 311. POWERS OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE RESOLUTION TRUST
CORPORATION; CONSULTATION.
 Section 21A(b)(8) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(9)),
 as redesignated, is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `Unless the Oversight Board  exercises
 its authority under subsection (m) of this section' and inserting `Except
 for its chief executive officer'; and
 (2) by adding, after subparagraph (C), the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) POWERS OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER- The chief executive officer may
 exercise all of the powers of the Corporation and act for and on behalf of
 the Corporation, and may delegate such authority, as deemed appropriate by
 the chief executive officer, including the power to subdelegate authority,
 to persons designated by the chief executive officer who are employees of
 the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation utilized by the Corporation or
 who provide services for the Corporation.'.
SEC. 312.  NATIONAL HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD.
 Section 21A(d) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(d))
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs (3) through
 (5), respectively;
 (2)  by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) NATIONAL HOUSING ADVISORY BOARD-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT- The Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board shall
 establish a National Housing Advisory Board to advise the Thrift Depositor
 Protection Oversight Board on policies and programs related to the provision
 of affordable housing.
 `(B) MEMBERSHIP- The National Housing Advisory Board shall consist of--
 `(i) the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; and
 `(ii) the chairpersons of any regional advisory boards established pursuant
 to paragraph (3).
 `(C) MEETINGS- The National Housing Advisory Board shall meet 4 times a
 year, or more frequently if requested by the Thrift Depositor Protection
 Oversight Board.'.
SEC. 313. RIGHTS OF EMPLOYEES UPON SUNSET.
 The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989
 is amended--
 (1) in section 404(9)--
 (A) by striking `of such Corporation shall be transferred to' and inserting
 `of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation assigned to the Resolution
 Trust Corporation shall be reassigned to a position within'; and
 (B) by striking `of this subsection' and inserting `of this section'; and
 (2) in section 404(2)--
 (A) by inserting `grade,' after `status, tenure,'; and
 (B) by inserting `or, if the employee is a temporary employee, separated
 in accordance with the terms of the appointment' after `cause'.
SEC. 314. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO THE FEDERAL HOME LOAN
BANK ACT.
 Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) in paragraph (7), by striking `(b)(12)' and inserting `(b)(11)';
 (B) in paragraph (8)--
 (i) by striking `(A)'; and
 (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
 (C) in paragraph (10)--
 (i) by striking `establish and review the general policy of' and inserting
 `review overall strategies, policies, and goals established by'; and
 (ii) by striking `standards, policies, and procedures necessary to carry out'
 and inserting `matters as pertain to';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (3), by striking `and through the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation (or any replacement authorized pursuant to subsection (m))';
 (B) in paragraph (9) as redesignated--
 (i) by striking subparagraph (B) and redesignating subparagraphs (C) through
 (N) as subparagraphs (B) through (M), respectively;
 (ii) in subparagraph (M), as redesignated, by striking `on behalf of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, acting as exclusive manager'; and
 (C) in paragraph (11), as redesignated--
 (i) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) STRATEGIES, POLICIES, AND GOALS- The Corporation shall adopt the rules,
 regulations, standards, procedures, guidelines, and statements necessary
 to implement the strategic plan submitted by the former Oversight Board
 to Congress dated December 31, 1989. The Corporation may establish overall
 strategies, policies, and goals for its activities and may issue such rules,
 regulations, standards, principles, procedures, guidelines, and statements as
 the Corporation considers necessary or appropriate to carry out its duties.';
 (ii) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
 `(B) REVIEW, ETC- Such overall strategies, policies,  and goals, and
 such rules, regulations, standards, principles, procedures, guidelines,
 and statements--
 `(i) shall be provided by the Corporation to the Thrift Depositor Protection
 Oversight Board promptly or prior to publication or announcement to the
 extent practicable;
 `(ii) shall be subject to the review of the Thrift Depositor Protection
 Oversight Board as provided in subsection (a)(6)(A) (with respect  to
 overall strategies, policies, and goals); and
 `(iii) shall be promulgated pursuant to subchapter II of chapter 5, of
 title 5 United States Code.'; and
 (iii) in subparagraphs (D) and (E), by striking `Board of Directors' each
 place it appears and inserting `chief executive officer';
 (3) by striking subsections (m) and (n) and redesignating subsections (o),
 (p), (q), and (r) as subsections (m), (n), (o), and (p) respectively;
 (4) in subsection (n), as redesignated, in paragraph (5), by striking
 `Directors, officers,' and inserting  `Officers'; and
 (5) in subsection (o), as redesignated--
 (A) in paragraph (1) by striking `director,'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by striking `- ';
 (ii) by striking subparagraph (A);
 (iii) by striking the designation `(B)'; and
 (iv) by striking `on behalf of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
 acting as exclusive manager'.
SEC. 315. OTHER TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT- Section 11(1) of the Inspector General Act of
 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by striking `the Oversight Board and the
 Board of Directors of the Resolution Trust Corporation' and inserting `;
 the Chairperson of the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board and the
 chief executive officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation'.
 (b) THRIFT DEPOSITOR PROTECTION OVERSIGHT BOARD- Section 5313 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended by striking `Oversight Board, Resolution Trust
 Corporation' and inserting `Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board'.
 (c) CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER- Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code,
 is amended by adding at the end the following: `chief executive officer,
 Resolution Trust Corporation.'.
 (d) RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION FUNDING ACT OF 1991- Section 102(c)(1)
 of the Resolution Trust Corporation Funding Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 1441a
 note) is amended by striking `Chairman of the Resolution Trust Corporation'
 and inserting `chief executive officer of the Resolution Trust Corporation'.
SEC. 316.  REMOVAL AND REMAND.
 Section 21A(l)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(l)(3))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) REMOVAL AND REMAND-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Corporation, in any capacity and without bond or
 security, may remove any action, suit, or proceeding from a State court
 to the United States district court with jurisdiction over the place where
 the action, suit, or proceeding is pending, to the United States district
 court for the District of Columbia, or to the United States district court
 with jurisdiction over the principal place of business of any institution
 for which the Corporation has been appointed conservator or receiver if
 the action, suit, or proceeding is brought against the institution or the
 Corporation as conservator or receiver of such institution.  The removal
 of any such suit or proceeding shall be instituted--
 `(i) not later than 90 days after the date the Corporation is substituted
 as a party, or
 `(ii) not later than 30 days after service on the Corporation, if the
 Corporation is named as a party in any capacity and if such suit is filed
 after August 9, 1989.
 `(B) SUBSTITUTION- The Corporation shall be deemed substituted in any
 action, suit, or proceeding for a party upon the filing of a copy of the
 order appointing the Corporation as conservator or receiver for that party
 of the filing of such other pleading informing the court that the Corporation
 has been appointed conservator or receiver for such party.
 `(C) APPEAL- The Corporation may appeal any order of remand entered by a
 United States district court.'.
SEC. 317. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
 (a) Savings Provisions-
 (1) EXISTING RIGHTS, DUTIES, AND OBLIGATIONS NOT AFFECTED- This title shall
 not affect the validity of any right, duty, or obligation of the United
 States, the Corporation, the Oversight Board, or any other person, that--
 (A) arises under or pursuant to the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, or  any
 other provision of law applicable with respect to the Oversight Board; and
 (B) existed on the day before the effective date of the Resolution Trust
 Corporation Thrift Depositor Protection Reform Act of 1991.
 (2) CONTINUATION OF SUITS- No action or other proceeding commenced by or
 against the Oversight Board, with respect to any function of the Oversight
 Board, shall abate by reason of the enactment of this Act, except that
 the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board shall continue as party to
 any such action or proceeding, notwithstanding the change of name of the
 Oversight Board.
 (b) CONTINUATION OF ORDERS, RESOLUTIONS, DETERMINATIONS, AND REGULATIONS-
 All orders, resolutions, determinations, and regulations that--
 (1) have been issued, made, prescribed, or allowed to become effective
 by the Oversight Board (including orders, resolutions, determinations,
 and regulations which relate to the conduct of conservatorships and
 receiverships), or by a court of competent jurisdiction, in the performance
 of functions under the Federal Home Loan Bank Act; and
 (2) are in effect on the effective date of the Resolution Trust Corporation
 Thrift Depositor Protection Reform Act of 1991,
shall continue in effect according to the terms of such orders, resolutions,
determinations, and regulations, and shall be enforceable by or against
the Thrift Depositor Protection Oversight Board, or the Resolution Trust
Corporation, by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law,
notwithstanding the change of name of the Oversight Board.
SEC. 318. EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS TITLE.
 The effective date of the Resolution Trust Corporation Thrift Depositor
 Protection Reform Act of 1991 shall be February 1, 1992.
TITLE IV--MINORITIES, WOMEN, AND SMALL BUSINESS PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. INCREASED PARTICIPATION OF MINORITIES AND WOMEN IN CONTRACTING
PROCESS.
 Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended
 by inserting after subsection (s) (as added by section 227 of this Act)
 the following new subsection:
 `(t) REVIEW AND EVALUATION PROCEDURE FOR CONTRACTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In the review and evaluation of proposals, the Corporation
 shall provide additional incentives to minority- or women-owned businesses by
 awarding any such business an additional 10 percent of the total technical
 points and an additional 5 percent of the total cost preference points
 achievable in the technical and cost rating process applicable with respect
 to such proposals.
 `(2) CERTAIN JOINT VENTURES INCLUDED- Paragraph (1) shall apply to any
 proposal submitted by a joint venture in which a minority- or woman-owned
 business has participation of not less than 25 percent.
 `(3) AUTHORITY TO ADJUST TECHNICAL AND COST PREFERENCE POINTS- The Corporation
 may adjust the technical and cost preference points applicable in evaluating
 proposals to the extent necessary to ensure the maximum participation level
 possible for minority- or women-owned businesses.
 `(4) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection-
 `(A) MINORITY-OWNED BUSINESS- The term `minority-owned business' means
 a business--
 `(i) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more minority individuals; and
 `(ii) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to
 1 or more minority individuals.
 `(B) WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS- The term `women's business' means a business--
 `(i) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more women;
 `(ii) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to
 1 or more women; and
 `(iii) a significant percentage of senior management positions of which
 are held by women.'.
SEC. 402. OPERATION OF BRANCH FACILITIES BY MINORITIES AND WOMEN.
 (a) ACQUISITION OF BRANCH FACILITIES FROM THE RTC- Section 21A of the Federal
 Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended by inserting after subsection
 (t) (as added by section 301 of this title) the following new subsection:
 `(u) ACQUISITION OF BRANCH FACILITIES IN MINORITY NEIGHBORHOODS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of any savings association for which the
 Corporation has been appointed conservator or receiver, the Corporation
 may make available any branch of such association which is located in any
 predominantly minority neighborhood to any minority depository institution
 or women's depository institution on the following terms:
 `(A) The branch may be made available on a rent-free lease basis for not
 less than 5 years.
 `(B) Of all expenses incurred in maintaining the operation of the facilities
 in which such branch is located, the institution shall be liable only for
 the payment of applicable real property taxes, real property insurance,
 and utilities.
 `(C) The lease may provide an option to purchase the branch during the term
 of the lease.
 `(2) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
 `(A) MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `minority institution'
 means a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Act)--
 `(i) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more minority individuals; and
 `(ii) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to
 1 or more minority individuals.
 `(B) WOMEN'S DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `women's depository institution'
 means a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Act)--
 `(i) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more women;
 `(ii) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to
 1 or more women; and
 `(iii) a significant percentage of senior management positions of which
 are held by women.
 `(C) MINORITY- The term `minority' has the meaning given to such term
 by section 1204(c)(3) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
 Enforcement Act of 1989.'.
 (b) COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT CREDIT FOR DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS PROVIDING
 ASSISTANCE- The Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 2901 et
 seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 808. OPERATION OF BRANCH FACILITIES BY MINORITIES AND WOMEN.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In the case of any depository institution which donates,
 sells on favorable terms (as determined by the appropriate Federal financial
 supervisory agency), or makes available on a rent-free basis any branch of
 such institution which is located in any predominantly minority neighborhood
 to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution,
 the amount of the contribution or the amount of the loss incurred in
 connection with such activity shall be treated as meeting the credit needs
 of the institution's community for purposes of this title.
 `(b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 `(1) MINORITY DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `minority institution'
 means a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Act)--
 `(A) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more minority individuals; and
 `(B) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to 1
 or more minority individuals.
 `(2) WOMEN'S DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `women's depository institution'
 means a depository institution (as defined in section 3(c) of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Act)--
 `(A) more than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by
 1 or more women;
 `(B) more than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to 1
 or more women; and
 `(C) a significant percentage of senior management positions of which are
 held by women.
 `(3) MINORITY- The term `minority' has the meaning given to such term
 by section 1204(c)(3) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
 Enforcement Act of 1989.'.
SEC. 403. ACQUISITION OF FAILING MAJORITY ASSOCIATIONS BY MINORITY
INSTITUTIONS.
 Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended
 by inserting after subsection (u) (as added by section 302 of this title)
 the following new subsection:
 `(v) ASSISTANCE UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES FOR ACQUISITION OF MAJORITY-OWNED
 INSTITUTIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In addition to the assistance provided pursuant to the
 minority interim capital assistance program established by the Oversight
 Board by regulation pursuant to the strategic plan under subsection (a),
 the Corporation may provide assistance for minority-owned depository
 institutions and minority investors for the acquisition of any savings
 association for which the Corporation has been appointed conservator or
 receiver and which, before such appointment, was not a minority-owned
 association, if the Corporation has not received acceptable bids for the
 acquisition of such association without offering such assistance.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL ASSETS- In connection with the acquisition of any savings
 association for which the Corporation provides assistance under paragraph
 (1), the Corporation may transfer assets of other savings associations for
 which the Corporation has been appointed conservator or receiver.
 `(3) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
 `(A) MINORITY- The term `minority' has the meaning given to such term
 by section 1204(c)(3) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
 Enforcement Act of 1989.
 `(B) ACQUISITION- The term `acquisition' means any transaction in which
 a savings association is acquired (as defined in section 13(c)(8) of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Act).'.
SEC. 404. STATUTORY ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended
 by inserting after subsection (v) (as added by section 303 of this title)
 the following new subsection:
 `(w) MINORITY INTERIM CAPITAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The minority interim capital assistance program established
 by the Oversight Board by regulation pursuant to the strategic plan under
 subsection (a) is hereby established by law.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES FOR ACQUISITION OF MAJORITY-OWNED
 INSTITUTIONS- In addition to the assistance provided pursuant to the program
 established under paragraph (1), the Corporation shall provide assistance
 under such program for minority-owned depository institutions and minority
 investors for the acquisition of any savings association for which the
 Corporation has been appointed conservator or receiver and which, before
 such appointment, was not a minority-owned association, if the Corporation
 has not received acceptable bids for the acquisition of such association
 without offering such assistance.
 `(3) EXTENSION OF INTERIM FINANCING PERIOD- The period for repayment of
 capital assistance provided under the minority interim capital assistance
 program shall be not less than 2 years.
 `(4) INTEREST RATE- The rate of interest imposed by the Corporation in
 connection with any interim financing provided under the minority interim
 capital assistance program may not exceed the average cost of funds to the
 Corporation as of the time such rate is established.
 `(5) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection--
 `(A) MINORITY- The term `minority' has the meaning given to such term
 by section 1204(c)(3) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and
 Enforcement Act of 1989.
 `(B) ACQUISITION- The term `acquisition' means any transaction in which
 a savings association is acquired (as defined in section 13(c)(8) of the
 Federal Deposit Insurance Act).'.
SEC. 405. GOAL FOR PARTICIPATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS.
 Section 21A(b)(14) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(14))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(14) GOAL FOR PARTICIPATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS- The Corporation
 shall have an annual goal that presents the maximum practicable opportunity
 for small business concerns and small business concerns owned and controlled
 by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals to participate in
 the performance of contracts awarded by the Corporation.'.
TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS HOUSING PROVISIONS
SEC. 501.
 (a) Credit Enhancement To Provide Housing Opportunities for Low-Income
 Persons-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 21A(b)(10)(K) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(10)(K)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(K) To make loans and, with respect to eligible residential properties,
 develop risk sharing structures and other credit enhancements to assist
 in the provision of property ownership, rental, and cooperative housing
 opportunities for lower- and moderate-income families.'.
 (2) CREDIT ENHANCEMENT FOR CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT BONDS- Section 21A(c)(8)(B)
 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(8)(B)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `(B) CREDIT ENHANCEMENT- With respect to' and inserting
 the following:
 `(B) Credit enhancement-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- With respect to'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ii) CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT BONDS- The Corporation may provide credit
 enhancements with respect to tax-exempt bonds issued on behalf of nonprofit
 organizations pursuant to section 103, and subpart A of part IV of subchapter
 A of chapter 1, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, with respect to the
 disposition of eligible residential properties for the purposes described
 in clause (i).'.
TITLE VI--RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM
SEC. 601. INCLUSION OF ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY UNDER CONSERVATORSHIP.
 Section 21A(c)(9) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(9))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D) and inserting the following new
 subparagraphs:
 `(C) CORPORATION- The term `Corporation' means the Resolution Trust
 Corporation.
 `(D) ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROPERTY-
 `(i) BASIC DEFINITION- The term `eligible multifamily housing property'
 means a property consisting of more than 4 dwelling units--
 `(I) to which the Corporation acquires title either in its corporate capacity
 or as receiver (including its capacity as the sole owner of a subsidiary
 corporation of a depository institution under receivership, which subsidiary
 has as its principal business the ownership of real property), but not in
 its capacity as an operating conservator; and
 `(II) that has an appraised value that does not exceed the applicable dollar
 amount set forth in section 221(d)(3)(ii) of the National Housing Act for
 elevator-type structures (without regard to any increase of such amount
 for high-cost areas).
 `(ii) EXPANDED DEFINITION- Notwithstanding clause (i), to the extent or in
 such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts for additional costs
 and losses to the Corporation resulting from this clause taking effect,
 the term `eligible multifamily housing property' shall mean a property
 consisting of more than 4 dwelling units--
 `(I) to which the Corporation acquires title in its corporate capacity,
 its capacity as conservator, or its capacity as receiver (including its
 capacity as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation of a depository
 institution under conservatorship or receivership, which subsidiary has as
 its principal business the ownership of real property); and
 `(II) that has an appraised value that does not exceed the applicable dollar
 amount set forth in section 221(d)(3)(ii) of the National Housing Act for
 elevator-type structures (without regard to any increase of such amount
 for high-cost areas).'; and
 (2) by striking subparagraph (F) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY- The term `eligible single family
 property' means a 1- to 4-family residence (including a manufactured home)--
 `(I) to which the Corporation acquires title in its corporate capacity,
 its capacity as conservator, or its capacity as receiver (including its
 capacity as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation of a depository
 institution under conservatorship or receivership, which subsidiary has as
 its principal business the ownership of real property); and
 `(II) that has an appraised value that does not exceed the applicable
 dollar amount set forth in the first sentence of section 203(b)(2) of the
 National Housing Act (without regard to any increase of such amount for
 high-cost areas).'.
SEC. 602. TIME LIMITATIONS ON SALE OF ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY.
 Section 21A(c)(2)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(2)(B)), as amended by Public Law 102-139, is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking `For' and inserting `Except as
 provided in the last sentence of this subparagraph for'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `To the extent or in
 such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts for additional costs
 and losses to the Corporation resulting from this sentence taking effect,
 for purposes of this subsection the period referred to in the first and
 third sentences shall be considered to be the 180-day period following the
 date on which the Corporation first makes an eligible single family property
 available for sale.'.
SEC. 603. ACTIVE MARKETING OF ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY TO LOWER-INCOME
VETERANS.
 Section 21A(c)(2)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(2)(B)) is amended--
 (1) in clause (i) of the first sentence, by inserting `(including qualifying
 households with members who are veterans)' after `households';
 (2) in subclause (I) of clause (ii) of the first sentence, by inserting
 `(including lower-income families with members who are veterans)' after
 `lower-income families'; and
 (3) in the fourth sentence, by inserting `and to lower-income families with
 members who are veterans' before the period.
SEC. 604. PREVENTION OF SPECULATION ON ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY.
 (a) RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS-
 (1) QUALIFYING HOUSEHOLDS- Section 21A(c)(9)(K) of the Federal Home Loan
 Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(9)(K)) is amended by striking `and (ii) whose
 adjusted income' and inserting the following: `(ii) who agrees to occupy the
 property as a principal residence for at least 12 months (except as provided
 in paragraph (2)(D)); (iii) who certifies in writing that the household
 intends to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12
 months (except as provided in paragraph (2)(D)); and (iv) whose income'.
 (2) LOWER-INCOME FAMILIES- The first sentence of section 21A(c)(2)(B) of the
 Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(2)) is amended by striking
 `by such families.' and inserting the following: `by any such family who,
 except as provided in subparagraph (D), agrees to occupy the property as
 a principal residence for at least 12 months and who certifies in writing
 that the family intends to occupy the property for at least 12 months.'.
 (b) RECAPTURE OF PROFITS FROM RESALE- Section 21A(c)(2) of the Federal Home
 Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) RECAPTURE OF PROFITS FROM RESALE- Except as provided in subparagraph (D),
 if any eligible single family property sold (i) to a qualifying household,
 or (ii) to a lower-income family pursuant to subparagraph (B)(ii)(II),
 paragraph (12)(C)(i), or paragraph (13)(B), is resold by the qualifying
 household or lower-income family during the 1-year period beginning upon
 initial acquisition by the household or lower-income family, the Corporation
 shall recapture 75 percent of the amount of any proceeds from the resale
 that exceed the sum of (I) the original sale price for the acquisition
 of the property by the qualifying household or lower-income family; (II)
 the costs of any improvements to the property made after the date of the
 acquisition, and (III) any closing costs in connection with the acquisition.
 `(D) EXCEPTIONS TO RECAPTURE REQUIREMENT-
 `(i) RELOCATION- The Corporation (or its successor) may in its discretion
 waive the applicability (I) to any qualifying household of the requirement
 under subparagraph (C) and the requirements relating to residency of a
 qualifying household under paragraphs (9)(L)(ii) and (iii), and (II) to
 any lower-income family of the requirement under subparagraph (C) and the
 residency requirements under subparagraph (B)(ii)(II). The Corporation may
 grant any such a waiver only for good cause shown, including any necessary
 relocation of the qualifying household or lower-income family.
 `(ii) OTHER RECAPTURE PROVISIONS- The requirement under subparagraph
 (C) shall not apply to any eligible single family property for which,
 upon resale by the qualifying household or lower-income family during the
 1-year period beginning upon initial acquisition by the household or family,
 a portion of the sale proceeds or any subsidy provided in connection with
 the acquisition of the property by the household or family is required to be
 recaptured or repaid under any other Federal, State, or local law (including
 section 143(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) or regulation or under
 any sale agreement.'.
SEC. 605. AVOIDANCE OF DISPLACEMENT UNDER SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY DISPOSITION
PROGRAM.
 Section 21A(c)(2) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(2))
 is amended by adding after subparagraph (D) (as added by section 504(b)
 of this Act) the following new subparagraph:
 `(E) EXCEPTION TO AVOID DISPLACEMENT OF EXISTING RESIDENTS- Notwithstanding
 the first sentence of subparagraph (B), during the 180-day period following
 the date on which the Corporation makes an eligible single family property
 available for sale, the Corporation may sell the property to the household
 residing in the property, but only if (i) such household was residing in
 the property at the time notice regarding the property was provided to
 clearinghouses under subparagraph (A), (ii) such sale is necessary to avoid
 the displacement of, and unnecessary hardship to, the resident household,
 (iii) the resident household intends to occupy the property as a principal
 residence for at least 12 months, and (iv) and the resident household
 certifies in writing that the household intends to occupy the property for
 at least 12 months.'.
SEC. 606. PERIODS FOR EXPRESSION OF SERIOUS INTEREST AND RESTRICTED BIDS
FOR ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROPERTY.
 Section 21A(c)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(3))
 is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subparagraph (B), by striking the first comma
 and all that follows through `first';
 (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking `determining that a property is ready
 for sale' and inserting the following: `the expiration of the period referred
 to in subparagraph (B) for a property,'; and
 (3) in subparagraph (D), by inserting after the period at the end the
 following new sentence: `If, before the expiration of such 45-day period,
 any offer to purchase a property initially accepted by the Corporation
 is subsequently rejected or fails (for any reason), the Corporation shall
 accept another offer to purchase the property made during such period that
 complies with the terms and conditions established by the Corporation (if
 such another offer is made). The preceding sentence may not be construed to
 require a qualifying multifamily purchaser whose offer is accepted during the
 45-day period to purchase the property before the expiration of the period.'.
SEC. 607. LOWER-INCOME OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING PROPERTY.
 Section 21A(c)(3)(E) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(3)(E)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(E) LOWER-INCOME OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS-
 `(i) SINGLE PROPERTY PURCHASES- With respect to any purchase of a single
 eligible multifamily housing property by a qualifying multifamily purchaser
 under subparagraph (D)--
 `(I) not less than 35 percent of all dwelling units purchased shall be made
 available for occupancy by and maintained as affordable for lower-income and
 very low-income families during the remaining useful life of the building
 property structure in which the units are located: Provided, That
 `(II) not less than 20 percent of all dwelling units purchased shall be
 made available for occupancy shall be made available for occupancy by and
 maintained as affordable for very low-income families during the remaining
 useful life of the building or structure in which the units are located.
 `(ii) AGGREGATION REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTIPROPERTY PURCHASES- With respect to
 any purchase under subparagraph (D) by a qualifying multifamily purchaser
 involving more than one eligible multifamily housing property as a part of
 the same negotiation--
 `(I) the provisions of clause (i) shall apply in the aggregate to the
 properties so purchased; except that
 `(II) to the extent or in such amounts as are provided in appropriations
 Acts for additional costs and losses to the Corporation resulting from this
 subclause taking effect, not less than (a) 40 percent of the aggregate number
 of all dwelling units purchased shall be made available for occupancy by and
 maintained as affordable for lower-income and very low-income families during
 the remaining useful life of the building property structure in which the
 units are located, (b) 20 percent of the aggregate number of all dwelling
 units purchased shall be made available for occupancy by and maintained
 as affordable for very low-income families during the remaining useful
 life of the building property structure in which the units are located,
 and (c) not less than 10 percent of the dwelling units in each separate
 property purchased shall be made available for occupancy by and maintained
 as affordable for lower-income families during the remaining useful life
 of the property in which the units are located.
The requirements of this subparagraph shall be contained in the deed or
other recorded instrument.'.
SEC. 608. EXTENSION OF RESTRICTED OFFER PERIOD FOR ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING PROPERTY.
 Section 21A(c)(3) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(3))
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); and
 (2) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new subparagraph:
 `(G) EXTENSION OF RESTRICTED OFFER PERIODS- Notwithstanding subparagraph
 (F), the Corporation may provide notice to clearinghouses regarding,
 and offer for sale under the provisions of subparagraphs (A) through (D),
 any eligible multifamily housing property--
 `(i) in which no qualifying multifamily purchaser has expressed serious
 interest during the period referred to in subparagraph (B), or
 `(ii) for which no qualifying multifamily purchaser has made a bona fide
 offer before the expiration of the period referred to in subparagraph (D),
except that the Corporation may, in the discretion of the Corporation,
alter the duration of the periods referred to in subparagraphs (B) and (D)
in offering any property for sale under this subparagraph.'.
SEC. 609. SALE PRICE.
 Section 21A(c)(6)(A)(i) of Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(6)(A)(i)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) SALE PRICE- The Corporation shall establish a market value for
 each eligible multifamily housing property. The Corporation shall sell
 eligible multifamily housing property at the net realizable market value. The
 Corporation may agree to sell eligible multifamily housing property at a price
 below the net realizable market value to the extent necessary to facilitate
 an expedited sale of such property and enable a public agency or nonprofit
 organization to comply with the lower-income occupancy requirements applicable
 to such property under paragraph (3). The Corporation may sell eligible single
 family property or eligible condominium property to qualifying households,
 nonprofit organizations, and public agencies without regard to any minimum
 sale price.'.
SEC. 610. AUTHORITY FOR RTC TO PARTICIPATE IN MULTIFAMILY FINANCING POOLS.
 Section 21A(c)(6)(A)(ii) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(6)(A)(ii)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 sentence: `In providing financing for combinations of eligible multifamily
 housing properties under this subsection, the Corporation may hold a
 participating share, including a subordinate participation.'.
SEC. 611. CREDIT ENHANCEMENT FOR CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT BONDS.
 Section 21A(c)(8)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(8)(B)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `(B) CREDIT ENHANCEMENT- With respect to' and inserting
 the following:
 `(B) Credit enhancement-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- With respect to'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ii) CERTAIN TAX-EXEMPT BONDS- The Corporation may provide credit
 enhancements with respect to tax-exempt bonds issued on behalf of nonprofit
 organizations pursuant to section 103, and subpart A of part IV of subchapter
 A of chapter 1, of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, with respect to the
 disposition of eligible residential properties for the purposes described
 in clause (i).'.
SEC. 612. PERMANENT EFFECTIVENESS OF EXEMPTION FOR TRANSACTIONS WITH INSURED
DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS.
 Notwithstanding section 203 of the Resolution Trust Corporation Funding
 Act of 1991, the amendment made by section 201(b) of such Act shall apply
 on and after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 613. TRANSFER OF CERTAIN ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TO STATE
HOUSING AGENCIES FOR DISPOSITION.
 Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(12) TRANSFER OF CERTAIN ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES TO STATE HOUSING
 AGENCIES FOR DISPOSITION- Notwithstanding paragraphs (2), (3), (5), and (6),
 the Corporation may transfer eligible residential properties to the State
 housing finance agency or any other State housing agency for the State in
 which the property is located, or to any local housing agency in whose
 jurisdiction the property is located. Transfers of eligible residential
 properties under this paragraph may be conducted by direct sale, consignment
 sale, or any other method the Corporation considers appropriate and shall
 be subject to the following requirements:
 `(A) INDIVIDUAL OR BULK TRANSFER- The Corporation may transfer such
 properties individually or in bulk, as agreed to by the Corporation and
 the State housing finance agency or State or local housing agency.
 `(B) ACQUISITION PRICE AND DISCOUNT- The acquisition price paid by the State
 housing finance agency or State or local housing agency to the Corporation
 for properties transferred under this paragraph shall be an amount agreed
 to by the Corporation and the transferee agency.
 `(C) LOWER-INCOME USE- Any State housing finance agency or State or local
 housing agency acquiring properties under this paragraph shall offer to
 sell or transfer the properties only as follows:
 `(i) ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTIES- For eligible single family
 properties--
 `(I) to purchasers described under clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (2)(B);
 `(II) if the purchaser is a purchaser described under paragraph (2)(B)(ii)(I),
 subject to the rent limitations under paragraph (4)(A);
 `(III) subject to the requirement in the second sentence of paragraph
 (2)(B); and
 `(IV) subject to recapture by the Corporation of excess proceeds from resale
 of the properties under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (2).
 `(ii) ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROPERTIES- For eligible multifamily
 housing properties--
 `(I) to qualifying multifamily purchasers;
 `(II) subject to the lower-income occupancy requirements under paragraph
 (3)(E);
 `(III) subject to the provisions of paragraph (3)(H);
 `(IV) subject to a preference, among financially acceptable offers, to
 the offer that would reserve the highest percentage of dwelling units for
 occupancy or purchase by very low-income families and lower-income families
 and would retain such affordability for the longest term; and
 `(V) subject to the rent limitations under paragraph (4)(A).
 `(D) AFFORDABILITY- The State housing finance agency or State or local
 housing agency shall endeavor to make the properties transferred under
 this paragraph more affordable to lower-income families based upon the
 extent to which the acquisition price of a property under subparagraph (B)
 is less than the market value of the property.'.
SEC. 614. SUSPENSION OF OFFER PERIODS FOR SALES OF ELIGIBLE RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY TO NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS AND PUBLIC AGENCIES.
 Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)) is
 amended by adding after paragraph (12) (as added by section 513 of this Act)
 the following new paragraph:
 `(13) Exception for sales to nonprofit organizations and public agencies-
 `(A) SUSPENSION OF OFFER PERIODS- With respect to any eligible residential
 property, the Corporation may (in the discretion of the Corporation)
 suspend any of the requirements of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph
 (2) and subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (3), as applicable, but
 only to the extent that for the duration of the suspension the Corporation
 negotiates the sale of the property to a nonprofit organization or public
 agency. If the property is not sold pursuant to such negotiations, the
 requirements of any provisions suspended shall apply upon the termination
 of the suspension. Any time period referred to in such paragraphs shall
 toll for the duration of any suspension under this subparagraph.
 `(B) Use restrictions-
 `(i) ELIGIBLE SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY- Any eligible single family property
 sold under this paragraph shall be (I) made available for occupancy by and
 maintained as affordable for lower-income families for the remaining useful
 life of the property, or made available for purchase by such families, (II)
 subject to the rent limitations under paragraph (4)(A), (III) subject to the
 requirements relating to residency of a qualifying household under paragraph
 (9)(L) and to residency of a lower-income family under paragraph (2)(B)(ii),
 and (IV) subject to recapture by the Corporation of excess proceeds from
 resale of the property under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (2).
 `(ii) ELIGIBLE MULTIFAMILY HOUSING PROPERTY- Any eligible multifamily
 housing property sold under this paragraph shall comply with the lower-income
 occupancy requirements under paragraph (3)(E) and shall be subject to the
 rent limitations under paragraph (4)(A).'.
SEC. 615. SALE OF ELIGIBLE CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)) is amended by adding after paragraph (13) (as added by
 section 514 of this Act) the following new paragraph:
 `(14) Rules governing disposition of eligible condominium property-
 `(A) NOTICE TO CLEARINGHOUSES- Within a reasonable period of time after
 acquiring title to an eligible condominium property, the Corporation shall
 provide written notice to clearinghouses. Such notice shall contain basic
 information about the property. Each clearinghouse shall make such information
 available, upon request, to purchasers described in clauses (i) through (iv)
 of subparagraph (B). The Corporation shall allow such purchasers reasonable
 access to an eligible condominium property for purposes of inspection.
 `(B) OFFERS TO SELL- For the 180-day period following the date on which
 the Corporation makes an eligible condominium property available for sale,
 the Corporation may offer to sell the property, at the discretion of the
 Corporation, to 1 or more of the following purchasers:
 `(i) Qualifying households.
 `(ii) Nonprofit organizations.
 `(iii) Public agencies.
 `(iv) For-profit entities.
 `(C) Lower-income occupancy requirements-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in clause (ii), any nonprofit
 organization, public agency, or for-profit entity that purchases an eligible
 condominium property shall (I) make the property available for occupancy by
 and maintain it as affordable for lower-income families for the remaining
 useful life of the property, or (II) make the property available for purchase
 by any such family who, except as provided in subparagraph (E), agrees to
 occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months and who
 certifies in writing that the family intends to occupy the property for at
 least 12 months. The restriction described in subclause (I) of the preceding
 sentence shall be contained in the deed or other recorded instrument.
 `(ii) MULTIPLE-UNIT PURCHASES- If any nonprofit organization, public agency,
 or for-profit entity purchases more than 1 eligible condominium property
 as a part of the same negotiation or purchase, the Corporation may (in
 the discretion of the Corporation) waive the requirement under clause
 (i) and provide instead that not less than 35 percent of all eligible
 condominium properties purchased shall be (I) made available for occupancy
 by and maintained as affordable for lower-income families for the remaining
 useful life of the property, or (II) made available for purchase by any such
 family who, except as provided in subparagraph (E), agrees to occupy the
 property as a principal residence for at least 12 months and who certifies
 in writing that the family intends to occupy the property for at least 12
 months. The restriction described subclause (I) of the preceding sentence
 shall be contained in the deed or other recorded instrument.
 `(iii) SALE TO OTHER PURCHASERS- If, upon the expiration of the 180-day period
 referred to in subparagraph (B), no purchaser described in clauses (i) through
 (iv) of subparagraph (B) has made a bona fide offer to purchase the property,
 the Corporation may offer to sell the property to any other purchaser.
 `(D) RECAPTURE OF PROFITS FROM RESALE- Except as provided in subparagraph
 (E), if any eligible condominium property sold (i) to a qualifying household,
 or (ii) to a lower-income family pursuant to subparagraph (C)(i)(II) or
 (C)(ii)(II), is resold by the qualifying household or lower-income family
 during the 1-year period beginning upon initial acquisition by the household
 or family, the Corporation shall recapture 75 percent of the amount of
 any proceeds from the resale that exceed the sum of (I) the original sale
 price for the acquisition of the property by the qualifying household or
 lower-income family, (II) the costs of any improvements to the property
 made after the date of the acquisition, and (III) any closing costs in
 connection with the acquisition.
 `(E) EXCEPTION TO RECAPTURE REQUIREMENT- The Corporation (or its successor)
 may in its discretion waive the applicability to any qualifying household
 or lower-income family of the requirement under subparagraph (D) and the
 requirements relating to residency of a qualifying household or lower-income
 family (under paragraph (9)(L) and subparagraph (C) of this paragraph,
 respectively). The Corporation may grant any such a waiver only for good
 cause shown, including any necessary relocation of the qualifying household
 or lower-income family.
 `(F) LIMITATIONS ON MULTIPLE UNIT PURCHASES- The Corporation may not sell
 or offer to sell as part of the same negotiation or purchase any eligible
 condominium properties that are not located in the same condominium project
 (as such term is defined in section 604 of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1980). The preceding sentence may not be construed to
 require all eligible condominium properties offered or sold as part of the
 same negotiation or purchase to be located in the same structure.
 `(G) RENT LIMITATIONS- Rents charged to tenants of eligible condominium
 properties made available for occupancy by very low-income families shall
 not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family whose income
 equals 50 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by the
 Secretary, with adjustment for family size. Rents charged to tenants of
 eligible condominium properties made available for occupancy by lower-income
 families other than very low-income families shall not exceed 30 percent
 of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 65 percent of the
 median income for the area, as determined by the Secretary, with adjustment
 for family size.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 21A(c)(11)(B) of the Federal Home Loan
 Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(11)(B)) is amended by striking `specified under
 paragraphs (2) and (3)' and inserting `applicable under paragraphs (2),
 (3), (12)(C), (13)(B), and (14)(C)'.
SEC. 616. REPORTS TO CONGRESS REGARDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROGRAM.
 Section 21A(c) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)) is
 amended by adding after paragraph (14) (as added by section 515 of this Act)
 the following new paragraph:
 `(15) Reports to congress-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall submit to the Congress semiannual
 reports under this paragraph regarding the disposition of eligible residential
 properties under this subsection during the most recently concluded reporting
 period. The first report under this paragraph shall be submitted not later
 than the expiration of the 4-month period beginning upon the conclusion
 of the first reporting period under subparagraph (B). Subsequent reports
 shall be submitted not less than every 6 months after such expiration.
 `(B) REPORTING PERIODS- For purposes of this paragraph, the term `reporting
 period' means the 6-month period for which a report under this paragraph is
 made, except that the first reporting period shall be the period beginning
 on the date of the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
 and Enforcement Act of 1989 and ending on the date of the enactment of the
 Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act
 of 1991. Each successive reporting period shall begin upon the conclusion
 of the preceding reporting period.
 `(C) INFORMATION REGARDING PROPERTIES SOLD- Each report under this paragraph
 shall contain information regarding each eligible residential property sold
 by the Corporation during the applicable reporting period, as follows:
 `(i) A description of the property, the location of the property, and the
 number of dwelling units in the property.
 `(ii) The appraised value of the property.
 `(iii) The sale price of the property.
 `(iv) For eligible single family properties--
 `(I) the income and race of the purchaser of the property, if the property
 is sold to an occupying household or is sold for resale to an occupying
 household; and
 `(II) whether the property is reserved for residency by very low- or
 lower-income families, if the property is sold for use as rental property.
 `(v) For eligible multifamily housing properties, the number and percentage
 of dwelling units in the property reserved for occupancy by very low-
 and lower-income families.
 `(vi) The number of eligible single family properties sold after the
 expiration of the offer period for such properties referred to in paragraph
 (2)(B).
 `(vii) The number of eligible multifamily housing properties sold after the
 expiration of the periods for such properties referred to in subparagraphs
 (B) and (D) of paragraph (3).
 `(D) NUMBER OF PROPERTIES WITHIN WINDOWS- Each report under this paragraph
 shall contain the following information:
 `(i) The number of eligible single family properties for which the offer
 period referred to in paragraph (2)(B) had not expired before the conclusion
 of the applicable reporting period (or had not yet commenced).
 `(ii) The number of eligible multifamily housing properties for which the
 90-day period referred to in paragraph (3)(B) had not expired before the
 conclusion of the applicable reporting period (or had not yet commenced).'.
SEC. 617. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 21A(c)(9) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(9)),
 as amended by sections 501 and 504(a)(1) of this Act, is further amended--
 (1) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
 `(A) ADJUSTED INCOME AND INCOME- The terms `adjusted income' and `income'
 shall have the meaning given such terms in section 3(b) of the United States
 Housing Act of 1937.';
 (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (P) as subparagraphs (E)
 through (Q), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new subparagraph:
 `(D) ELIGIBLE CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY- The term `eligible condominium property'
 means a condominium unit, as such term is defined in section 604 of the
 Housing and Community Development Act of 1980--
 `(i) to which the Corporation acquires title in its corporate capacity,
 its capacity as conservator, or its capacity as receiver (including its
 capacity as the sole owner of a subsidiary corporation of a depository
 institution under conservatorship or receivership, which subsidiary has as
 its principal business the ownership of real property); and
 `(ii) that has an appraised value that does not exceed the applicable
 dollar amount set forth in the first sentence of section 203(b)(2) of the
 National Housing Act (without regard to any increase of such amount for
 high cost areas).'.
SEC. 618. RISK-WEIGHTING OF HOUSING LOANS FOR PURPOSES OF CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) SINGLE FAMILY HOUSING LOANS-
 (1) 50 PERCENT RISK-WEIGHTED CLASSIFICATION-
 (a) IN GENERAL- To provide consistent regulatory treatment of loans
 made for the construction of single family housing, not later than the
 expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date of this Act each
 Federal banking agency shall amend the regulations and guidelines of the
 agency establishing minimum acceptable capital levels to provide that any
 single family residence construction loan described under subparagraph (B)
 shall be considered as a loan within the 50 percent risk-weighted category.
 (B) REQUIREMENTS- Subparagraph (A) shall apply to any construction loan--
 (i) made for the construction of a residence consisting of 1 to 4 dwelling
 units;
 (ii) under which the lender has acquired from the lender originating the
 mortgage loan for purchase of the residence, before the making of the
 construction loan--
 (I) documentation demonstrating that the buyer of the residence intends
 to purchase the residence and has the ability to obtain a mortgage loan
 sufficient to purchase the residence; and
 (II) any other documentation from the mortgage lender that the appropriate
 Federal banking agency may consider appropriate to provide assurance of the
 buyer's intent to purchase the property (including written commitments and
 letters of intent);
 (iii) under which the borrower requires the buyer of the residence to make
 a nonrefundable deposit to the borrower in an amount (as determined by
 the appropriate Federal banking agency) of not less than 1 percent of the
 principal amount of mortgage loan obtained by the borrower for purchase of
 the residence, for use in defraying costs relating to any cancellation of
 the purchase contract of the buyer; and
 (iv) that meets any other underwriting characteristics that the appropriate
 Federal banking agency may establish, consistent with the purposes of the
 minimum acceptable capital requirements to maintain the safety and soundness
 of financial institutions.
 (2) 100 PERCENT RISK-WEIGHTED CLASSIFICATION- Not later than the expiration
 of the 120-day period beginning on the date of this Act each Federal banking
 agency shall amend the regulations and guidelines of the agency establishing
 minimum acceptable capital levels to provide that--
 (A) any single family residence construction loan for a residence for which
 the purchase contract is canceled shall be considered as a loan within the
 100 percent risk-weighted category; and
 (B) the lender of any single family residence construction loan shall promptly
 notify the appropriate Federal banking agency of any such cancellation.
 (b) MULTIFAMILY HOUSING LOANS-
 (1) 50 PERCENT RISK-WEIGHTED CLASSIFICATION-
 (A) IN GENERAL- To provide consistent regulatory treatment of loans made for
 the purchase of multifamily rental and homeowner properties, not later than
 the expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date of this Act each
 Federal banking agency shall amend the regulations and guidelines of the
 agency establishing minimum acceptable capital levels to provide that any
 multifamily housing loan described under subparagraph (B) and any security
 collateralized by such a loan shall be considered as a loan or security
 within the 50 percent risk-weighted category.
 (B) REQUIREMENTS- Subparagraph (A) shall apply to any loan--
 (i) secured by a first lien on a residence consisting of more than 4
 dwelling units;
 (ii) under which--
 (I) the rate of interest does not change over the term of the loan, (b)
 the principal obligation does not exceed 80 percent of the appraised value
 of the property, and (c) the ratio of annual net operating income generated
 by the property (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual
 debt service on the loan is not less than 120 percent; or
 (II) the rate of interest changes over the term of the loan, (b) the principal
 obligation does not exceed 75 percent of the appraised value of the property,
 and (c) the ratio of annual net operating income generated by the property
 (before payment of any debt service on the loan) to annual debt service on
 the loan is not less than 115 percent;
 (iii) under which--
 (I) amortization of principal and interest occurs over a period of not more
 than 30 years;
 (II) the minimum maturity for repayment of principal is not less than 7
 years; and
 (III) timely payment of all principal and interest, in accordance with the
 terms of the loan, occurs for a period of not less than 1 year; and
 (iv) that meets any other underwriting characteristics that the appropriate
 Federal banking agency may establish, consistent with the purposes of the
 minimum acceptable capital requirements to maintain the safety and soundness
 of financial institutions.
 (2) SALE PURSUANT TO PRO RATA LOSS SHARING ARRANGEMENTS- Not later than the
 expiration of the 120-day period beginning on the date of this Act, each
 Federal banking agency shall amend the regulations and guidelines of the
 agency establishing minimum acceptable capital levels to provide that any
 loan fully secured by a first lien on a multifamily housing property that
 is sold subject to a pro rata loss sharing arrangement by an institution
 subject to the jurisdiction of the agency shall be treated as sold to the
 extent that loss is incurred by the purchaser of the loan. For purposes
 of this paragraph, the term `pro rata loss sharing arrangement' means an
 agreement providing that the purchaser of a loan shares in any loss incurred
 on the loan with the selling institution on a pro rata basis.
 (3) SALE PURSUANT TO OTHER ARRANGEMENTS FOR LOSS- Not later than the
 expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the enactment
 of this Act, each Federal banking agency shall amend the regulations and
 guidelines of the agency establishing minimum acceptable capital levels
 to take into account other loss sharing arrangements, in connection with
 the sale by an institution subject to the jurisdiction of the agency of
 any loan that is fully secured by a first lien on multifamily housing
 property, for purposes of determining the extent to which such loans shall
 be treated as sold. For purposes of this paragraph, the term `other loss
 sharing arrangement' means an agreement providing that the purchaser of a
 loan shares in any loss incurred on the loan with the selling institution
 on other than a pro rata basis.
 (c) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY- For purposes of this section, the
 term `Federal banking agency' means the Board of Governors of the Federal
 Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller
 of the Currency, and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision.
SEC. 619. APPLICABILITY.
 The amendments made by this title shall not apply to any eligible residential
 property or eligible condominium property of the Resolution Trust Corporation,
 that is subject to an agreement for sale entered into by the Corporation
 before the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE VII--APPRAISAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 701. REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS.
 (a) CERTIFICATION AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS- Section 1116 of the Financial
 Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3345)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e) AUTHORITY OF THE APPRAISAL SUBCOMMITTEE- The Appraisal Subcommittee
 shall not set qualifications or experience requirements for the States in
 licensing real estate appraisers. Recommendations of the Subcommittee shall
 be nonbinding on the States.
 (b) Use of State Certified and State Licensed Appraisers-
 (1) EFFECTIVE DATE FOR USE- Section 1119(a)(1) of the Financial Institutions
 Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3348(a)(1)) is
 amended by striking `July 1, 1991' and inserting `December 31, 1992'.
 (2) EXTENSION OF EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 1119(b) of the Financial Institutions
 Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3348(b)) is amended--
 (A) in the first sentence, by striking `leading to inordinate delays'
 and inserting `, or in any geographical political subdivision of a State,
 leading to significant delays'; and
 (B) in the second sentence, by striking `inordinate' and inserting
 `significant'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.