 
--H.R.2251--
H.R.2251
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Making dire emergency supplemental appropriations from contributions of
foreign governments and/or interest for humanitarian assistance to refugees
and displaced persons in and around Iraq as a result of the recent invasion
of Kuwait and for peacekeeping activities, and for other urgent needs for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated,
 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to provide dire
 emergency supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September
 30, 1991, and for other purposes, namely:
CHAPTER I
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY
Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 In addition to the purposes for which it is otherwise available, the Persian
 Gulf Regional Defense Fund shall be available for the incremental costs
 of the Department of Defense incurred in connection with Operation Provide
 Comfort and any other humanitarian efforts for the relief of refugees and
 displaced persons in and around Iraq  as a result of the recent invasion
 of Kuwait and, upon a determination by the Secretary of Defense that such
 action is necessary, he may transfer from the Persian Gulf Regional Defense
 Fund not to exceed $320,500,000 from the amounts appropriated for Operation
 Desert Shield/Desert Storm in the Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm
 Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1991, to be used for incremental costs
 of such humanitarian relief efforts, to the following accounts in not to
 exceed the following amounts as determined by the Secretary of Defense:
Military Personnel
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for appropriations under the heading `Military
 Personnel', $2,000,000.
Operation and Maintenance
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for appropriations under the heading `Operation
 and Maintenance', $318,500,000.
Defense Cooperation Account
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For contributions only to the military relief societies, not to exceed
 $16,000,000 is appropriated from the Defense Cooperation Account, to be
 derived only from the interest payments deposited to the credit of such
 account, and not from any contributions of foreign governments in such
 account, to be available only for transfer as a contribution by the Secretary
 of Defense to the following relief societies in not to exceed the following
 amounts: Army Emergency Relief Society, $10,000,000; Navy-Marine Corps
 Relief Society, $5,000,000; Air Force Aid Society, $1,000,000: Provided,
 That contributions made as provided herein shall be treated in the same
 manner, to the same extent, and for all purposes, as contributions received
 by such societies from private individuals and organizations.
General Provisions--Chapter I
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 101. The authority provided in this chapter to transfer funds from
 the Defense Cooperation Account and the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund
 is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in any other Act
 making appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 1991:
 Provided, That any amounts so transferred shall be merged with and available
 for the same purposes and the same time period as the appropriations to
 which transferred. The costs for which transfers are provided herein
 are costs associated with Operation Desert Storm: Provided further,
 That any limitations applicable to the amounts that may be transferred to
 individual appropriations of the Department of Defense from the Fund are
 hereby increased by the amount of transfers made pursuant to this provision.
 SEC. 102. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the balance of the
 $15,000,000,000 corpus to be maintained in the Persian Gulf Regional Defense
 Fund shall be reduced by the amount of transfers from such fund made to
 support Operation Provide Comfort and other humanitarian relief efforts as
 provided in this chapter.
CHAPTER II
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Defense Cooperation Account
 For a portion of the expenses associated with Operation Desert Storm and
 the provision of emergency assistance, pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i)
 of Public Law 99-177, as amended, for refugees and displaced persons in and
 around Iraq as a result of the recent invasion of Kuwait, and for peacekeeping
 activities and for international disaster assistance in the region, there
 is appropriated from the Defense Cooperation Account, $235,500,000, to
 be derived from any contributions of foreign governments and/or interest
 payments deposited to the credit of such account, which shall be available
 only for transfer by the Secretary of Defense to `International Disaster
 Assistance', `Migration and Refugee Assistance', `United States Emergency
 Refugee and Migration Assistance', and `Contributions to International
 Peacekeeping Activities', as follows:
FUNDS APPROPRIATED TO THE PRESIDENT
Bilateral Economic Assistance
INTERNATIONAL DISASTER ASSISTANCE
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for `International Disaster Assistance', $67,000,000,
 to remain available until expended: Provided, That in addition to amounts
 otherwise available for such purposes, up to $200,000 of the funds
 appropriated under this heading may be made available for the purpose of
 paying administrative expenses of the Agency for International Development
 in connection with carrying out its functions under this heading.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Migration and Refugee Assistance
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for `Migration and Refugee Assistance', $75,000,000:
 Provided, That in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes,
 up to $250,000 of the funds appropriated under this heading may be made
 available for the administrative expenses of the Office of Refugee Programs
 of the Department of State: Provided further, That funds made available
 under this heading shall remain available until September 30, 1992.
United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for the `United States Emergency Refugee and
 Migration Assistance Fund', $68,000,000, to remain available until expended:
 Provided, That the funds made available under this heading are appropriated
 notwithstanding the provisions contained in section 2(c)(2) of the Migration
 and Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 that would limit the amount of funds
 that could be appropriated for this purpose.
International Organizations and Conferences
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTERNATIONAL PEACEKEEPING ACTIVITIES
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For an additional amount for `Contributions to international peacekeeping
 activities', $25,500,000, to remain available until September 30, 1992.
General Provisions--Chapter II
 SEC. 201. The authority provided in this chapter to transfer funds from the
 Defense Cooperation Account is in addition to any other transfer authority
 contained in any other Act making appropriations for fiscal year 1991.
 SEC. 202. Funds transferred or otherwise made available pursuant to this Act
 may be made available notwithstanding any provision of law that restricts
 assistance to particular countries.
 SEC. 203. Funds transferred pursuant to this chapter for International
 Disaster Assistance and the United States Emergency Refugee and Migration
 Assistance Fund may be used for any of the purposes for which funds
 are authorized under those accounts and may also be used to replenish
 appropriations accounts from which assistance was provided prior to the
 enactment of this Act, notwithstanding any other provision of this or any
 other Act.
 SEC. 204. Amounts obligated for fiscal year 1991 under the authority of
 section 492(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to provide international
 disaster assistance in connection with the Persian Gulf crisis shall not
 be counted against the ceiling limitation of such section.
 SEC. 205. The value of any defense articles, defense services, and military
 education and training authorized as of April 20, 1991, to be drawn down
 by the President under the authority of section 506(a)(2) of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 shall not be counted against the ceiling limitation
 of such section.
 SEC. 206. Funds made available under this chapter may be made available
 notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15(a) of the
 State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.
 SEC. 207. None of the funds appropriated by the Foreign Operations, Export
 Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law
 101-513), under the heading `Economic Support Fund', that were allocated
 for Pakistan may be made available for assistance for another country or
 purpose unless notification is provided in accordance with the regular
 notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.
CHAPTER III
NATURAL DISASTERS
Office of Management and Budget
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
 The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, using up to $35,000
 of funds previously appropriated under this head in Public Law 101-509,
 shall prepare a report on unfunded costs of dire emergencies existing
 because of floods, droughts, tornadoes, unemployment, and other disasters
 in the United States and submit the report to the appropriate committees
 of Congress within ten days of the date of enactment of this Act, pending
 receipt of a budget request.
 The Director of the Office of Management and Budget, using up to $15,000
 of funds previously appropriated under this head in Public Law 101-509,
 shall prepare a report on unfunded costs, including food assistance, of
 international disaster emergencies existing because of floods, droughts,
 tornadoes, and other disasters and prepare a report on the threats to
 oil supply, human health and the environment, that the Kuwaiti oil fires
 might pose and submit the reports to the appropriate committees of Congress
 within ten days of the date of enactment of this Act, pending receipt of
 a budget request.
CHAPTER IV
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
International Trade Administration
OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
 Of the funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 101-515 and Public
 Law 102-27, $159,325,000 shall be available to carry out export promotion
 programs notwithstanding the provisions of section 201 of Public law 99-64.
THE JUDICIARY
Courts of Appeals, District Courts and Other Judicial Services
Salaries and Expenses
(RESCISSION)
 Of the funds appropriated under this heading in Public Law 101-515,
 $8,262,000 is hereby rescinded.
Defender Services
 For an additional amount for `Defender Services', $8,000,000 to remain
 available until expended.
CHAPTER V
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 SEC. 501. No part of any appropriation contained in this Act shall remain
 available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly
 so provided herein.
 SEC. 502. Funds made available in this Act, being incremental costs of
 `Operation Desert Storm' or offset, similar to items in the Dire Emergency
 Supplemental Appropriations Act, Public Law 102-27, and the Operation Desert
 Shield/Desert Storm Supplemental Appropriations Act, Public Law 102-28,
 are off budget.
 SEC. 503. During the current fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense may accept
 burdensharing contributions in the form of money from the Republic of Korea
 for the costs of local national employees of the Department of Defense to be
 credited to Department of Defense operation and maintenance appropriations
 available for the salaries and benefits of such Korean national employees
 to be merged with and to be available for the same purposes and time period
 as those appropriations to which credited: Provided, That not later than
 October 31, 1991, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a report on the
 contributions accepted by the Secretary under this provision.
 This Act may be cited as the `Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
 From Contributions of Foreign Governments And/Or Interest for Humanitarian
 Assistance to Refugees and Displaced Persons In and Around Iraq  as a Result
 of the Recent Invasion of Kuwait and for Peacekeeping Activities and Other
 Urgent Needs Act of 1991'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.