 
--H.R.6179--
H.R.6179
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. WILD AND SCENIC RIVER STUDY.
  (a) STUDY- Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a))
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(  ) DELAWARE RIVER, PENNSYLVANIA AND NEW JERSEY- (A) The approximately
  3.6-mile segment from the Erie Lackawanna Railroad Bridge to the southern
  tip of Dildine Island.
  `(B) The approximately 2-mile segment from the southern tip of Mack Island
  to the northern border of the town of Belvidere, New Jersey.
  `(C) The approximately 12.5-mile segment from the southern border of the
  town of Belvidere, New Jersey, to the northern border of the city of Easton,
  Pennsylvania, excluding river mile 196.0 to 193.8.
  `(D) The approximately 9.5-mile segment from the southern border of the
  town of Phillipsburg, New Jersey, to a point just north of the Gilbert
  Generating Station.
  `(E) The approximately 14.2-mile segment from a point just south of the
  Gilbert Generating Station to a point just north of the Point Pleasant
  Pumping Station.
  `(F) The approximately 6.5-mile segment from a point just south of the
  Point Pleasant Pumping Station to the north side of the Route 202 bridge.
  `(G) The approximately 6-mile segment from the southern boundary of the town
  of New Hope, Pennsylvania, to the town of Washington Crossing, Pennsylvania.
  `(H) The Cook's Creek tributary.
  `(I) The Tinicum Creek tributary.
  `(J) The Tohickon Creek tributary.'.
  (b) ELIGIBILITY STUDY AND REPORT- Section 5(b) of the Wild and Scenic
  Rivers Act, as amended, (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new paragraph:
  `(11)(A) The study of the Delaware River segments and tributaries designated
  for potential addition to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System
  pursuant to section 5(a)( ) of this Act shall be completed and the report
  submitted to Congress not later than one year after the date of enactment
  of this paragraph.
  `(B) The Secretary shall--
  `(i) prepare the study in cooperation and consultation with appropriate
  Federal, State, regional, and local agencies, including but not limited
  to, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources, the New Jersey
  Department of Environmental Protection and Energy, the Delaware and Lehigh
  Navigation Canal National Heritage Corridor Commission, and the Delaware
  and Raritan Canal Commission; and
  `(ii) consider previous plans for the protection of affected cultural,
  recreational, and natural resources (including water supply and water
  quality) and existing State and local regulations, so as to avoid unnecessary
  duplication.
  `(C) Pursuant to section 11(b)(1) of this Act, the Secretary shall undertake
  a river conservation plan for the segment of the Delaware River from the
  northern city limits of Trenton, New Jersey, to the Southern boundary of
  Bucks County, Pennsylvania.'.
  (c) EXISTING FACILITIES AND POSSIBLE ADDITIONS THERETO- The study of the
  river segments and tributaries designated for potential addition to the
  National Wild and Scenic Rivers System under subsection (a) shall not be
  used in any proceeding or otherwise to preclude, prevent, restrict, or
  interfere with the completion, continued or changed operation, maintenance,
  repair, construction, reconstruction, replacement, or modification of the
  Gilbert Generating Station and associated facilities, the Point Pleasant
  Pumping Station and associated facilities, the Portland Generating Station
  and associated facilities, the Martins Creek Steam Electric Station
  and associated facilities, or the Merrill Creek Reservoir Project and
  associated facilities, or with the licensing, permitting, relicensing, or
  repermitting of such projects, stations, and associated facilities. Such
  study designation shall not preclude or interfere with the licensing,
  permitting, construction, operation, maintenance, repair, relicensing,
  or repermitting of any additions to any such facilities, so long as such
  additions are outside the segments of the Delaware River designated for
  study by subsection (a) and impounded backwater from any such addition
  does not intrude on any such segment, and so long as the values present
  in such segments on the date of enactment of this Act are not unreasonably
  diminished thereby.
  (d) TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION FACILITIES- The study of the river segments
  and tributaries designated for potential addition to the National Wild and
  Scenic Rivers System under subsection (a) of this Act shall not be used in
  any proceeding or otherwise to preclude, prevent, restrict, or interfere
  with the present or future access to or operation, maintenance, repair,
  construction, reconstruction, replacement, or modification of electric or
  gas transmission or distribution lines across or adjacent to such segments,
  or with the licensing, permitting, relicensing, or repermitting of such
  lines across such segments: Provided, however, That during the study of
  such segments, each new electric or gas transmission or distribution line
  across any such segment shall be located no further than  1/2  mile from
  the center line of any transmission or distribution line across any such
  segment in existence on the date of enactment of this Act.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.