 
--H.R.2038--
H.R.2038
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1992 for intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the
Intelligence Community Staff, and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
and Disability System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Intelligence Authorization Act, Fiscal
 Year 1992'.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1992 for
 the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the
 following elements of the United States Government:
 (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
 (2) The Department of Defense.
 (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
 (4) The National Security Agency.
 (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department
 of the Air Force.
 (6) The Department of State.
 (7) The Department of the Treasury.
 (8) The Department of Energy.
 (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
 (10) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
 (a) SPECIFICATION OF AMOUNTS AND PERSONNEL CEILINGS- The amounts authorized
 to be appropriated under section 101, and the authorized personnel
 ceilings as of September 30, 1992, for the conduct of the intelligence and
 intelligence-related activities of the elements listed in such section,
 are those specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared
 by the committee of conference to accompany H.R. 2038 of the One Hundred
 Second Congress.
 (b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS- The Schedule of
 Authorizations described in subsection (a) shall be made available to the
 Committees on Appropriations of the Senate and House of Representatives and
 to the President. The President shall provide for suitable distribution
 of the Schedule, or of appropriate portions of the Schedule, within the
 executive branch.
SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.
 (a) AUTHORITY FOR ADJUSTMENTS- The Director of Central Intelligence
 may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the numbers
 authorized for fiscal year 1992 under sections 102 and 202 of this Act
 when he determines that such action is necessary for the performance of
 important intelligence functions, except that such number may not, for any
 element of the Intelligence Community, exceed 2 percent of the number of
 civilian personnel authorized under those sections for that element.
 (b) NOTICE TO INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES- The Director of Central Intelligence
 shall promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of
 the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of
 the Senate whenever he exercises the authority granted by subsection (a).
TITLE II--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community Staff
 for fiscal year 1992 the sum of $31,219,000, of which $6,566,000 shall be
 available for the Security Evaluation Office and $2,000,000 shall be available
 for the Foreign Language Committee of the Director of Central Intelligence.
SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF PERSONNEL END-STRENGTH.
 (a) AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL LEVEL- The Intelligence Community Staff is authorized
 218 full-time personnel as of September 30, 1992, including 50 full-time
 personnel who are authorized to serve in the Security Evaluation Office and
 3 full-time personnel who are authorized to serve on the Foreign Language
 Committee of the Director of Central Intelligence. Such personnel of the
 Intelligence Community Staff may be permanent employees of the Intelligence
 Community Staff or personnel detailed from other elements of the United
 States Government.
 (b) REPRESENTATION OF INTELLIGENCE ELEMENTS- During fiscal year 1992,
 personnel of the Intelligence Community Staff shall be selected so as
 to provide appropriate representation from elements of the United States
 Government engaged in intelligence and intelligence-related activities.
 (c) REIMBURSEMENT- During fiscal year 1992, any officer or employee of
 the United States or a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to the
 Intelligence Community Staff from another element of the United States
 Government shall be detailed on a reimbursable basis, except that any such
 officer, employee, or member may be detailed on a nonreimbursable basis for
 a period of less than one year for the performance of temporary functions
 as required by the Director of Central Intelligence.
SEC. 203. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY STAFF ADMINISTERED IN SAME MANNER AS CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
 During fiscal year 1992, activities and personnel of the Intelligence
 Community Staff shall be subject to the provisions of the National Security
 Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) and the Central Intelligence Agency
 Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.) in the same manner as activities and
 personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency.
TITLE III--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) AUTHORIZATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated for the Central
 Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $164,100,000 for fiscal
 year 1992.
 (b) REFERENCES TO CIARDS ACT- Except as otherwise expressly provided, any
 amendment or repeal in this title shall be treated as being stated as an
 amendment or repeal to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of
 1964 for Certain Employees (50 U.S.C. 403 note).
SEC. 302. SURVIVOR BENEFITS FOR CHILDREN WHO HAVE A SURVIVING PARENT.
 (a) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES FOR OTHER THAN FORMER SPOUSES- (1) Subsection
 (c) of section 221 is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `wife or husband and by a child
 or children, in addition to the annuity payable to the surviving wife or
 husband, there shall be paid to or on behalf of each' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `spouse or former spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent of
 a surviving child of the annuitant, there shall be paid to or on behalf of
 each such surviving'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking out `wife or husband but by a child or
 children, each surviving child shall be paid' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `spouse or former spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving
 child of the annuitant, there shall be paid to or on behalf of each such
 surviving child'.
 (2) Subsection (d) of such section is redesignated as paragraph (3) of
 subsection (c) and as so redesignated is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) On the death of a surviving spouse or former spouse or termination of
 the annuity of a child, the annuities of any remaining children shall be
 recomputed and paid as though the spouse, former spouse, or child had not
 survived the annuitant. If the annuity of a surviving child who has not
 been receiving an annuity is initiated or resumed, the annuities of any
 other children shall be recomputed and paid from that date as though the
 annuities of all currently eligible children were then being initiated.'.
 (3) Subsection (c) of such section is further amended by adding at the end
 the following new paragraph:
 `(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `former spouse' includes
 any former wife or husband of the annuitant, regardless of the length of
 marriage or the amount of creditable service completed by the annuitant.'.
 (4) Subsection (e) of such section is redesignated as subsection (d) and
 is amended by striking out `under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section,
 or (c) or (d)' and inserting in lieu thereof `under paragraph (1) or (2)
 of subsection (c) of this section, or subsection (c) or (d)'.
 (b) DEATH IN SERVICE- (1) Subsection (c) of section 232 is amended--
 (A) by striking out `wife or a husband and a child or children, each' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `spouse or former spouse who is the natural or
 adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, each such';
 (B) by striking out `section 221(c)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `subsections (c)(1) and (c)(3) of section 221'; and
 (C) by striking out the last sentence.
 (2) Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
 (A) by striking out `wife or husband, but by a child or children, each'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `spouse or a former spouse who is the natural
 or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant, that';
 (B) by striking out `section 221(c)(2)' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `subsections (c)(2) and (c)(3) of section 221'; and
 (C) by striking out the last sentence.
 (3) Such section is further amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(e) For purposes of subsections (c) and (d), the term `former spouse'
 includes any former wife or husband of the participant, regardless of the
 length of marriage or the amount of creditable service completed by the
 participant.'.
 (c) CONFORMING CROSS-REFERENCE AMENDMENTS- (1) Sections 204(b)(3), 232(c),
 and 232(d) are amended by striking out `section 221(e)' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `section 221(d)'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect on
 the first day of the fourth month beginning after the date of the enactment
 of this Act and shall apply with respect to annuities payable to children
 by reason of the death of a participant or annuitant on or after that date.
SEC. 303. 18-MONTH PERIOD TO ELECT A SURVIVOR ANNUITY.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PERIOD AFTER RETIREMENT TO MAKE ELECTION- Section 221
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating the second subsection (p) as subsection (r); and
 (2) by inserting before that subsection the following new subsection:
 `(q)(1)(A) A participant or former participant--
 `(i) who, at the time of retirement, is married, and
 `(ii) who elects at that time (in accordance with subsection (b)) to waive
 a survivor annuity for the spouse,
may, during the 18-month period beginning on the date of the retirement of
such participant, elect to have a reduction under subsection (b) made in the
annuity of the participant (or in such portion thereof as the participant
may designate) in order to provide a survivor annuity for that spouse of
the participant.
 `(B) A participant or former participant--
 `(i) who, at the time of retirement, is married, and
 `(ii) who, at that time designates (in accordance with subsection (b)) that
 a portion of the annuity of such participant is to be used as the base for
 a survivor annuity,
may, during the 18-month period beginning on the date of the retirement of
such participant, elect to have a greater portion of the annuity of such
participant so used.
 `(2)(A) An election under subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) shall
 not be considered effective unless the amount specified in subparagraph (B)
 is deposited into the fund before the expiration of the applicable 18-month
 period under paragraph (1).
 `(B) The amount to be deposited with respect to an election under this
 subsection is an amount equal to the sum of--
 `(i) the additional cost to the system which is associated with providing
 a survivor annuity under subsection (b) and results from such election,
 taking into account (I) the difference (for the period between the date on
 which the annuity of the participant or former participant commences and
 the date of the election) between the amount paid to such participant or
 former participant under this title and the amount which would have been
 paid if such election had been made at the time the participant or former
 participant applied for the annuity, and (II) the costs associated with
 providing for the later election; and
 `(ii) interest on the additional cost determined under clause (i), computed
 using the interest rate specified or determined under section 8334(e) of
 title 5, United States Code, for the calendar year in which the amount to
 be deposited is determined.
 `(3) An election by a participant or former participant under this subsection
 voids prospectively any election previously made in the case of such
 participant under subsection (b).
 `(4) An annuity which is reduced in connection with an election under this
 subsection shall be reduced by the same percentage reductions as were in
 effect at the time of the retirement of the participant or former participant
 whose annuity is so reduced.
 `(5) Rights and obligations resulting from the election of a reduced annuity
 under this subsection shall be the same as the rights and obligations which
 would have resulted had the participant involved elected such annuity at
 the time of retiring.
 `(6) The Director shall, on an annual basis, inform each participant or
 former participant who is eligible to make an election under this subsection
 of the right to make such election and the procedures and deadlines applicable
 to such election.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take
 effect on the first day of the fourth month beginning after the date of
 the enactment of this Act.
 (2)(A) The amendment made by subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect
 to participants and former participants regardless of whether they retire
 before, on, or after the effective date specified in paragraph (1), except
 that paragraph (1)(A) of section 221(q) of the Central Intelligence Agency
 Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees (as added by subsection(a)(2))
 shall apply only with respect to participants who retire on or after that
 effective date.
 (B) In applying the provisions of paragraph (1)(B) of section 221(q) of the
 Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees
 (as added by subsection (a)(2)) to a participant or former participant who
 retires before the effective date specified in paragraph (1)--
 (i) the 18-month period referred to in that paragraph shall be considered
 to begin on the effective date specified in paragraph (1); and
 (ii) the amount referred to in paragraph (2) of that section (as added by
 subsection (a)(2)) shall be computed without regard to the provisions of
 subparagraph (B)(ii) of such paragraph (relating to interest).
SEC. 304. WAIVER OF THIRTY-MONTH APPLICATION REQUIREMENT.
 Section 224(c)(2)(A) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `require within thirty months after the effective date of
 this section.' and inserting in lieu thereof `require. Any such application
 and documentation shall be submitted not later than April 1, 1989.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `The Director may waive
 the deadline in the preceding sentence for submission of an application
 and supporting documentation under this subparagraph in any case in which
 the Director determines that the circumstances warrant such a waiver.'.
SEC. 305. DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY FOR PAYMENT OF EXPENSES OF DISABILITY
EXAMS FROM CIARDS FUND.
 Section 231(b)(1) is amended by striking out `shall' in the sixth sentence
 and inserting in lieu thereof `may'.
SEC. 306. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO PROVISIONS RELATING TO PREVIOUS SPOUSES
OF CIARDS PARTICIPANTS.
 (a) SURVIVOR ANNUITIES FOR PREVIOUS SPOUSES- Subsection (a) of section 226
 is amended--
 (1) by striking out `whose retirement or disability or FECA (chapter 81 of
 title 5, United States Code) annuity commences after the effective date of
 this section';
 (2) by striking out `applicable to spouses' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `applicable to former spouses (as defined in section 8331(23) of title 5,
 United States Code)'; and
 (3) by striking out `married for at least nine months with service creditable
 under section 8332 of title 5, United States Code' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `as prescribed by the Civil Service Retirement Spouse Equity Act
 of 1984'.
 (b) DATE REFERENCE CHANGES- Such section is further amended--
 (1) by striking out `divorced after the effective date of this section'
 in subsection (a) and inserting in lieu thereof `divorced after September
 29, 1988,';
 (2) by striking out `within two years after the effective date of this
 section' in subsection (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `not later than
 September 29, 1990'; and
 (3) by striking out subsection (d).
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATES- (1) The amendment made by subsection (a)(1) shall be
 deemed to have become effective as of September 30, 1990, and shall apply
 in the case of annuitants whose divorce occurs on or after that date.
 (2) The amendments made by subsections (a)(2) and (a)(3) shall be deemed
 to have become effective as of September 29, 1988.
SEC. 307. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO CIARDS MANDATORY RETIREMENT PROVISION.
 Section 235(b) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking out `grade GS-18 or above' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `level 4 or above of the Senior Intelligence
 Service pay schedule'; and
 (2) in the second sentence, by striking out `less than grade GS-18'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `less than that of level 4 of the Senior
 Intelligence Service pay schedule'.
SEC. 308. EXCLUSION OF CIA FOREIGN NATIONAL EMPLOYEES FROM PARTICIPATION IN
THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN.
 (a) PARTICIPATION IN THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN- Section 8351 of title 5,
 United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
 `(d) A foreign national employee of the Central Intelligence Agency whose
 services are performed outside the United States shall be ineligible to
 make an election under this section.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take
 effect as of January 1, 1987.
 (2) Any refund which becomes payable as a result of the effective date
 specified in paragraph (1) shall, to the extent that that refund involves
 an individual's contributions to the Thrift Savings Fund (established under
 section 8437 of title 5, United States Code), be adjusted to reflect any
 earnings attributable thereto.
SEC. 309. CLARIFICATION OF QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE PROVISIONS UNDER FEDERAL
EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
 (a) SPECIAL RULES FOR FORMER SPOUSES- Section 304 is amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) in the case of an employee who
 has elected to become subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
 the provisions of sections 224 and 225 shall apply to such employee's former
 spouse (as defined in section 204(b)(4)) who would otherwise be eligible
 for benefits under such sections 224 and 225 but for the employee having
 elected to become subject to such chapter.
 `(2) For the purpose of computing such former spouse's benefits under
 sections 224 and 225--
 `(A) the retirement benefits shall be equal to 50 percent of the employee's
 annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83 of such title, or under title
 II of this Act (computed in accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal
 Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act),
 multiplied by the proportion that the number of days of marriage during the
 period of the employee's creditable service before the effective date of
 the election to transfer bears to the employee's total creditable service
 before such effective date; and
 `(B) the survivor benefits shall be equal to 55 percent of the full amount
 of the employee's annuity computed in accordance with section 302(a) of the
 Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act.
 `(3) Benefits provided pursuant to this subsection shall be payable from
 the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (h) of section 304 of the Central Intelligence
 Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees, as added by subsection
 (a), shall be deemed to have become effective as of December 2, 1987.
SEC. 310. ELIMINATION OF OVERSEAS SERVICE REQUIREMENT FOR FORMER SPOUSES.
 (a) ELIGIBILITY- Section 204(b)(4) is amended by striking out `at least five
 years' and all that follows through the period and inserting in lieu thereof
 `at least five years of which were spent by the participant outside the
 United States during the participant's service as an employee of the Agency
 or otherwise in a position the duties of which qualified the participant
 for designation by the Director as a participant pursuant to section 203.'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply only
 to a former husband or wife of a participant or former participant whose
 divorce from the participant or former participant becomes final after the
 date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY LAW.
 Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, and
 other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional or
 supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation
 or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 402. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
 The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed to
 constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which is
 not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
SEC. 403. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONTRACTING.
 The Director of Central Intelligence shall direct that elements of the
 Intelligence Community, whenever compatible with the national security
 interests of the United States and consistent with the operational and
 security concerns related to the conduct of intelligence activities,
 and where fiscally sound, shall award contracts in a manner that would
 maximize the procurement of products in the United States. For purposes of
 this provision, the term `Intelligence Community' has the same meaning as
 set forth in paragraph 3.4(f) of Executive Order 12333, dated December 4,
 1981, or successor orders.
SEC. 404. RATE OF BASIC PAY FOR CIA INSPECTOR GENERAL.
 Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following:
 `Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency'.
SEC. 405. TRANSPORTATION OF REMAINS OF CERTAIN NSA EMPLOYEES.
 The National Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 note) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new section:
 `SEC. 17. (a) The Secretary of Defense may pay the expenses referred to in
 section 5742(b) of title 5, United States Code, in the case of any employee
 of the National Security Agency who dies while on a rotational tour of duty
 within the United States or while in transit to or from such tour of duty.
 `(b) For the purposes of this section, the term `rotational tour of duty',
 with respect to an employee, means a permanent change of station involving
 the transfer of the employee from the National Security Agency headquarters
 to another post of duty for a fixed period established by regulation to
 be followed at the end of such period by a permanent change of station
 involving a transfer of the employee back to such headquarters.'.
SEC. 406. REPORT CONCERNING CERTAIN UNITED STATES PERSONNEL CLASSIFIED
AS PRISONER OF WAR OR MISSING IN ACTION DURING WORLD WAR II OR THE KOREAN
CONFLICT.
 (a) REPORT- The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Select Committee
 on POW/MIA Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the
 Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
 of the House of Representatives a report which sets forth the following:
 (1) The number of members of the Armed Forces or civilian employees of the
 United States who remain unaccounted for as a result of military actions
 during World War II or the Korean conflict.
 (2) A description of the nature and location of any military records which
 pertain to those individuals, including the extent to which those records
 are available to family members or members of the public and the process
 by which access to those records may be obtained.
 (3) An identification and description of any military records (including
 the location of such records) pertaining to those individuals that are
 not available to family members or members of the public and a statement
 explaining why those records are not available to family members or the
 public.
 (4) An assessment of the feasibility and costs of identifying, segregating,
 and relocating all such records to a central location within the United
 States, including an estimate of the percentage of those records regarding
 such individuals that are currently maintained by the Department of Defense.
 (b) DEADLINE FOR REPORT- The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted
 not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE V--FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. FBI CRITICAL SKILLS SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
 (a) STUDY- The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall conduct
 a study relative to the establishment of an undergraduate training program
 with respect to employees of the Federal Bureau of Investigation that is
 similar in purpose, conditions, content, and administration to undergraduate
 training programs administered by the Central Intelligence Agency (under
 section 8 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403j)),
 the National Security Agency (under section 16 of the National Security
 Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 (note)), and the Defense Intelligence
 Agency (under section 1608 of title 10, United States Code).
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- Any program proposed under subsection (a) may be
 implemented only after the Department of Justice and the Office of Management
 and Budget review and approve the implementation of such program.
 (c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Any payment made by the Director of the Federal
 Bureau of Investigation to carry out any program proposed to be established
 under subsection (a) may be made in any fiscal year only to the extent that
 appropriated funds are available for that purpose.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CONSOLIDATION PLAN
SEC. 601. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY CONSOLIDATION PLAN.
 (a) FUNDING LIMITATION- Of the amount authorized by this Act for the Central
 Intelligence Agency Program, not more than $10,000,000 is authorized
 for costs associated with the land acquisition and related expenditures
 necessary to implement a plan for consolidation of Central Intelligence
 Agency facilities. None of such funds may be obligated to implement such
 plan until all of the conditions set forth in subsection (d) have been met
 and (except as provided in subsection (c)) a period of 60 days beginning
 on the date on which all of such conditions have been met has expired. Any
 certification or report required under that subsection shall be provided in
 writing to the intelligence committees and the appropriations committees. If
 any of the required certifications cannot be provided, then the Director
 of Central Intelligence shall reopen the planning process with respect to
 the consolidation plan to the extent required to address any procedures
 that were determined to be deficient.
 (b) ADDITIONAL FUNDING- Pursuant to the procedures set forth in the joint
 explanatory statement of managers to accompany the conference report on the
 bill H.R. 2038 of the 102d Congress, an amount not to exceed $20,000,000
 is authorized and may be made available if the Director determines that
 funds in addition to the amount specified in subsection (a) are required
 during fiscal year 1992 for costs associated with the land acquisition and
 related expenditures necessary to implement the consolidation plan.
 (c) LIMITED WAIVER OF 60-DAY REVIEW PERIOD- The Director may spend not
 to exceed $500,000 of the funds specified in subsection (a) for options
 and agreements to ensure the continued availability of property under
 consideration for the consolidation plan without regard to the 60-day period
 specified in subsection (a).
 (d) CONDITIONS- The following conditions and certifications must be met
 before the funds specified in subsection (a) may be obligated:
 (1) The Director of Central Intelligence has certified--
 (A) that with respect to procedures governing land acquisition by the
 Central Intelligence Agency--
 (i) there are written procedures for such acquisition currently in effect;
 (ii) those procedures are consistent with land acquisition procedures of
 the General Services Administration; and
 (iii) the process used by the Central Intelligence Agency in developing
 the consolidation plan was in accordance with those written procedures; and
 (B) that with respect to contracts of the Agency for construction and for
 the acquisition of movable property, equipment, and services, the procedures
 of the Agency are consistent with procedures under the Federal Acquisition
 Regulation.
 (2) The Administrator of General Services has provided a written report
 stating that in the opinion of the Administrator (A) implementing the
 consolidation plan will result in cost savings to the United States
 Government, and (B) the consolidation plan will conform to applicable local
 governmental regulations.
 (3) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget has certified--
 (A) that the consolidation plan (and associated costs) have been reviewed
 by the Office of Management and Budget;
 (B) that the funding for such plan is consistent with the 1990 budget
 agreement; and
 (C) that funding for such plan has been approved by the Administration for
 fiscal year 1992.
 (4) The Inspector General of the Central Intelligence Agency has certified
 that corrective actions, if any, recommended as a result of the Inspector
 General's inquiry into the consolidation plan, and concurred in by the
 Director of Central Intelligence, will be implemented.
 (5) The Director of Central Intelligence has provided to the intelligence
 committees and appropriations committees a written report on the consolidation
 plan that includes--
 (A) a comprehensive site evaluation, including zoning, site engineering,
 and environmental requirements, logistics, physical and technical security,
 and communications compatibility;
 (B) a description of the anticipated effect of implementing the consolidation
 plan on personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency, including a discussion
 of the organizations and personnel that will be relocated and the rationale
 for such relocations and the Director's assurance that personnel are
 consulted and considered in the consolidation effort; and
 (C) the Director's assurances that the Director, in evaluating and approving
 the plan, has considered global changes and budget constraints that may have
 the effect of reducing Central Intelligence Agency personnel requirements
 in the future.
 (e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 (1) The term `intelligence committees' means the Permanent Select Committee
 on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee
 on Intelligence of the Senate.
 (2) The term `appropriations committees' means the Committees on
 Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
TITLE VII--BUDGET TOTAL FOR INTELLIGENCE AND INTELLIGENCE-RELATED ACTIVITIES
SEC. 701. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING DISCLOSURE OF ANNUAL INTELLIGENCE BUDGET.
 It is the sense of Congress that, beginning in 1993, and in each year
 thereafter, the aggregate amount requested and authorized for, and spent
 on, intelligence and intelligence-related activities should be disclosed
 to the public in an appropriate manner.
TITLE VIII--NATIONAL SECURITY SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, AND GRANTS
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE, FINDINGS, AND PURPOSES.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This title may be cited as the `National Security Education
 Act of 1991'.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The security of the United States is and will continue to depend on
 the ability of the United States to exercise international leadership.
 (2) The ability of the United States to exercise international leadership is,
 and will increasingly continue to be, based on the political and economic
 strength of the United States, as well as on United States military strength
 around the world.
 (3) Recent changes in the world pose threats of a new kind to international
 stability as Cold War tensions continue to decline while economic competition,
 regional conflicts, terrorist activities, and weapon proliferations have
 dramatically increased.
 (4) The future national security and economic well-being of the United States
 will depend substantially on the ability of its citizens to communicate
 and compete by knowing the languages and cultures of other countries.
 (5) The Federal Government has an interest in ensuring that the employees
 of its departments and agencies with national security responsibilities are
 prepared to meet the challenges of this changing international environment.
 (6) The Federal Government also has an interest in taking actions to
 alleviate the problem of American undergraduate and graduate students being
 inadequately prepared to meet the challenges posed by increasing global
 interaction among nations.
 (7) American colleges and universities must place a new emphasis on improving
 the teaching of foreign languages, area studies, and other international
 fields to help meet those challenges.
 (c) PURPOSES- The purposes of this title are as follows:
 (1) To provide the necessary resources, accountability, and flexibility to
 meet the national security education needs of the United States, especially
 as such needs change over time.
 (2) To increase the quantity, diversity, and quality of the teaching and
 learning of subjects in the fields of foreign languages, area studies,
 and other international fields that are critical to the Nation's interest.
 (3) To produce an increased pool of applicants for work in the departments
 and agencies of the United States Government with national security
 responsibilities.
 (4) To expand, in conjunction with other Federal programs, the international
 experience, knowledge base, and perspectives on which the United States
 citizenry, Government employees, and leaders rely.
 (5) To permit the Federal Government to advocate the cause of international
 education.
SEC. 802. SCHOLARSHIP, FELLOWSHIP, AND GRANT PROGRAM.
 (a) PROGRAM REQUIRED-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a program for--
 (A) awarding scholarships to undergraduate students who are United States
 citizens in order to enable such students to study, for at least one academic
 semester, in foreign countries that are critical countries (as determined
 under section 803(d)(4)(A));
 (B) awarding fellowships to graduate students who--
 (i) are United States citizens to enable such students to pursue education
 in the United States in the disciplines of foreign languages, area studies,
 and other international fields that are critical areas of those disciplines
 (as determined under section 803(d)(4)(B)); and
 (ii) pursuant to subsection (b)(2), enter into an agreement to work for an
 agency or office of the Federal Government or in the field of education in
 the area of study for which the fellowship was awarded; and
 (C) awarding grants to institutions of higher education to enable such
 institutions to establish, operate, or improve programs in foreign languages,
 area studies, and other international fields that are critical areas of
 those disciplines (as determined under section 803(d)(4)(C)).
 (2) FUNDING ALLOCATIONS- Of the amount available for obligation out of the
 National Security Education Trust Fund for any fiscal year for the purposes
 stated in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall have a goal of allocating--
 (A)  1/3  of such amount for the awarding of scholarships pursuant to
 paragraph (1)(A);
 (B)  1/3  of such amount for the awarding of fellowships pursuant to paragraph
 (1)(B); and
 (C)  1/3  of such amount for the awarding of grants pursuant to paragraph
 (1)(C).
 (3) CONSULTATION WITH NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION BOARD- The program
 required under this title shall be carried out in consultation with the
 National Security Education Board established under section 803.
 (4) CONTRACT AUTHORITY- The Secretary may enter into one or more contracts,
 with private national organizations having an expertise in foreign
 languages, area studies, and other international fields, for the awarding
 of the scholarships, fellowships, and grants described in paragraph (1)
 in accordance with the provisions of this title. The Secretary may enter
 into such contracts without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes
 (41 U.S.C. 5) or any other provision of law that requires the use of
 competitive procedures.
 (b) SERVICE AGREEMENT- In awarding a scholarship or fellowship under the
 program, the Secretary or contract organization referred to in subsection
 (a)(4), as the case may be, shall require a recipient of any fellowship, or
 of scholarships that provide assistance for periods that aggregate 12 months
 or more, to enter into an agreement that, in return for such assistance,
 the recipient--
 (1) will maintain satisfactory academic progress, as determined in accordance
 with regulations issued by the Secretary, and agrees that failure to maintain
 such progress shall constitute grounds upon which the Secretary or contract
 organization referred to in subsection (a)(4) may terminate such assistance;
 (2) will, upon completion of such recipient's baccalaureate degree or
 education under the program, as the case may be, and in accordance with
 regulations issued by the Secretary, work for the Federal Government or
 in the field of education in the area of study for which the scholarship
 or fellowship was awarded for a period specified by the Secretary, which
 period for the recipients of scholarships shall be no more than the same
 period for which scholarship assistance was provided and for the recipients
 of fellowships shall be not less than one and not more than three times
 the period for which the fellowship assistance was provided; and
 (3) if the recipient fails to meet either of the obligations set forth in
 paragraph (1) or (2), will reimburse the United States Government for the
 amount of the assistance provided the recipient under the program, together
 with interest at a rate determined in accordance with regulations issued
 by the Secretary.
 (c) DISTRIBUTION OF ASSISTANCE- In selecting the recipients for awards of
 scholarships, fellowships, or grants pursuant to this title, the Secretary
 or a contract organization referred to in subsection (a)(4), as the case may
 be, shall take into consideration (1) the extent to which the selections
 will result in there being an equitable geographic distribution of such
 scholarships, fellowships, or grants (as the case may be) among the various
 regions of the United States, and (2) the extent to which the distribution of
 scholarships and fellowships to individuals reflects the cultural, racial,
 and ethnic diversity of the population of the United States.
 (d) MERIT REVIEW- The Secretary shall award scholarships, fellowships,
 and grants under the program based upon a merit review process.
 (e) ADMINISTRATION OF PROGRAM THROUGH THE DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE COLLEGE-
 The Secretary shall administer the program through the Defense Intelligence
 College.
 (f) LIMITATION ON USE OF PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS- No person who receives a
 grant, scholarship, or fellowship or any other type of assistance under this
 title shall, as a condition of receiving such assistance or under any other
 circumstances, be used by any department, agency, or entity of the United
 States Government engaged in intelligence activities to undertake any activity
 on its behalf during the period such person is pursuing a program of education
 for which funds are provided under the program carried out under this title.
SEC. 803. NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION BOARD.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Defense shall establish a National
 Security Education Board.
 (b) COMPOSITION- The Board shall be composed of the following individuals
 or the representatives of such individuals:
 (1) The Secretary of Defense, who shall serve as the chairman of the Board.
 (2) The Secretary of Education.
 (3) The Secretary of State.
 (4) The Secretary of Commerce.
 (5) The Director of Central Intelligence.
 (6) The Director of the United States Information Agency.
 (7) Four individuals appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate, who shall be experts in the fields of international,
 language, and area studies education.
 (c) TERM OF APPOINTEES- Each individual appointed to the Board pursuant
 to subsection (b)(7) shall be appointed for a period specified by the
 President at the time of the appointment, but not to exceed four years. Such
 individuals shall receive no compensation for service on the Board but may
 receive reimbursement for travel and other necessary expenses.
 (d) FUNCTIONS- The Board shall perform the following functions:
 (1) Develop criteria for awarding scholarships, fellowships, and grants
 under this title.
 (2) Provide for wide dissemination of information regarding the activities
 assisted under this title.
 (3) Establish qualifications for students desiring scholarships or
 fellowships, and institutions of higher education desiring grants, under
 this title, including, in the case of students desiring a scholarship or
 fellowship, a requirement that the student have a demonstrated commitment
 to the study of the discipline for which the scholarship or fellowship is
 to be awarded.
 (4) Make recommendations to the Secretary regarding--
 (A) which countries are not emphasized in other United States study
 abroad programs, such as countries in which few United States students
 are studying, and are, therefore, critical countries for the purposes of
 section 802(a)(1)(A);
 (B) which areas within the disciplines described in section 802(a)(1)(B)
 are areas of study in which United States students are deficient in learning
 and are, therefore, critical areas within those disciplines for the purposes
 of that section;
 (C) which areas within the disciplines described in section 802(a)(1)(C) are
 areas in which United States students, educators, and Government employees
 are deficient in learning and in which insubstantial numbers of United
 States institutions of higher education provide training and are, therefore,
 critical areas within those disciplines for the purposes of that section; and
 (D) how students desiring scholarships or fellowships can be encouraged
 to work for an agency or office of the Federal Government involved in
 national security affairs or national security policy upon completion of
 their education.
 (5) Review the administration of the program required under this title.
SEC. 804. NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION TRUST FUND.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- There is established in the Treasury of the
 United States a trust fund to be known as the `National Security Education
 Trust Fund'. The assets of the Fund consist of amounts appropriated to the
 Fund and amounts credited to the Fund under subsection (e).
 (b) AVAILABILITY OF SUMS IN THE FUND- (1) Sums in the Fund shall, to the
 extent provided in appropriations Acts, be available--
 (A) for awarding scholarships, fellowships, and grants in accordance with
 the provisions of this title; and
 (B) for properly allocable costs of the Federal Government for the
 administration of the program under this title.
 (2) No amount may be appropriated to the Fund, or obligated from the Fund,
 unless authorized by law.
 (c) INVESTMENT OF FUND ASSETS- The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest
 in full the amount in the Fund that is not immediately necessary for
 obligation. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing obligations
 of the United States or in obligations guaranteed as to both principal and
 interest by the United States. For such purpose, such obligations may be
 acquired on original issue at the issue price or by purchase of outstanding
 obligations at the market price. The purposes for which obligations of the
 United States may be issued under chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code,
 are hereby extended to authorize the issuance at par of special obligations
 exclusively to the Fund. Such special obligations shall bear interest at a
 rate equal to the average rate of interest, computed as to the end of the
 calendar month next preceding the date of such issue, borne by all marketable
 interest-bearing obligations of the United States then forming a part of
 the public debt, except that where such average rate is not a multiple of
 1/8  of 1 percent, the rate of interest of such special obligations shall be
 the multiple of  1/8  of 1 percent next lower than such average rate. Such
 special obligations shall be issued only if the Secretary of the Treasury
 determines that the purchases of other interest-bearing obligations of
 the United States, or of obligations guaranteed as to both principal and
 interest by the United States or original issue or at the market price,
 is not in the public interest.
 (d) AUTHORITY TO SELL OBLIGATIONS- Any obligation acquired by the Fund
 (except special obligations issued exclusively to the Fund) may be sold
 by the Secretary of the Treasury at the market price, and such special
 obligations may be redeemed at par plus accrued interest.
 (e) AMOUNTS CREDITED TO FUND- (1) The interest on, and the proceeds from the
 sale or redemption of, any obligations held in the Fund shall be credited
 to and form a part of the Fund.
 (2) Any amount paid to the United States under section 802(b)(3) shall be
 credited to and form a part of the Fund.
SEC. 805. REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
 (a) REGULATIONS- The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry out the
 program required by this title. Before prescribing any such regulations,
 the Secretary shall submit a copy of the proposed regulations to the Select
 Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee
 on Intelligence of the House of Representatives. Such proposed regulations
 may not take effect until 30 days after the date on which they are submitted
 to those committees.
 (b) ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF GIFTS- In order to conduct the program required
 by this title, the Secretary may--
 (1) receive money and other property donated, bequeathed, or devised,
 without condition or restriction other than that it be used for the purpose
 of conducting the program required by this title; and
 (2) may use, sell, or otherwise dispose of such property for that purpose.
 (c) VOLUNTARY SERVICES- In order to conduct the program required by this
 title, the Secretary may accept and use the services of voluntary and
 noncompensated personnel.
 (d)  NECESSARY EXPENDITURES- Expenditures necessary to conduct the program
 required by this title shall be paid from the Fund, subject to section 804(b).
SEC. 806. ANNUAL REPORT.
 (a) ANNUAL REPORT- The Secretary shall submit to the President and to
 the Congress an annual report of the conduct of the program required by
 this title. The report shall be submitted each year at the time that the
 President's budget for the next fiscal year is submitted to Congress pursuant
 to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code.
 (b) CONTENTS OF REPORT- Each such report shall contain--
 (1) an analysis of the trends within language, international, and area
 studies, along with a survey of such areas as the Secretary determines are
 receiving inadequate attention;
 (2) the effect on those trends of activities under the program required by
 this title;
 (3) an analysis of the assistance provided under the program for the previous
 fiscal year, to include the subject areas being addressed and the nature
 of the assistance provided;
 (4) an analysis of the performance of the individuals who received assistance
 under the program during the previous fiscal year, to include the degree to
 which assistance was terminated under the program and the extent to which
 individual recipients failed to meet their obligations under the program;
 (5) an analysis of the results of the program for the previous fiscal year,
 and cumulatively, to include, at a minimum--
 (A) the percentage of individuals who have received assistance under the
 program who subsequently became employees of the United States Government;
 (B) in the case of individuals who did not subsequently become employees
 of the United States Government, an analysis of the reasons why they did
 not become employees and an explanation as to what use, if any, was made
 of the assistance by those recipients; and
 (C) the uses made of grants to educational institutions; and
 (6) any legislative changes recommended by the Secretary to facilitate the
 administration of the program or otherwise to enhance its objectives.
 (c) SUBMISSION OF INITIAL REPORT- The first report under this section
 shall be submitted at the time the budget for fiscal year 1994 is submitted
 to Congress.
SEC. 807. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE AUDITS.
 The conduct of the program required by this title may be audited by
 the General Accounting Office under such rules and regulations as may be
 prescribed by the Comptroller General of the United States. Representatives
 of the General Accounting Office shall have access to all books, accounts,
 records, reports, and files and all other papers, things, or property of
 the Department of Defense pertaining to such activities and necessary to
 facilitate the audit.
SEC. 808. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purpose of this title:
 (1) The term `Board' means the National Security Education Board established
 pursuant to section 803.
 (2) The term `Fund' means the National Security Education Trust Fund
 established pursuant to section 804.
 (3) The term `institution of higher education' has the meaning given
 that term by section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
 U.S.C. 1141(a)) .
SEC. 809. FISCAL YEAR 1992 FUNDING.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS TO THE FUND- There is hereby authorized
 to be appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 1992 the sum of $150,000,000.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF OBLIGATIONS FROM THE FUND- During fiscal year 1992,
 there may be obligated from the Fund such amounts as may be provided in
 appropriations Acts, not to exceed $35,000,000.  Amounts made available
 for obligation from the Fund for fiscal year 1992 shall remain available
 until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.