 
--H.R.794--
H.R.794
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To establish the Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge along the
Connecticut River, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--SILVIO O. CONTE NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE REFUGE ACT
SECTION 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife
 Refuge Act'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds and declares the following:
 (1) The late Silvio Conte was a long-time champion of the preservation of
 natural resources, including the Connecticut River, shepherding through
 Congress legislation meant to restore the river and its wildlife to health.
 (2) The Connecticut River and its riparian lands are unique environmental
 resources which provide habitat for significant anadromous, migratory, and
 resident fish; migratory waterfowl; and other wildlife species, including such
 threatened or endangered species as the shortnosed sturgeon and bald eagle.
 (3) Federal, State, and local governments have spent over $600,000,000
 to clean up the Connecticut River and improve the quality of its fish and
 wildlife habitat, resulting in the reestablishment or improvement of the
 populations of many species such as the Atlantic salmon, American shad,
 bald eagle, and peregrine falcon.
 (4) The Connecticut River valley is home to over two million people, and
 accordingly the river and riparian lands are of great value for environmental
 education and natural resource based recreation.
 (5) The Connecticut River valley is threatened with spoilation, removal
 from public access, and ecological downgrading and is a significant source
 of energy and means of commerce for New England.
 (6) Despoiling the Connecticut River and its riparian lands will result in
 the permanent loss of unique social, educational, and environmental assets
 and will devalue the significant Federal, State and local investments made
 to clean up the river.
SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `affected States' means the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
 and the States of Vermont, New Hampshire, and Connecticut;
 (2) the term `refuge' means the Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife
 Refuge established under section 106 of this Act;
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through
 the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; and
 (4) the term `selection area' means the lands and waters of the Connecticut
 River basin, including the main stem of the river and its tributaries from
 its source at Fourth Connecticut Lake to Long Island Sound.
SEC. 104. PURPOSES.
 The purposes for which the refuge is established are--
 (1) to conserve, protect, and enhance the Connecticut River valley populations
 of Atlantic salmon, American shad, river herring, shortnosed sturgeon,
 bald eagles, peregrine falcons, osprey, black ducks, and other native
 species of plants, fish, and wildlife;
 (2) to conserve, protect, and enhance the natural diversity and abundance
 of plant, fish, and wildlife species and the ecosystems upon which these
 species depend within the refuge;
 (3) to protect species listed as endangered or threatened, or identified
 as candidates for listing, pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973,
 as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.);
 (4) to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity
 of wetlands and other waters within the refuge;
 (5) to fulfill the international treaty obligations of the United States
 relating to fish and wildlife and wetlands; and
 (6) to provide opportunities for scientific research, environmental education,
 and fish and wildlife-oriented recreation and access to the extent compatible
 with the other purposes stated in this section.
SEC. 105. SELECTION OF LANDS.
 Within three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary shall--
 (1) consult with appropriate State and local officials, including those
 representing State government natural heritage inventory agencies, the
 Long Island Sound Management Conference as established under the National
 Estuary Program, private conservation organizations, and other interested
 parties in designating the refuge boundaries;
 (2) define and designate the refuge boundaries, including all subunits,
 within the selection area that would fulfill the purposes set forth in
 section 104 of this Act; and
 (3) prepare a detailed map depicting the refuge boundaries designated under
 paragraph (2), which the Secretary shall keep on file and available for
 public inspection at offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
 and publish notice in the Federal Register of such availability.
SEC. 106. ACQUISITION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF REFUGE.
 (a) ACQUISITION- To the extent authorized under the Fish and Wildlife Act
 of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742f-a-5), the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of
 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460k-4-11), the Endangered Species Act of 1973,
 as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), the Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 715-715s), the Emergency Wetlands Resources Act of 1986, as amended
 (16 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.), the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 4401-4413), and other existing laws, the Secretary may acquire for
 inclusion in the refuge by purchase or donation such lands and waters or
 interests therein (including permanent conservation easements) within the
 boundaries defined and designated under section 105 of this Act. All lands,
 waters, and interests therein so acquired shall be part of the refuge.
 (b) ESTABLISHMENT- When sufficient property within the boundaries defined and
 designated under section 105 of this Act have been acquired to constitute
 an area that can be effectively managed as a refuge, the Secretary shall
 establish the refuge, to be named the `Silvio Conte National Fish and
 Wildlife Refuge', by publishing a notice to that effect in the Federal
 Register and publications of local circulation.
 (c) BOUNDARY REVISIONS- The Secretary may make such minor revisions in
 the boundaries of the refuge defined and designated under section 105 of
 this Act as may be appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act or to
 facilitate the acquisition of property within the refuge.
 (d) INTERIM REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within one year of the date of enactment
 of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Environment
 and Public Works in the United States Senate and the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries in the United States House of Representatives a report
 describing those lands and waters that the Secretary proposes to acquire
 under the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 742f-a-5), the Land
 and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965, as amended (16 U.S.C. 460k-4-11),
 the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.),
 the Migratory Bird Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 715-715s), the Emergency
 Wetlands Resources Act of 1986, as amended (16 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.),
 the North American Wetlands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4401-4413), and
 other existing laws for inclusion in the refuge at a subsequent time. The
 Secretary also shall include in the report an estimate of the total number
 of acres of lands or waters or interests therein that may be acquired for
 inclusion within the refuge boundaries under the authority of this Act and
 other existing laws and the approximate cost of such acquisition.
SEC. 107. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall administer all lands, waters, and
 interests therein acquired under section 106 pursuant to--
 (1) the provisions of the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration
 Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and the Refuge Recreation Act (16
 U.S.C. 460k-460k-4); and
 (2) the purposes for which the refuge is established, as set forth in
 section 104 of this Act.
 (b) OUTREACH AND EDUCATION- The Secretary shall work with, provide technical
 assistance to, provide community outreach and education programs for or
 with, or enter into cooperative agreements with private landowners, State
 and local governments or agencies, and conservation organizations to further
 the purposes for which the refuge is established, as set forth in section
 104 of this Act.
 (c) USE OF OTHER AUTHORITY- The Secretary may utilize such other statutory
 authority as may be available to the Secretary for the conservation and
 development of wildlife and natural resources, the development of outdoor
 recreation opportunities, and interpretive education, as the Secretary
 considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of the refuge as set forth
 in section 104 of this Act.
SEC. 108. SILVIO CONTE NATIONAL FISH AND WILDLIFE REFUGE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS- Within three months after the date of
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a committee to be known
 as the `Silvio Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge Advisory Committee'
 (hereinafter referred to as the `Advisory Committee') which shall assist
 the Secretary on community outreach and education programs that further
 the purposes of the refuge.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP; TERMS- The Advisory Committee shall be composed of fifteen
 members, each appointed by the Secretary within three months of the date
 of enactment of this Act for a term not to exceed three years, as follows:
 (1) four members, including one from each of the affected States, to be
 recommended by the Governor of each State as representing the cities or
 towns bordering the Connecticut River and its tributaries;
 (2) four members, including one from each of the affected States, to be
 recommended by the Governor of each State as representing State agencies
 with responsibility for conservation or water quality programs;
 (3) four members, including one from each of the affected States to be
 appointed from recommendations made by the Governor of that affected State,
 who shall represent nonprofit conservation organizations or citizen groups
 with direct interest in the purposes of the refuge;
 (4) one member of the Long Island Sound Management Conference; and
 (5) two members to be designated by the Secretary, including one who
 represents the energy and commerce interests associated with the Connecticut
 River.
 (c) CHAIRMAN- The Advisory Committee shall elect one member of the Advisory
 Committee to be its chairman.
 (d) VACANCIES- Any vacancy in the Advisory Committee shall be filled in
 the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (e) COMPENSATION- A member of the Advisory Committee shall not receive any
 compensation for service on the committee.
 (f) MAJORITY VOTE- The Advisory Committee shall act by affirmative vote of
 a majority of the members thereof.
SEC. 109. INTERPRETATION AND EDUCATION CENTER.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to construct, administer,
 and maintain at appropriate sites within the refuge, or pursuant to
 subsection (b) cooperate in the construction, operation and maintenance
 at an appropriate site, not more than four aquatic resources and wildlife
 interpretation and education centers, known as Silvio Conte National Fish
 and Wildlife Refuge Education Centers, along with administrative facilities,
 to provide opportunities for the study, understanding, and enjoyment of
 aquatic resources and wildlife in its natural habitats.
 (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized--
 (1) to enter agreements to share the construction and operation of and the
 land acquisition for the center, including the costs thereof, with State
 and local governments and other public and private entities;
 (2) to utilize appropriated or donated funds for construction, operation
 and maintenance expenses: Provided, That Federal interests arising from such
 expenditures are protected by a long-term lease, agreement, or transfer of
 property interest; and
 (3) to interpret the Connecticut River's aquatic and wildlife resources in
 the context of the region's cultural, geological, and ecological history.
SEC. 110. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may
 be necessary to carry out the purposes of this Act.
TITLE II--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT AND TERMS OF SILVIO O. CONTE MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP FUND.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In recognition of Silvio O. Conte's longstanding contribution
 and devotion to the conservation of our Nation's natural resources, and
 his life-long commitment to education, the Director of the United States
 Fish and Wildlife Service, hereinafter referred to as the Director, is
 authorized to enter into an agreement with the National Fish and Wildlife
 Foundation, hereinafter referred to as the Foundation, and the University of
 Massachusetts/Amherst, hereinafter referred to as the University, to establish
 the Silvio O. Conte Memorial Scholarship Fund. The purpose of the agreement
 is to encourage students to enter the fields of fisheries and wildlife
 ecology and conservation, natural resources policy and administration,
 or ecology by establishing a scholarship fund at the University.
 (b) TERMS OF AGREEMENT- Notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal
 Grant and Cooperative Agreements Act of 1977 (31 U.S.C. 6301-6308), the
 agreement authorized under subsection (a) of this section shall direct that
 the University shall--
 (1) establish the Silvio O. Conte Memorial Scholarship Fund for the purpose
 of awarding scholarships for a period not exceeding three years to eligible
 candidates in advanced degree programs in the fields of fisheries and wildlife
 ecology and conservation, natural resources policy and administration,
 or ecology;
 (2) invest funds provided by the Director, the Foundation and any other
 contributors in interest-bearing accounts;
 (3) award scholarships annually utilizing the interest generated from such
 investment accounts minus the amount equal to inflation;
 (4) match the scholarship awards with in-kind contributions of equal value,
 such as waivers of tuition or fees or the provision of other financial aid;
 (5) establish eligibility criteria based upon financial needs, academic
 achievement, and potential contribution of the profession;
 (6) announce the availability of the scholarship in a manner which ensures
 that it is widely distributed and that minority and socially-disadvantaged
 candidates are made aware of the opportunity;
 (7) upon request by the Director, make available the investment accounts
 for his inspection; and
 (8) prepare and provide to the Director annually a report regarding the
 expenditures from the investment accounts which shall include the number
 of scholarships awarded, the amount of each scholarship, and the share of
 each scholarship provided by the University.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION- The Director is authorized to make a one-time contribution
 of up to $50,000 to the University to establish the Silvio O. Conte Memorial
 Scholarship Fund.
 (d) TERMINATION OF AGREEMENT- At such time as the parties agree to terminate
 the agreement authorized under subsection (a) of this section, the principle
 and interest in the account shall be deposited in the Migratory Bird
 Conservation Fund.
SEC. 202. WILDLIFE INTERPRETATION AND EDUCATION CENTER.
 Title II of Public Law 100-610 is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 208. WILDLIFE INTERPRETATION AND EDUCATION CENTER.
 `(a) The Secretary is authorized to construct, administer, and maintain at an
 appropriate site, a wildlife interpretation and education or visitor center.
 `(b) The Secretary is authorized--
 `(1) to enter agreements to share the construction and operation of and the
 land acquisition for the center, including the costs thereof, with State
 and local governments and other public and private entities;
 `(2) to utilize appropriated or donated funds for construction, operation
 and maintenance expenses, provided that Federal interests arising from such
 expenditures are protected by a long-term lease, agreement, or transfer of
 property interest; and
 `(3) to interpret the Pettaquamscutt Cove region's aquatic and wildlife
 resources in the context of the region's cultural, geological, and ecological
 history.'.
TITLE III--CULEBRA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE
SEC. 301. HEADQUARTERS FACILITY FOR CULEBRA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
 The headquarters facility and residence for the Culebra National Wildlife
 Refuge may be constructed on lands leased from the Commonwealth of Puerto
 Rico on a long-term basis.
SEC. 302. COST-SHARING FOR STATE COASTAL WETLANDS GRANTS.
 (a) FEDERAL SHARE- Section 305(d)(1) of the Coastal Wetlands Planning,
 Protection and Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 3954(d)(1)) is amended by
 striking `has established a trust fund, from which the principal is not
 spent, for the purpose of acquiring coastal wetlands, other natural area
 or open spaces.' and inserting in lieu thereof: `has established and is
 using one of the following for the purpose of acquiring coastal wetlands,
 other natural areas or open spaces:
 `(A) a trust fund from which the principal is not spent; or
 `(B) a fund derived from a dedicated recurring source of monies including,
 but not limited to, real estate transfer fees or taxes, cigarette taxes,
 tax check-offs, or motor vehicle license plate fees.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall apply to grants awarded in fiscal
 year 1992 and each fiscal year thereafter.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.