 
--H.R.5481--
H.R.5481
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 relating to administrative assessment
of civil penalties.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `FAA Civil Penalty Administrative Assessment
 Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 901(a)(3) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958
 (49 U.S.C. 1471(a)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(3) ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT-
 `(A) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Upon written notice and finding of a violation by the
 Administrator, the Administrator, or the delegate of the Administrator, may
 assess a civil penalty for a violation of title III, V, VI, or XII or section
 1101 or 1115(e)(2)(B) or any rule, regulation, or order issued thereunder.
 `(B) NO REEXAMINATION OF LIABILITY OR AMOUNT- In the case of a civil penalty
 assessed by the Administrator under this paragraph, the issue of liability
 or amount of civil penalty shall not be reexamined in any subsequent suit
 for collection of such civil penalty.
 `(C) CONTINUING JURISDICTION OF DISTRICT COURTS- Notwithstanding subparagraph
 (A), the United States district courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction
 of any civil penalty initiated by the Administrator--
 `(i) which involves an amount in controversy in excess of $50,000;
 `(ii) which is an in rem action or in which an in rem action based on the
 same violation has been brought;
 `(iii) regarding which an aircraft subject to lien has been seized by the
 United States; and
 `(iv) in which a suit for injunctive relief based on the violation giving
 rise to the civil penalty has also been brought.
 `(D) PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO VIOLATIONS BY PILOTS, FLIGHT ENGINEERS,
 MECHANICS, AND REPAIRMEN-
 `(i) NOTICE OF CHARGES- Before issuing an order assessing a civil penalty
 under this paragraph against a person acting in the capacity of a pilot,
 flight engineer, mechanic, or repairman, the Administrator shall advise such
 person of the charges or any reasons relied upon by the Administrator for
 the proposed action and shall provide such person an opportunity to answer
 any charges and be heard as to why such order should not be issued.
 `(ii) APPEAL TO NTSB- Any person acting in the capacity of a pilot, flight
 engineer, mechanic, or repairman against whom an order assessing a civil
 penalty is issued by the Administrator under this paragraph may appeal the
 order to the National Transportation Safety Board, and the Board shall, after
 notice and a hearing on the record in accordance with section 554 of title 5,
 United States Code, affirm, modify, or reverse the order of the Administrator.
 `(iii) WEIGHT AFFORDED TO FINDINGS AND INTERPRETATIONS OF FAA- In the conduct
 of its hearings under this subparagraph, the National Transportation Safety
 Board shall not be bound by any findings of fact of the Administrator but
 shall be bound by all validly adopted interpretations of laws and regulations
 administered by the Federal Aviation Administration and of written agency
 policy guidance available to the public relating to sanctions to be imposed
 under this subsection unless the Board finds that any such interpretation is
 arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with law. The Board
 may, consistent with this subsection, modify the type of sanctions to be
 imposed from assessment of a civil penalty to suspension or revocation of
 a certificate.
 `(iv) EFFECT OF FILING OF APPEAL- The filing of an appeal of an order of
 the Administrator with the National Transportation Safety Board under this
 subparagraph shall stay the effectiveness of the order.
 `(v) JUDICIAL REVIEW- A person substantially affected by an order of
 the National Transportation Safety Board under this subparagraph or the
 Administrator, in any case in which the Administrator determines that such
 an order will have a significant adverse impact on the implementation of this
 Act, may obtain judicial review of such order under the provisions of section
 1006 of this Act. The Administrator shall be a party to all proceedings for
 judicial review under this clause. In any such proceeding, the findings of
 fact of the Board shall be conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.
 `(E) PROCEDURES WITH RESPECT TO VIOLATIONS BY OTHER PERSONS-
 `(i) GENERAL PROCEDURES- A civil penalty may be assessed against any person
 (other than a person acting in the capacity of a pilot, flight engineer,
 mechanic, or repairman) by the Administrator under this paragraph only
 after notice and an opportunity for a hearing on the record in accordance
 with section 554 of title 5, United States Code.
 `(ii) STANDARD OF REVIEW- In any appeal from a decision of an administrative
 law judge, the Administrator shall consider only the following issues:
 `(I) Whether each finding of fact is supported by a preponderance of reliable,
 probative, and substantial evidence.
 `(II) Whether each conclusion of law is made in accordance with applicable
 law, precedent, and public policy.
 `(III) Whether the administrative law judge committed any prejudicial errors
 that support the appeal.
 `(iii) TIME FOR COMMENCING PROCEEDING- Except where good cause exists, a
 civil penalty action shall not be initiated under this subparagraph after
 2 years from the date the violation occurred.
 `(F) LIMITATION ON APPLICABILITY- This paragraph only applies to violations
 occurring on or after the date of the enactment of the FAA Civil Penalty
 Administrative Assessment Act of 1992.
 `(G) MAXIMUM AMOUNT- The maximum amount of a civil penalty which may be
 assessed by the Administrator or the National Transportation Safety Board
 under this paragraph may not exceed $50,000.
 `(H) DEFINITIONS- In this paragraph, the following definitions apply:
 `(i) FLIGHT ENGINEER- The term `flight engineer' means a person who holds
 a flight engineer certificate issued under part 63 of title 14 of the Code
 of Federal Regulations.
 `(ii) MECHANIC- The term `mechanic' means a person who holds a mechanic
 certificate issued under part 65 of title 14 of the Code of Federal
 Regulations.
 `(iii) PILOT- The term `pilot' means a person who holds a pilot certificate
 issued under part 61 of title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
 `(iv) REPAIRMAN- The term `repairman' means a person who holds a repairman
 certificate issued under part 65 of title 14 of the Code of Federal
 Regulations.'.
 (b) REPEAL OF DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM- Section 905 of such Act (49
 U.S.C. App. 1475) is repealed.
 (c) CONTINUATION OF FORMER PROGRAMS WITH RESPECT TO PREENACTMENT VIOLATIONS-
 Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this section, sections 901(a)(3)
 and 905 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 as in effect on July 31, 1992,
 shall continue in effect on and after such date of enactment with respect
 to violations of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 occurring before such
 date of enactment.
SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATES PROCEDURE.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- Section 609(a) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958
 (49 U.S.C. App. 1429(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking the fifth sentence and inserting the following: `In the
 conduct of its hearings under this subsection, the Board shall not be bound by
 any findings of fact of the Administrator but shall be bound by all validly
 adopted interpretations of laws and regulations administered by the Federal
 Aviation Administration and of written agency policy guidance available to
 the public relating to sanctions to be imposed under this subsection unless
 the Board finds that any such interpretation is arbitrary, capricious, or
 otherwise not in accordance with law. The Board may, consistent with this
 subsection, modify the type of sanction to be imposed from suspension or
 revocation of a certificate to assessment of a civil penalty.'; and
 (2) by striking the last sentence and inserting the following: `A person
 substantially affected by an order of the Board under this subsection, or the
 Administrator in any case in which the Administrator determines that such an
 order will have a significant adverse impact on the implementation of this
 Act, may obtain judicial review of such order under the provisions of section
 1006 of this Act. The Administrator shall be a party to all proceedings for
 judicial review under this subsection. In any such proceeding, the findings of
 fact of the Board shall be conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.'.
 (b) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ACTIVITIES- Section 609(c)(3) of such Act is
 amended--
 (1) by striking the third sentence and inserting the following: `In the
 conduct of its hearings under this paragraph, the Board shall not be bound by
 any findings of fact of the Administrator but shall be bound by all validly
 adopted interpretations of laws and regulations administered by the Federal
 Aviation Administration and of written agency policy guidance available to
 the public relating to sanctions to be imposed under this subsection unless
 the Board finds that any such interpretation is arbitrary, capricious,
 or otherwise not in accordance with law.'; and
 (2) by striking the last sentence and inserting the following: `A person
 substantially affected by an order of the Board under this paragraph, or the
 Administrator in any case in which the Administrator determines that such an
 order will have a significant adverse impact on the implementation of this
 Act, may obtain judicial review of such order under the provisions of section
 1006 of this Act. The Administrator shall be a party to all proceedings for
 judicial review under this paragraph. In any such proceeding, the findings of
 fact of the Board shall be conclusive if supported by substantial evidence.'.
SEC. 4. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE PROCEDURE.
 Section 602(b)(1) of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. 1422(b)(1))
 is amended by inserting `but shall be bound by all validly adopted
 interpretations of laws and regulations administered by the Federal Aviation
 Administration unless the Board finds that any such interpretation is
 arbitrary, capricious, or otherwise not in accordance with law' after
 `findings of fact of the Administrator'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.