 
--H.R.6135--
H.R.6135
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration for research and development, space flight, control and data
communications, construction of facilities, research and program management,
and Inspector General, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1993'.
TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 101. FINDINGS.
  Congress finds that--
  (1) investments in research and development are directly linked to long-term
  productivity and economic growth;
  (2) as a major driver of advanced technology, the space program can play a
  major role in the Nation's reinvestment in civilian research and development;
  (3) in addition to carrying out the Nation's goals in science and
  exploration, the space program makes a significant and direct contribution
  to the national employment base and, through the development of advanced
  technologies, will contribute to sustaining a healthy employment base and
  economy in the future;
  (4) the long-term health of the United States space program is critically
  dependent on maintaining a stable and continuously evolving core program
  of science, space transportation, space exploration, space technology,
  and space applications;
  (5) such a core program must be based on a realistic projection of resources
  that will be available and, in the near term, should not exceed inflationary
  growth;
  (6) in addition to carrying out a core space program, international
  leadership, technological advancement, and expanded scientific knowledge
  will be enhanced by an expanded space program based on special initiatives
  in science, exploration, space transportation, space technology, and
  space applications;
  (7) the Nation's space program can provide a productive environment for
  utilizing the skills of scientists and engineers formerly involved in the
  Nation's defense sector;
  (8) civil space activities of the United States, whether made possible by,
  or in response to, Cold War strategic competition with the Soviet Union,
  must, in an era of declining political conflict, mature as instruments of
  United States foreign policy, and grow to support the national interest
  during the post-Cold War era;
  (9) the national interest is furthered by trade and cooperation among
  friendly nations, and to the extent the former Soviet republics have shown
  themselves willing and capable of fostering a friendship with the United
  States, the national interest is furthered through trade and cooperation of
  mutual advantage between the United States and the former Soviet republics
  in civil aerospace, space science, and space exploration;
  (10) a vigorous and coordinated effort by the United States and other
  spacefaring nations is needed to minimize the growth of orbital debris,
  and space activities should be conducted in a manner that minimizes the
  likelihood of additional orbital debris creation;
  (11) the aerospace industry, rooted in aeronautics, is a major positive
  contributor to United States international influence and competitiveness;
  (12) aeronautical research and development sustains our leadership in air
  transport and military aviation worldwide; and
  (13) the National Aero-Space Plane is a core technology for any national
  aerospace policy and will permit the United States to maintain a worldwide
  competitive posture into the future.
SEC. 102. FISCAL YEAR 1993 AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to become available
  October 1, 1992, for `Research and Development' for the following programs:
  (1) Space Station Freedom, $2,100,000,000.
  (2) Space Transportation Capability Development, $733,700,000, of which
  $30,000,000 is authorized for the development of the Space Transportation
  Main Engine.
  (3) Physics and Astronomy, $1,096,000,000, of which $22,000,000 is authorized
  for the Shuttle Test of Relativity Experiment.
  (4) Life Sciences, $153,700,000, of which $2,000,000 is authorized for
  cooperative life science activities on the Space Station Mir. None of the
  funds appropriated pursuant to this Act shall be used for the Search for
  Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI).
  (5) Planetary Exploration, $472,200,000, of which $10,000,000 is authorized
  for Magellan mission operations.
  (6) Earth Science and Applications, $838,500,000.
  (7) Materials Processing in Space, $155,300,000.
  (8) Communications, $4,600,000.
  (9) Information Systems, $40,700,000, of which $8,500,000 is authorized
  for the enhancement of existing visualization and mass storage capacity
  in support of earth and space science flight projects.
  (10) Space Science Research Operations Support, $91,000,000.
  (11) Commercial Programs, $156,600,000.
  (12) Aeronautical Research and Technology, $885,200,000, of which $89,900,000
  is authorized for High-Speed Research.
  (13) Transatmospheric Research and Technology, $45,000,000.
  (14) Space Research and Technology, $308,500,000, of which $5,000,000 is
  authorized for carrying out a program of component technology development,
  validation, and demonstration directed at reducing the cost and improving
  the capabilities and reliability of commercial launch vehicles.
  (15) Space Exploration, $15,900,000.
  (16) Safety, Reliability, and Quality Assurance, $32,500,000.
  (17) Academic Programs, $71,400,000.
  (18) Tracking and Data Advanced Systems, $23,200,000.
  (b) SPACE FLIGHT, CONTROL, AND DATA COMMUNICATIONS- There are authorized
  to be appropriated to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  to become available October 1, 1992, for `Space Flight, Control, and Data
  Communications' for the following programs:
  (1) Space Shuttle Production and Operational Capability, $1,315,800,000, of
  which $315,000,000 is authorized for the Advanced Solid Rocket Motor Program.
  (2) Space Transportation Enhancement, $7,000,000, for assessment of the
  mission need and cost justification of providing for the incremental
  improvement in the Space Shuttle fleet, including--
  (A) the extension of on-orbit duration;
  (B) the development of unmanned Shuttle capabilities;
  (C) the increase in lift performance; and
  (D) the enhancement of existent Shuttle flight reliability.
  (3) Space Shuttle Operations, $3,085,200,000.
  (4) Launch Services, $207,500,000.
  (5) Space and Ground Network, Communications, and Data Systems, $903,500,000.
  (c) CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES- There are authorized to be appropriated to
  the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to become available October
  1, 1992, for `Construction of Facilities', including land acquisition,
  as follows:
  (1) Construction of Space Station Processing Facility, Kennedy Space
  Center, $24,000,000.
  (2) Modifications for Payload Operations, Integration Center, Marshall
  Space Flight Center, $1,800,000.
  (3) Replacement of Aircraft Operations Support Facilities, Johnson Space
  Center, $1,600,000.
  (4) Modification of Electrical and Mechanical System, Utility Annex,
  Kennedy Space Center, $4,400,000.
  (5) Rehabilitation of Explosive Safe Area-60 High Bays Support System,
  Kennedy Space Center, $2,000,000.
  (6) Rehabilitation of LC-39 Area Fire Alarm Reporting System, Kennedy
  Space Center, $4,300,000.
  (7) Replacement of Boiler House Components, Michoud Assembly Facility,
  $2,300,000.
  (8) Restoration of High Pressure Gas Facility, Stennis Space Center,
  $6,800,000.
  (9) Rehabilitation of Crawlerway, Kennedy Space Center, $2,000,000.
  (10) Rehabilitation of Information and Electronic Systems Laboratory,
  Marshall Space Flight Center, $5,000,000.
  (11) Rehabilitation and Expansion of Communications Duct Banks, Kennedy
  Space Center, $1,500,000.
  (12) Replacement of Central Plant Chilled Water Equipment, Johnson Space
  Center, $4,000,000.
  (13) Restoration of Underground Communications Distribution System,
  Stennis Space Center, $2,200,000.
  (14) Restoration/Modernization of Electrical Distribution System, Goddard
  Space Flight Center, $4,500,000.
  (15) Modernization of Unitary Plan Wind Tunnel Complex, Ames Research
  Center, $8,000,000.
  (16) Modifications to 14- by 22-foot Subsonic Wind Tunnel, Langley Research
  Center, $2,200,000.
  (17) Repair and Modernization of the 12-foot Pressure Wind Tunnel, Ames
  Research Center, $21,400,000.
  (18) Rehabilitation of Icing Research Tunnel, Lewis Research Center,
  $2,700,000.
  (19) Modernization of 16-foot Transonic Tunnel, Langley Research Center,
  $3,600,000.
  (20) Rehabilitation of Central Air System, Lewis Research Center,
  $12,200,000.
  (21) Construction of 34-meter Multifrequency Antenna, Canberra, Australia,
  Jet Propulsion Laboratory, $15,600,000.
  (22) Construction of 34-meter Multifrequency Antenna, Madrid, Spain,
  Jet Propulsion Laboratory, $16,200,000.
  (23) Restoration and Modernization of Infrared Telescope Facility, Mauna
  Kea, Hawaii, $2,000,000.
  (24) Construction of Earth Observing System Data Information System Facility,
  Goddard Space Flight Center, $22,300,000.
  (25) Construction of Advanced Solid Rocket Motor Facilities (various
  locations), $165,000,000.
  (26) Repair of facilities at various locations, not in excess of $1,000,000
  per project, $31,900,000.
  (27) Rehabilitation and modification of facilities at various locations,
  not in excess of $1,000,000 per project, $34,000,000.
  (28) Minor construction of new facilities and additions to existing
  facilities at various locations, not in excess of $750,000 per project,
  $14,000,000.
  (29) Environmental Compliance and Restoration Program, $40,000,000.
  (30) Facility Planning and Design, $26,700,000.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (30), the total amount authorized to
be appropriated under this subsection shall not exceed $479,200,000.
  (d) RESEARCH AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to become available
  October 1, 1992, for `Research and Program Management' $1,654,000,000.
  (e) INSPECTOR GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  National Aeronautics and Space Administration to become available October 1,
  1992, for `Inspector General' $15,900,000.
  (f) REPORTS ON NEW LAUNCH SYSTEM AND EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLES- (1)
  Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator
  of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (hereinafter referred
  to as the `Administrator') shall submit to Congress a report setting forth
  requirements for a New Launch System, including--
  (A) a comparison of the New Launch System to existing launch systems in
  terms of cost, operability, safety, resilience and robustness, and ability
  to compete in the world launch market;
  (B) a cost/benefits analysis and 10-year life cycle cost estimate of
  the New Launch System, including development costs to be borne by each
  participating agency, and expected operating costs;
  (C) a payload traffic model, including commercial and both civil government
  and military payloads in production as of the date of enactment of this
  Act, those approved by Congress as of the date of enactment of this Act,
  and those expected to be requested of Congress;
  (D) a technology development plan, including--
  (i) a summary of high-risk technologies that will lower life-cycle costs;
  (ii) specific benchmarks which can validate the achievement of such
  technological goals at discrete programmatic milestones during the
  development phase of the program; and
  (iii) an indication of how the accomplishment of technological milestones
  will relate to the achievement of overall system performance during the
  operational phase;
  (E) an implementation plan describing how the New Launch System will be
  phased into operational usage at the National Launch Ranges and the overlap
  with existing systems at those Ranges; and
  (F) a detailed comparison, including specific cost, payload, and risk
  assessments, of the New Launch System to other potential launch technologies,
  whose services could be procured in a commercial manner by the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  (2) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on possible steps to
  improve the efficiency and availability of United States expendable launch
  vehicles, including Scout, Delta, Atlas, and Titan, through modernization
  of facilities, infrastructure improvements, improved management, new or
  modified procedures, and otherwise.
  (g) EARTH OBSERVING SYSTEM- (1) The Administrator shall carry out an Earth
  Observing System program that addresses the highest priority international
  climate change research goals as defined by the Committee on Earth and
  Environmental Sciences and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.
  (2)(A) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Administrator shall submit to Congress a plan which will ensure that the
  highest priority measurements are maintained on schedule to the greatest
  extent practicable while lower priority measurements are deferred, deleted,
  or obtained through other means.
  (B) Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Core
  System of the Earth Observing System Data and Information System, the
  Administrator shall submit to Congress a Development Plan which--
  (i) identifies the highest risk elements of the development effort and the
  key advanced technologies required to significantly increase scientific
  productivity;
  (ii) provides a plan for the development of one or more prototype systems
  for use in reducing the development risk of critical system elements and
  obtaining feedback for scientific users;
  (iii) provides a plan for research into key advanced technologies;
  (iv) identifies sufficient resources for carrying out the Development
  Plan; and
  (v) identifies how the Earth Observing System Data Information System
  will connect to and utilize other federally-supported research networks,
  including the National Research and Education Network.
  (h) REPORT ON SPACE TRANSPORTATION ENHANCEMENT- By September 30, 1993,
  the Administrator shall submit to Congress a full report outlining the
  specific actions recommended under subsection (b)(2).
TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. USE OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN ITEMS AND GRANTS.
  (a) AUTHORIZED USES- Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Research
  and Development' and `Space Flight, Control, and Data Communications'
  may be used for--
  (1) any items of a capital nature (other than acquisition of land) which
  may be required at locations  other than installations of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration for the performance of research and
  development contracts; and
  (2) grants to nonprofit institutions of higher education, or to nonprofit
  organizations whose primary purpose is the conduct of scientific research,
  for purchase or construction of additional research facilities.
  (b) VESTING OF TITLE; GRANT CONDITIONS- Title to facilities described
  in subsection (a)(2) shall be vested in the United States unless the
  Administrator determines that the national program of aeronautical and
  space activities will best be served by vesting title in the grantee
  institution or organization. Each grant under subsection (a)(2) shall
  be made under such conditions as the Administrator shall determine to be
  required to ensure that the United States will receive therefrom benefits
  adequate to justify the making of that grant.
  (c) LIMITATION- None of the funds appropriated for `Research and Development'
  and `Space Flight, Control, and Data Communications' pursuant to this Act
  may be used in accordance with this section for the construction of any
  facility, the estimated cost of which, including collateral equipment,
  exceeds $750,000 unless the Administrator has notified the Committee on
  Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee
  on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives of the
  nature, location, and estimated cost of such facility.
SEC. 202. AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATED AMOUNTS.
  Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Research and Development', for
  `Space Flight, Control, and Data Communications', or for `Construction of
  Facilities' may remain available until expended. Contracts may be entered
  into under `Inspector General' and `Research and Program Management' for
  training, investigations, and costs associated with personnel relocation
  and for other services provided during the fiscal year following the fiscal
  year in which funds are appropriated.
SEC. 203. LIMITED USE OF FUNDS.
  (a) USE FOR SCIENTIFIC CONSULTATIONS OR EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSES-
  Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Research and Development'
  may be used, but not to exceed $35,000, for scientific consultations or
  extraordinary expenses upon the approval or authority of the Administrator,
  and the Administrator's determination shall be final and conclusive upon
  the accounting officers of the Government.
  (b) USE FOR FACILITIES- (1) Appropriations authorized under this Act
  for `Research and Development' and `Space Flight, Control, and Data
  Communications' may be used for the construction of new facilities and
  additions to, repair of, rehabilitation of, or modification of existing
  facilities, except that the cost of each such project, including collateral
  equipment, shall not exceed $200,000.
  (2) Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Research and Development'
  and `Space Flight, Control, and Data Communications' may be used for
  unforeseen programmatic facility project needs, except that the cost of
  each such project, including collateral equipment, shall not exceed $750,000.
  (3) Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Research and Development'
  may be used for repair, rehabilitation, or modification of facilities
  controlled by the General Services Administration, except that the cost
  of each project, including collateral equipment, shall not exceed $500,000.
SEC. 204. REPROGRAMMING FOR TRANSATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY.
  The Administrator may reprogram up to $45,000,000 of the amount authorized
  for `Research and Development' for fiscal year 1993 to use for the purposes
  described in section 102(a)(13). No such funds may be obligated until
  a period of 30 days has passed after the Administrator has notified the
  Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
  Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives
  of such reprogramming.
SEC. 205. REPROGRAMMING FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES.
  Appropriations authorized under this Act for `Construction of Facilities'--
  (1) in the discretion of the Administrator or the Administrator's designee,
  may be varied upward by 10 percent; or
  (2) following a report by the Administrator or the Administrator's
  designee to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
  Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
  Representatives on the circumstances of such action, may be varied upward
  by 25 percent, to meet unusual cost variations.
The total amount authorized to be appropriated for `Construction of Facilities'
shall not be increased as a result of actions authorized under paragraphs
(1) and (2).
SEC. 206. SPECIAL REPROGRAMMING AUTHORITY FOR CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES.
  Where the Administrator determines that new developments or scientific
  or engineering changes in the national program of aeronautical and
  space activities have occurred; and that such changes require the use
  of additional funds for the purposes of construction, expansion, or
  modification of facilities at any location; and that deferral of such action
  until the enactment of the next authorization Act would be inconsistent
  with the interest of the Nation in aeronautical and space activities; the
  Administrator may transfer not to exceed one-half of 1 percent of the funds
  appropriated pursuant to section 102 (a) and (b) to the `Construction of
  Facilities' appropriation for such purposes. The Administrator may also
  use up to $10,000,000 of the amounts authorized under section 102(c) for
  such purposes. The funds so made available pursuant to this section may be
  expended to acquire, construct, convert, rehabilitate, or install permanent
  or temporary public works, including land acquisition, site preparation,
  appurtenances, utilities, and equipment. No such funds may be obligated
  until a period of thirty days has passed after the Administrator or the
  Administrator's designee has transmitted to the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science,
  Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a written report
  describing the nature of the construction, its cost, and the reasons
  therefor.
SEC. 207. CONSIDERATION BY COMMITTEES.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act--
  (1) no amount appropriated pursuant to this Act may be used for any program
  deleted by the Congress from requests as originally made to either the
  Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate or the
  Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives;
  (2) no amount appropriated pursuant to this Act may be used for any program
  in excess of the amount actually authorized for that particular program
  by section 102 (a), (b), and (d); and
  (3) no amount appropriated pursuant to this Act may be used for any program
  which has not been presented to either such committee,
unless a period of 30 days has passed after the receipt, by each such
committee, of notice given by the Administrator or the Administrator's
designee containing a full and complete statement of the action proposed
to be taken and the facts and circumstances relied upon in support of
such proposed action. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration
shall keep the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
Representatives fully and currently informed with respect to all activities
and responsibilities within the jurisdiction of those committees. Any Federal
department, agency, or independent establishment shall furnish any information
requested by either committee relating to any such activity or responsibility.
SEC. 208. LIMITATION ON OBLIGATION OF UNAUTHORIZED APPROPRIATIONS.
  Not later than 30 days after the later of the date of enactment of an Act
  making appropriations to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  for fiscal year 1993 or the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator
  shall submit a report to Congress and to the Comptroller General which
  specifies--
  (1) the portion of such appropriations which are for programs, projects,
  or activities not specifically authorized under this Act, or which are in
  excess of amounts authorized for the relevant program, project, or activity
  under this Act; and
  (2) the portion of such appropriations which are specifically authorized
  under this Act.
SEC. 209. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION.
  It is the sense of the Congress that it is in the national interest that
  consideration be given to geographical distribution of Federal research
  funds whenever feasible, and that the National Aeronautics and Space
  Administration should explore ways and means of distributing its research
  and development funds whenever feasible.
SEC. 210. TRANSMISSION OF BUDGET ESTIMATES.
  The Administrator shall, at the time of submission of the President's
  annual budget, transmit to the Congress--
  (1) a five-year budget detailing the estimated development costs for each
  individual program under the jurisdiction of the National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration for which development costs are expected to exceed
  $200,000,000; and
  (2) an estimate of the life-cycle costs associated with each such program.
SEC. 211. COMMERCIAL SPACE LAUNCH ACT AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 24 of the Commercial Space Launch Act (49 App. U.S.C. 2623)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `1992' and all that follows through `(2)' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `1993.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `There are authorized to be
  appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 1993 $4,900,000 to carry out
  this Act. The Secretary may not collect any user fees for any regulatory
  or other services conducted pursuant to this Act, unless specifically
  authorized by this Act.'.
SEC. 212. NATIONAL SPACE COUNCIL AUTHORIZATION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the activities of
  the National Space Council established by section 501 of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1989 (42
  U.S.C. 2471), $1,598,000 for fiscal year 1993, of which not more than $1,000
  shall be available for official reception and representation expenses. The
  National Space Council shall reimburse other agencies for not less than
  one-half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals detailed to it.
SEC. 213. OFFICE OF SPACE COMMERCE AUTHORIZATION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce for
  the Office of Space Commerce $515,000 for fiscal year 1993.
SEC. 214. LAUNCH TECHNOLOGY STUDIES.
  (a) REPORT ON SINGLE STAGE ROCKET TECHNOLOGY FLIGHT TEST PROGRAM- Not later
  than 45 days following completion of the Strategic Defense Initiative
  Organization's Single Stage Rocket Technology flight test program, the
  Administrator shall submit a report to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
  and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space,
  and Technology of the House of Representatives providing an independent
  analysis of the program and the potential application of this launch
  technology to the civil space program.
  (b) NATIONAL AEROSPACE TRANSPORTATION TECHNOLOGY PLAN- Not later than 180
  days after the date of enactment of this Act, the National Space Council,
  in consultation with the Administrator, shall submit to the Committee on
  Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on
  Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a national
  aerospace transportation technology plan. The plan shall consider--
  (1) the needs of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and
  other agencies for a hypersonic research flight vehicle, including the
  National Aerospace Plan; and
  (2) the relationship between the National Aerospace Plane and the supersonic
  High Speed Civil Transport, the Single Stage Rocket Technology Program,
  nuclear propulsion concepts, and other proposed aeronautical and space
  transportation technology concepts.
SEC. 215. SPACE AGENCY FORUM ON INTERNATIONAL SPACE YEAR.
  (a) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of Congress that--
  (1) it is in the national interest that the Space Agency Forum on
  International Space Year (in this section referred to as `SAFISY')
  maintain its facilitating role in the coordination of current and planned
  complementary Earth and space science research findings so as to maximize
  scientific return;
  (2) the initiative for multilateral scientific cooperation among space
  agencies and international scientific organizations undertaken by SAFISY
  should continue beyond 1992, the International Space Year; and
  (3) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should pursue implementation of
  proposals for long-term multilateral scientific cooperation developed
  during the International Space Year, notably those contained in the report
  of the second Pacific ISY Conference.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- At the earliest practicable date, but not later
  than September 1, 1993, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  shall submit to Congress its plan for continuing SAFISY activities,
  with particular reference to planned coordination of current and future
  complementary Earth and space science research findings, and other acts
  of multilateral scientific cooperation.
SEC. 216. CRAF/CASSINI MISSION.
  Section 103(a)(1)(S) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-611; 104 Stat. 3192),
  is repealed.
SEC. 217. COMPUTER NETWORKS.
  Section 3 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1862)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(g) In carrying out subsection (a)(4), the Foundation is authorized
  to foster and support access by the research and education communities
  to computer networks which may be used substantially for purposes in
  addition to research and education in the sciences and engineering, if
  the additional uses will tend to increase the overall capabilities of the
  networks to support such research and education activities.'.
SEC. 218. SPACE COOPERATION WITH THE FORMER SOVIET REPUBLICS.
  (a) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within one year after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report describing--
  (1) the opportunities for increased space related trade with the independent
  states of the former Soviet Union;
  (2) a technology procurement plan for identifying and evaluating all
  unique space hardware, space technology, and space services available to
  the United States from the independent states of the former Soviet Union,
  specifically including those technologies the National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration has identified as high priority in its Space Research
  and Technology Integrated Technology Plan.
  (3) the trade missions carried out pursuant to subsection (c), including
  the private participation and the results of such missions;
  (4) the offices and accounts of the National Aeronautics and Space
  Administration to which expenses for either cooperative activities or
  procurement actions, involving the independent states of the former Soviet
  Union, are charged;
  (5) any barriers, regulatory or practical, that inhibit space-related
  trade between the United States and the independent states of the former
  Soviet Union, including such barriers in either the United States or the
  independent states; and
  (6) any anticompetitive issues raised by a potential acquisition.
  (b) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- If any United States Government agency denies
  a request for a license or other approval that may be necessary to conduct
  discussions on space-related matters with the independent states of the
  former Soviet Union, that agency shall immediately notify the Speaker
  of the House of Representatives and President of the Senate. Each such
  notification shall include a statement of the reasons for the denial.
  (c) ROLE OF THE OFFICE OF SPACE COMMERCE- The Office of Space Commerce of
  the Department of Commerce is authorized and encouraged to conduct trade
  missions to appropriate independent states of the former Soviet Union for the
  purpose of familiarizing United States aerospace industry representatives
  with space hardware, space technologies, and space services that may be
  available from the independent states, and with the business practices
  and overall business climate in the independent states. The Office of
  Space Commerce shall also advise the Administrator as to the impact on
  United States industry of each potential acquisition of space hardware,
  space technology, or space services from the independent states of the
  former Soviet Union, specifically including any anticompetitive issues
  the Office may observe.
SEC. 219. USE OF DOMESTIC PRODUCTS.
  (a) COMPLIANCE WITH BUY AMERICAN ACT- (1) Except as provided in paragraph
  (2), the head of each agency which conducts procurements shall ensure that
  such procurements are conducted in compliance with sections 2 through 4 of
  the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a through 10c, popularly known as the
  `Buy American Act').
  (2) This subsection shall apply only to procurements made for which--
  (A) amounts are authorized by this Act to be made available; and
  (B) solicitations for bids are issued after the date of enactment of
  this Act.
  (3) The Administrator, before January 1, 1994, shall report to Congress on
  procurements covered by this subsection of products that are not domestic
  products.
  (b) INAPPLICABILITY IN CASE OF VIOLATION OF INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENT-
  This section shall not apply to the extent that the United States Trade
  Representative determines that an award under this section would be in
  violation of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or an international
  agreement to which the United States is a party.
  (c) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section, the term `domestic
  product' means a product--
  (1) that is manufactured or produced in the United States; and
  (2) at least 50 percent of the cost of the articles, materials, or supplies
  of which are mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States.
SEC. 220. USE OF ABANDONED AND UNDERUTILIZED BUILDINGS, GROUNDS, AND
FACILITIES.
  (a) GENERAL RULE- In meeting the needs of the National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration for additional facilities, the Administrator shall
  investigate the use of abandoned and underutilized buildings, grounds,
  and facilities in depressed communities that can be converted to National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration facilities and shall prioritize such
  uses where cost effective, as determined by the Administrator.
  (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `depressed
  communities' means rural and urban communities that are relatively depressed,
  in terms of age of housing, extent of poverty, growth of per capita income,
  extent of unemployment, job lag, or surplus labor.
SEC. 221. STUDY OF USES OF TECHNICAL INFORMATION.
  The Administrator shall undertake a study of the extent to which technical
  information developed by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
  by itself or in cooperation with industry, academic, or other government
  partners or contractors, is brought to market by foreign aerospace firms
  or their subcontractors more quickly than by United States companies. The
  Administrator shall report the results of such study to Congress no later
  than October 1, 1993.
SEC. 222. INSTITUTE FOR AVIATION WEATHER PREDICTION.
  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  shall establish an Institute for Aviation Weather Prediction. The Institute
  shall provide forecasts, weather warnings, and other weather services to
  the United States aviation community. The Institute shall expand upon the
  activities of the aviation unit currently at the National Severe Storms
  Forecast Center in Kansas City, Missouri, and shall be established in the
  Kansas City Missouri area. The Administrator of the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration shall provide a full and fair opportunity for
  employees at the National Severe Storms Center to assume comparable duties
  and responsibilities within the Institute.
TITLE III--EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM TO STIMULATE COMPETITIVE RESEARCH ON SPACE
AND AERONAUTICS
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive
  Research on Space and Aeronautics Act'.
SEC. 302. FINDINGS.
  Congress finds that--
  (1) the report of the Advisory Committee on the Future of the United States
  Space Program has provided a framework within which a consensus on the
  goals of the space program can be developed;
  (2) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's space science and
  applications, aeronautical research and technology, and space research
  and technology programs will serve as the fulcrum for future initiatives
  by the United States in civil space and aviation;
  (3) colleges and universities in many States are currently not able to
  compete successfully for research grants awarded by the National Aeronautics
  and Space Administration through its space science and applications,
  aeronautical research and technology, and space research and technology
  programs;
  (4) balanced programs of space science and applications, aeronautical
  research and technology, and space research and technology should include
  initiatives designed to foster competitive research capacity in all
  geographic areas of the Nation; and
  (5) by strengthening the competitive research capacity in those geographic
  areas of the Nation which are not currently fully competitive, the education
  and training of scientists and engineers important to the future of the
  United States civil space and aviation programs will be fostered.
SEC. 303. POLICY.
  It is the policy of the United States that--
  (1) the Administrator, in planning for national programs in space science and
  applications, aeronautical research, space flight, and exploration, should
  ensure the resilience of the space and aeronautics research infrastructure;
  (2) a stable and balanced program of space science and applications,
  aeronautical research and technology, and space research and technology
  should include programs to assure that geographic areas of the United States
  that currently do not successfully participate in competitive space and
  aeronautical research activities are enabled to become more competitive; and
  (3) programs to improve competitive capabilities should be a part of the
  research and the educational activities of the National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration.
SEC. 304. REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) COMPETITION- Making use of the existing infrastructure established
  in eligible States by the National Science Foundation, the Administrator
  shall conduct a merit grant competition among the eligible States in areas
  of research important to the mission of the National Aeronautics and Space
  Administration. With respect to a grant application by an eligible State,
  the Administrator shall consider--
  (1) the application's merit and relevance to the mission of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration;
  (2) the potential for the grant to serve as a catalyst to enhance the
  ability of researchers in the State to become more competitive for regular
  National Aeronautics and Space Administration funding;
  (3) the potential for the grant to improve the environment for science,
  mathematics, and engineering education in the State; and
  (4) the need to assure the maximum distribution of grants among eligible
  States, consistent with merit.
  (b) SUPPLEMENTAL GRANTS- The Administrator shall endeavor, where appropriate,
  to supplement grants made under subsection (a) with such grants for
  fellowships, traineeships, equipment, or instrumentation as are available.
  (c) ELIGIBLE STATES DEFINED- In this section, the term `eligible State'
  means a State designated by the Administrator as eligible to compete in
  the Foundation's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research.
SEC. 305. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  In carrying out the programs listed in section 102(a), the Administrator
  should ensure that up to $10,000,000 from the appropriations authorized
  for `Research and Development', for fiscal year 1993 are also used for
  purposes of establishing and developing an Experimental Program to Stimulate
  Competitive Research on Space and Aeronautics.
TITLE IV--HIGH RISK RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 401. ACQUISITION POLICY ASSESSMENT.
  (a) ASSESSMENT- Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Administrator, in coordination as necessary with the Office of Federal
  Procurement Policy and the Federal Acquisition Regulation Council, shall
  carry out an assessment of the allocation of risk between the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration and its contractors for future research
  and development contracts in order to identify options for allocating risk
  for correction of defects in materials and workmanship or other failures
  to conform to contract requirements.
  (b) CONTENTS- In carrying out the assessment required by subsection (a),
  the Administrator shall consider--
  (1) technical uncertainty, market dynamics, and equity to both the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration and the contractor community;
  (2) the use of positive fee incentives reflecting the level of cost,
  schedule, and performance risk accepted by the contractor;
  (3) the use of negative fee incentives, including provisions providing for
  less than full cost recovery for work determined to be defective in materials
  or workmanship or which otherwise fail to conform to contract requirements;
  (4) the appropriate use of rollovers;
  (5)  the  appropriate  use  of  retroactive  award  fee  adjustments;
  (6) the appropriate use of value engineering;
  (7) the use of warranties to ensure that the end product or a specified
  subproduct of a contract meets the performance requirements of a contract;
  (8) the recovery of costs for the replacement or correction of articles
  which are defective in materials or workmanship, or which otherwise fail
  to conform to contract requirements; and
  (9) the appropriate use of performance-based contracting.
SEC. 402. PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS.
  Within one hundred and eighty days after the completion of the acquisition
  policy assessment required by section 401, the Administrator, in
  coordination as necessary with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy,
  consistent with section 15 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
  Act (41 U.S.C. 413), and the Federal Acquisition Regulation Council,
  shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding under section 22 of such Act
  (41 U.S.C. 418b), on the administration of research and development
  contracts which propose specific changes to National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration Procurement Regulations and, as necessary, Federal
  Acquisition Regulations to consider implementing the recommendations of
  the assessment required by section 401, as well as--
  (1) the establishment of policies and procedures for the use of
  performance-based contracts, incorporating positive and/or negative fee
  incentives to the maximum extent practicable; and
  (2) the establishment of policies and procedures--
  (A) for limiting the use of clauses of the Federal Acquisition Regulations
  which otherwise obligate the Government to pay the cost of correction of
  defects in materials and workmanship and work which otherwise fails to
  conform to contract requirements, and eliminating the use of such clauses
  where the defect or failure is within the control of the contractor; and
  (B) to provide for less than full cost recovery for work determined to be
  defective in materials and workmanship or which otherwise fails to conform
  to contract requirements.
SEC. 403. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this title--
  (1) the term `performance-based contracting' means structuring all aspects
  of an acquisition around the purpose of the work to be performed as opposed
  to either the manner by which the work is to be performed or broad statements
  of work;
  (2) the term `positive fee incentive' means that element of the potential
  total remuneration that a contractor may receive for contract performance
  over and above the allowable costs;
  (3) the term `negative fee incentive' means a rebate payable to the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration by a contracting party whose deliverable
  item or service is not in conformance with contract requirements or is
  otherwise deemed to be defective work; and
  (4) the term `rollover' means the act of reallocating any positive fee
  incentives not earned by a contractor due to less than excellent performance
  to subsequent opportunities for award available in the contract.
TITLE V--COMMERCIAL SPACE COMPETITIVENESS
SEC. 501. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) commercial activities of the private sector have substantially
  contributed to the strength of both the United States space program and
  the national economy;
  (2) a robust United States space transportation capability remains a vital
  cornerstone of the United States space program;
  (3) the availability of commercial launch services is essential for the
  continued growth of the United States commercial space sector;
  (4) a timely extension of the excess third party claims payment provisions
  of the Commercial Space Launch Act is appropriate and necessary to enable
  the private sector to continue covering maximum probable liability risks
  while protecting the private sector from uninsurable levels of liability
  which could hinder international competitiveness;
  (5) a program to demonstrate how recipients of Federal grants can purchase
  launch services directly from the private sector has the potential to
  improve the capabilities of the United States commercial launch industry;
  (6) improvements and additions to the Nation's space transportation
  infrastructure contribute to a robust and cost effective space transportation
  capability for both public sector and private sector users;
  (7) private sector use of available Government facilities on a reimbursable
  basis contributes to a stronger commercial space sector;
  (8) the Federal Government should purchase space goods and services which
  are commercially available, or could be made available commercially in
  response to a Government procurement request, whenever such goods or
  services meet Government mission requirements in a cost effective manner;
  (9) it is appropriate for the Government to act as an anchor tenant for
  commercial space development projects which have a reasonable potential
  to develop non-Federal markets and which meet Federal needs in a cost
  effective manner; and
  (10) the provision of compensation to commercial providers of space goods and
  services for termination of contracts at the convenience of the Government
  assists in enabling the private sector to invest in space activities which
  are initially dependent on Government purchases.
SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purpose of this title--
  (1) the term `agency' means an executive agency as defined by section 105
  of title 5, United States Code;
  (2) the term `anchor tenancy' means an arrangement in which the United
  States Government agrees to procure sufficient quantities of a commercial
  space product or service needed to meet Government mission requirements
  so that a commercial venture is made viable;
  (3) the term `commercial' means having--
  (A) private capital at risk, and
  (B) primary financial and management responsibility for the activity reside
  with the private sector;
  (4) the term `cost effective' means costing no more than the available
  alternatives, determined by a comparison of all related direct and
  indirect costs including, in the case of Government costs, applicable
  Government labor and overhead costs as well as contractor charges, and
  taking into account the ability of each alternative to accommodate mission
  requirements as well as the related factors of risk, reliability, schedule,
  and technical performance;
  (5) the term `launch' means to place, or attempt to place, a launch vehicle
  and its payload, if any, in a suborbital trajectory, in Earth orbit in
  outer space, or otherwise in outer space;
  (6) the term `launch services' means activities involved in the preparation
  of a launch vehicle and its payload for launch and the conduct of a launch;
  (7) the term `launch support facilities' means facilities located at launch
  sites or launch ranges that are required to support launch activities,
  including launch vehicle assembly, launch vehicle operations and control,
  communications, flight safety functions, and payload operations, control,
  and processing.
  (8) the term `launch vehicle' means any vehicle constructed for the purpose
  of operating in or placing a payload in, outer space or in suborbital
  trajectories, and includes components of that vehicle;
  (9) the term `payload' means an object which a person undertakes to launch,
  and includes subcomponents of the launch vehicle specifically designed or
  adapted for that object;
  (10) the term `payload integration services' means activities involved
  in integrating multiple payloads into a single payload for launch or
  integrating a payload with a launch vehicle;
  (11) the term `space recovery support facilities' means facilities required
  to support activities related to the recovery of payloads returned from space
  to a space recovery site, including operations and control, communications,
  flight safety functions, and payload processing;
  (12) the term `space transportation infrastructure' means facilities,
  associated equipment, and real property, including launch sites, launch
  support facilities, space recovery sites, and space recovery support
  facilities, required to perform launch or space recovery activities;
  (13) the term `State' means the several States, the District of Columbia,
  Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam,
  the Northern Mariana Islands, and any other commonwealth, territory,
  or possession of the United States; and
  (14) the term `United States' means the States, collectively.
SEC. 503. EXTENSION OF GOVERNMENT PAYMENT OF EXCESS THIRD PARTY CLAIMS.
  Section 16(b)(5) of the Commercial Space Launch Act (49
  App. U.S.C. 2615(b)(5)) is amended by striking `the date that is five
  years following the date of enactment of the Commercial Space Launch Act
  Amendments of 1988' and inserting in lieu thereof `January 1, 2000'.
SEC. 504. LAUNCH VOUCHER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  (a) COMMERCIAL SPACE VOUCHER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM; EFFECTIVE PERIOD- The
  Administrator shall establish a demonstration program to award vouchers for
  the payment of commercial launch services and payload integration services
  for the purpose of launching payloads funded by the Office of Commercial
  Programs within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to
  become effective October 1, 1993. Such program shall not be effective
  after September 30, 1995.
  (b) AWARD OF VOUCHERS- The Administrator shall award vouchers under
  subsection (a) to appropriate individuals as a part of grants administered
  by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for the launch of--
  (1) payloads to be placed in suborbital trajectories; and
  (2) small payloads to be placed in orbit.
  (c) ASSUMPTION OF CERTAIN RESPONSIBILITIES- In carrying out the demonstration
  program established under subsection (a), the Administrator, in awarding
  vouchers, is limited to the launch of payloads funded by the Office of
  Commercial Programs within the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
  (d) ASSISTANCE- The Administrator may provide voucher award recipients
  with such assistance, including contract formulation and technical support
  during the proposal evaluation, as may be necessary, to ensure the purchase
  of cost effective and reasonably reliable commercial launch services and
  payload integration services.
  (e) REPORT- The Administrator shall conduct an ongoing review of the
  program established under this section, and shall, not later than January
  31, 1995, report to Congress the results of such a review, together with
  recommendations for further action relating to the program.
SEC. 505. SPACE TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE MATCHING GRANTS.
  (a) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `commercial space transportation infrastructure development'
  may include--
  (A) the construction or improvement of space transportation infrastructure
  within the United States;
  (B) the engineering and designing of such space transportation
  infrastructure; and
  (C) technical studies to define how new or enhanced space transportation
  infrastructure can best meet the needs of the United States commercial
  space transportation industry;
  (2) the term `project' means a project (or separate projects submitted
  together) for the accomplishment of commercial space transportation
  infrastructure development, including the combined submission of all
  projects to be undertaken at a particular site in a fiscal year;
  (3) the term `project grant' means a grant of funds by the Secretary to
  a sponsor for the accomplishment of one or more projects;
  (4) the term `public agency' means a State or any agency of a State, a
  municipality or other political subdivision of a State, or a tax-supported
  organization;
  (5) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Transportation; and
  (6) the term `sponsor' means any public agency which, either individually
  or jointly with one or more other such entities, submits to the Secretary,
  in accordance with this section, an application for financial assistance
  for commercial space transportation infrastructure development.
  (b) ESTABLISHMENT OF GRANT PROGRAM- In order to ensure the resiliency of the
  Nation's space transportation infrastructure, the Secretary is authorized
  to make project grants to sponsors in accordance with this section. There
  is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for such grants beginning
  after September 30, 1992. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
  (c) SELECTION OF PROJECTS- (1) In selecting projects for grants under
  subsection (b), the Secretary shall consider--
  (A) the contribution of the proposed project to industry capabilities
  which serve Federal space transportation needs;
  (B) the extent of industry's financial contribution to the proposed project;
  (C) the extent of industry participation in the proposed project;
  (D) the positive impact of the proposed project on the international
  competitiveness of the United States space transportation industry;
  (E) the extent of state contributions to the proposed project; and
  (F) the impact of the proposed project on launch operations and other
  activities at Federal launch ranges.
  (2) The Secretary shall consult with the Department of Defense, the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other appropriate Federal agencies
  concerning paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(F).
  (3) The Secretary shall give preference to those applications with greater
  levels of industry financial contributions, all other factors being equal.
  (d) SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF PROJECT GRANT APPLICATIONS- (1) Any sponsor of
  a project may submit to the Secretary a project grant application for one
  or more projects, in a form containing such information as the Secretary
  may prescribe, setting forth the project proposed to be undertaken.
  (2) No project grant application shall be approved by the Secretary unless
  the Secretary is satisfied that--
  (A) the project will contribute to the purposes of this section;
  (B) the project is reasonably consistent with plans (existing at the time
  of approval of the project) of public agencies which are authorized by
  the State in which such project is located and which are responsible for
  the development of the area surrounding the project site;
  (C) if the application proposes to use Federal Government property, the
  specific consent of the appropriate Federal agency head has been obtained;
  (D) the project will be completed without undue delay;
  (E) the sponsor which submitted the project grant application has the
  legal authority to engage in the project as proposed; and
  (F) all additional requirements prescribed by the Secretary have been met.
  (e) ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS- (1) It is declared to be national policy
  that projects authorized pursuant to this section shall provide for the
  protection and enhancement of the natural resources and the quality of the
  environment of the Nation. In implementing this policy, the Secretary shall
  consult with the Secretary of the Interior and the Administrator of the
  Environmental Protection Agency with regard to any project included in a
  project grant application which may have a significant impact on natural
  resources including, but not limited to, fish and wildlife, natural,
  scenic, and recreational assets, water and air quality, and other factors
  affecting the environment, and shall authorize no such project found to have
  a significant adverse effect unless the Secretary shall render a finding,
  in writing, following a full and complete review, which shall be a matter
  of public record, that no feasible and prudent alternative exists and that
  all reasonable steps have been taken to minimize such adverse effect.
  (2)(A) No project grant application may be approved by the Secretary
  unless the sponsor of the project certifies to the Secretary that there
  has been afforded the opportunity for public hearing for the purpose of
  considering the economic, social, and environmental effects of the project
  and its consistency with the goals of objectives of such planning as had
  been carried out by the community.
  (B) When hearings are held under paragraph (2)(A), the project sponsor
  shall submit a copy of the transcript to the Secretary.
  (3) No project grant application may be approved unless the Governor of
  the State in which such project is to be located certifies in writing to
  the Secretary that there is reasonable assurance that the project will be
  located, designed, constructed, and operated so as to comply with applicable
  air and water quality standards. In any case where such standards have
  not been promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
  Agency, certification shall be obtained from such Administrator. Notice
  of certification or refusal to certify shall be provided within 60 days
  after the project application has been received by the Secretary.
  (4) The Secretary shall condition approval of any such project grant
  application on compliance during construction and operation with applicable
  air and water quality standards.
  (5) The Secretary is authorized in connection with any project to require
  a certification from a sponsor that such sponsor will comply with all of
  the statutory and administrative requirements imposed on such sponsor under
  this section in connection with such project. Acceptance by the Secretary
  of a certification from a sponsor may be rescinded by the Secretary at any
  time. Nothing in this paragraph shall affect or discharge any responsibility
  or obligation of the Secretary under any other Federal law, including,
  but not limited to, the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
  U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), section 4(f) of the Department of Transportation
  Act (49 App. U.S.C. 1652), title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42
  U.S.C. 2000d), title VIII of the Act of April 11, 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3601 et
  seq.), and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition
  Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).
  (f) ALLOCATION OF PROJECT COSTS- (1) The project grant for any project under
  this section shall not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of such project.
  (2) No project grant shall be awarded under this section for any project
  for which less than 10 percent of the total cost of such project will be
  borne by the private sector.
SEC. 506. IDENTIFICATION OF LAUNCH SUPPORT FACILITIES.
  (a) IDENTIFICATION- The Administrator and the Secretary of Defense,
  as appropriate, in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation,
  shall conduct an inventory and identify all launch support facilities
  owned by the United States Government. To the extent practicable, the
  Administrator and the Secretary of Defense shall also identify any launch
  support facilities which could be made available for use by non-Federal
  entities on a reimbursable basis without interfering with Federal activities.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Administrator and the Secretary of Defense each shall
  submit to Congress a report containing the results of the identification
  required under subsection (a). Portions of such report may be classified
  and protected from public disclosure if such classification is necessary
  to protect national security.
SEC. 507. ANCHOR TENANCY AND TERMINATION LIABILITY.
  (a) ANCHOR TENANCY CONTRACTS- Subject to appropriations, the Administrator
  or the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  may enter into multiyear anchor tenancy contracts for the purchase of a
  good or service if the appropriate Administrator determines that--
  (1) the good or service meets the mission requirements of the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration, as appropriate;
  (2) the commercially procured good or service is cost effective;
  (3) the good or service is procured through a competitive process;
  (4) existing or potential customers for the good or service other than
  the United States Government have been specifically identified;
  (5) the long-term viability of the venture is not dependent upon a continued
  Government market or other nonreimbursable Government support; and
  (6) private capital is at risk in the venture.
  (b) TERMINATION LIABILITY- (1) Contracts entered into under subsection
  (a) may provide for the payment of termination liability in the event that
  the Government terminates such contracts for its convenience.
  (2) Contracts that provide for the payment of termination liability,
  as described in paragraph (1), shall include a fixed schedule of such
  termination liability payments. Liability under such contracts shall not
  exceed the total payments which the Government would have made after the
  date of termination to purchase the good or service if the contract were
  not terminated.
  (3) Subject to appropriations, funds available for such termination
  liability payments may be used for purchase of the good or service upon
  successful delivery of the good or service pursuant to the contract. In
  such case, sufficient funds shall remain available to cover any remaining
  termination liability.
  (c) LIMITATIONS- (1) Contracts entered into under this section shall not
  exceed 10 years in duration.
  (2) Such contracts shall provide for delivery of the good or service on
  a firm, fixed price basis.
  (3) To the extent practicable, reasonable performance specifications shall
  be used to define technical requirements in such contracts.
  (4) In any such contract, the appropriate Administrator shall reserve the
  right to completely or partially terminate the contract without payment of
  such termination liability because of the contractor's actual or anticipated
  failure to perform its contractual obligations.
SEC. 508. USE OF GOVERNMENT FACILITIES.
  (a) AUTHORITY- Federal agencies, including the National Aeronautics and
  Space Administration and the Department of Defense, may allow non-Federal
  entities to use their space-related facilities on a reimbursable basis
  if the Administrator, the Secretary of Defense, or the appropriate agency
  head determines that--
  (1) the facilities will be used to support commercial space activities;
  (2) such use can be supported by existing or planned Federal resources;
  (3) such use is compatible with Federal activities;
  (4) equivalent commercial services are not available on reasonable terms; and
  (5) such use is consistent with public safety, national security, and
  international treaty obligations.
In carrying out paragraph (5), each agency head shall consult with appropriate
Federal officials.
  (b) REIMBURSEMENT PAYMENT- (1) The reimbursement referred to in subsection
  (a) may be an amount equal to the direct costs (including salaries of
  United States civilian and contractor personnel) incurred by the United
  States as a result of the use of such facilities by the private sector. For
  the purposes of this paragraph, the term `direct costs' means the actual
  costs that can be unambiguously associated with such use, and would not
  be borne by the United States Government in the absence of such use.
  (2) The amount of any payment received by the United States for use of
  facilities under this subsection shall be credited to the appropriation
  from which the cost of providing such facilities was paid.
SEC. 509. PROTECTION OF INFORMATION DEVELOPED UNDER SPACE ACT AGREEMENTS.
  Section 303 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958 (42
  U.S.C. 2454) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 303';
  (2) by striking `and (B)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(B)';
  (3) by inserting `, and (C) information described in subsection (b)' after
  `national security'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(b) The Administrator, for a period of up to 5 years after the development
  of information that results from activities conducted under an agreement
  entered into under section 203(c)(5) and (6) of this Act, and that would be
  a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged
  or confidential under the meaning of section 552(b)(4) of title 5, United
  States Code, if the information had been obtained from a non-Federal party
  participating in such an agreement, may provide appropriate protections
  against the dissemination of such information, including exemption from
  subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United States Code.'.
SEC. 510. COMMERCIAL SPACE ACHIEVEMENT AWARD.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a Commercial Space Achievement
  Award. The award shall consist of a medal, which shall be of such design
  and materials and bear such inscriptions as determined by the Secretary
  of Commerce. A cash prize may also be awarded if funding for the prize is
  available under subsection (d).
  (b) CRITERIA FOR AWARD- The Secretary of Commerce shall periodically make,
  and the Chairman of the National Space Council shall present, awards under
  this section to individuals, corporations, corporate divisions, or corporate
  subsidiaries substantially engaged in commercial space activities who in
  the opinion of the Secretary of Commerce best meet the following criteria:
  (1) For corporate entities, at least one-half of the revenues from the
  space-related activities of the corporation, division, or subsidiary is
  derived from sources other than the United States Government.
  (2) The activities and achievements of the individual, corporation,
  division, or subsidiary have substantially contributed to the United
  States gross national product and the stature of United States industry
  in international markets, with due consideration for both the economic
  magnitude and the technical quality of the activities and achievements.
  (3) The individual, corporation, division, or subsidiary has substantially
  advanced space technology and space applications directly related to
  commercial space activities.
  (c) LIMITATIONS- No individual or corporate entity may receive an award
  under this section more than once every 5 years.
  (d) FUNDING FOR AWARD- The Secretary of Commerce may seek and accept gifts
  of money from public and private sources for the purpose of making cash prize
  awards under this section. Such money may be used only for that purpose, only
  such money may be used for that purpose, and the Secretary of Commerce shall
  make publicly available an itemized list of the sources of such funding.
TITLE VI--BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH IN SPACE
SEC. 601. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the space program can make significant contributions to selected areas
  of health-related research and should be an integral part of the Nation's
  health research and development program;
  (2) the continuing development of trained scientists and engineers is
  essential to carrying out an effective and sustained program of biomedical
  research in space and on the ground;
  (3) the establishment and maintenance of an electronically accessible
  archive of data on space-related biomedical research is essential to
  advancement of the field;
  (4) cooperation with the republics of the former Soviet Union, including
  use of former Soviet orbital facilities, offers the potential for greatly
  enhanced biomedical research activities and progress; and
  (5) the establishment and maintenance of an international telemedicine
  consultation satellite capability to support emergency medical service
  provision can provide an important aid to disaster relief efforts.
SEC. 602. BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH JOINT WORKING GROUP.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Administrator and the Director of the National
  Institutes of Health shall jointly establish a working group to coordinate
  biomedical research activities in areas where a microgravity environment
  may contribute to significant progress in the understanding and treatment
  of diseases and other medical conditions. The joint working group shall
  formulate joint and complementary programs in such areas of research.
  (b) MEMBERSHIP- The joint working group shall include equal representation
  from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National
  Institutes of Health, and shall include representation from National
  Institutes of Health councils, as selected by the Director of the
  National Institutes of Health, and from the National Aeronautics and Space
  Administration Advisory Council.
  (c) ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT- The joint working group shall report
  annually to Congress on its progress in carrying out this section.
  (d) ANNUAL BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH SYMPOSIA- The working group shall organize
  annual symposia on biomedical research described in subsection (a) under
  the joint sponsorship of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
  and the National Institutes of Health.
SEC. 603. BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH GRANTS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Administrator and the Director of the
  National Institutes of Health shall establish a joint program of biomedical
  research grants in areas described in section 602(a), where such research
  requires access to a microgravity environment. Such program shall be
  consistent with actions taken by the joint working group under section 602.
  (b) RESEARCH OPPORTUNITY ANNOUNCEMENTS- The grants program established under
  subsection (a) shall annually issue joint research opportunity announcements
  under the sponsorship of the National Institutes of Health and the National
  Aeronautics and Space Administration. Responses to the announcements shall
  be evaluated by a peer review committee whose members shall be selected by
  the Director of the National Institutes of Health and the Administrator,
  and shall include individuals not employed by the National Aeronautics
  and Space Administration or the National Institutes of Health.
SEC. 604. BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS.
  The Administrator and the Director of the National Institutes of Health
  shall create a joint program of graduate research fellowships in biomedical
  research described in section 602(a). Fellowships under such program may
  provide for participation in approved research conferences and symposia.
SEC. 605. JOINT FORMER SOVIET UNION STUDIES IN BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH.
  The Administrator, in consultation with the Director of the National
  Institutes of Health, shall, as soon as practicable, establish and submit to
  Congress a plan for the conduct of joint biomedical research activities by
  the republics of the former Soviet Union and the United States, including
  the use of the United States Space Shuttle and former Soviet orbital
  facilities such as the Mir space station.
SEC. 606. ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ELECTRONIC DATA ARCHIVE.
  The Administrator shall create and maintain a national electronic data
  archive for biomedical research data obtained from space-based experiments.
SEC. 607. ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE TELEMEDICINE CAPABILITY.
  The Administrator shall with the Director of the Federal Emergency
  Management Agency, the Director of the Office of Foreign Disaster, and
  the Surgeon General of the United States jointly create and maintain an
  international telemedicine satellite consultation capability to support
  emergency medical services in disaster-stricken areas.
SEC. 608. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  The Administrator should ensure that up to $3,750,000 from the appropriations
  authorized for `Research and Development' for fiscal year 1993 are also
  used to carry out this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.