 
--H.R.690--
H.R.690
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize the National Park Service to acquire and manage the Mary McLeod
Bethune Council House National Historic Site, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this Act are to--
 (1) preserve and interpret the life and work of Mary McLeod Bethune;
 (2) preserve and interpret the history, lives, and contributions of African
 American women; and
 (3) preserve and interpret the struggle for civil rights in the United
 States of America.
SEC. 2. ACQUISITION.
 The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Secretary') may acquire, with the consent of the owner thereof, by donation
 or by purchase with donated or appropriated funds, the property designated
 under the Act of October 15, 1982 (Public Law 97-329; 96 Stat. 1615), as
 the Mary McLeod Bethune Council House National Historic Site, located at
 1318 Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., together with such structures
 and improvements thereon and such personal property associated with the
 site as he deems appropriate for interpretation of the site.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Upon acquisition of the property described in section 2,
 the cooperative agreement referred to in section 3 of the Act of October 15,
 1982 (Public Law 97-329; 96 Stat. 1615) shall cease to have any force and
 effect, and upon acquisition of such property, the Secretary shall administer
 the Mary McLeod Bethune Council House National Historic Site (hereinafter
 in this Act referred to as the `historic site') in accordance with this
 Act and in accordance with the provisions of law generally applicable to
 units of the national park system, including the Act entitled `An Act to
 establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved August
 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4) and the Act of August 21, 1935
 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467).
 (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT- (1) The Secretary is authorized and directed to
 enter into a cooperative agreement with nonprofit organizations dedicated
 to preserving and interpreting the life and work of Mary McLeod Bethune
 and the history and contributions of African American women--
 (A) to provide to the public such programs, seminars, and lectures as are
 appropriate to interpret the life and work of Mary McLeod Bethune and the
 history and contributions of African American women, and
 (B) to administer the archives currently located at the historic site,
 including providing reasonable access to the archives by scholars and other
 interested parties.
 (2) The Secretary is authorized to provide space and administrative support
 for such nonprofit organization.
 (c) MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT- The historic site shall be operated and
 managed in accordance with a General Management Plan. The Advisory Commission
 appointed under section 4 shall fully participate in an advisory capacity
 with the Secretary in the development of the General Management Plan for
 the historic site. The Secretary and the Advisory Commission shall meet
 and consult on matters relating to the management and development of the
 historic site as often as necessary, but at least semiannually.
SEC. 4. ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Mary McLeod Bethune
 Council House National Historic Site Advisory Commission (hereinafter in
 this Act referred to as the `Commission'). The Commission shall carry out
 the functions specified in section 3(c) of this Act.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Commission shall be composed of 15 members appointed
 by the Secretary for 4-year terms as follows:
 (1) 3 members appointed from recommendations submitted by the National
 Council of Negro Women, Inc.
 (2) 2 members appointed from recommendations submitted by other national
 organizations in which Mary McLeod Bethune played a leadership role.
 (3) 2 members appointed from recommendations submitted by the Bethune Museum
 and Archives, Inc.
 (4) 2 members who shall have professional expertise in the history of
 African American women.
 (5) 2 members who shall have professional expertise in archival management.
 (6) 3 members who shall represent the general public.
 (7) 1 member who shall have professional expertise in historic preservation.
Any member of the Commission appointed for a definite term may serve after
the expiration of his or her term until his or her successor is appointed. A
vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner in which the
original appointment was made.
 (c) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation
 except that the Secretary is authorized to pay such expenses as are reasonably
 incurred by the members in carrying out their responsibilities under this Act.
 (d) OFFICERS- The Chair and other officers of the Commission shall be
 elected by a majority of the members of the Commission to serve for terms
 established by the Commission.
 (e) BYLAWS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS- The Commission shall make such bylaws,
 rules, and regulations as it considers necessary to carry out its functions
 under this Act. The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory
 Committee Act (5 U.S.C. Appendix) are hereby waived with respect to this
 Commission.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.