 
--H.R.3595--
H.R.3595
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To delay until September 30, 1992, the issuance of any regulations by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services changing the treatment of voluntary
contributions and provider-specific taxes by States as a source of a State's
expenditures for which Federal financial participation is available under
the medicaid program and to maintain the treatment of intergovernmental
transfers as such a source.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Medicaid Voluntary Contribution and
 Provider-Specific Tax Amendments of 1991'.
SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON USE OF VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS, AND LIMITATION ON
THE USE OF PROVIDER-SPECIFIC TAXES TO OBTAIN FEDERAL FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION
UNDER MEDICAID.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection.
 `(w)(1)(A) Notwithstanding the previous provisions of this section, for
 purposes of determining the amount to be paid to a State (as defined in
 paragraph (7)(D)) under subsection (a)(1) for quarters in any fiscal year,
 the total amount expended during such fiscal year as medical assistance
 under the State plan (as determined without regard to this subsection)
 shall be reduced by the sum of any revenues received by the State (or by
 a unit of local government in the State) during the fiscal year--
 `(i) from provider-related donations (as defined in paragraph (2)(A)),
 other than--
 `(I) bona fide provider-related donations (as defined in paragraph
 (2)(B)), and
 `(II) donations described in paragraph (2)(C);
 `(ii) from health care related taxes (as defined in paragraph (3)(A)), other
 than broad-based health care related taxes (as defined in paragraph (3)(B));
 `(iii) from a broad-based health care related tax, if there is in effect
 a hold harmless provision (described in paragraph (4)) with respect to the
 tax; or
 `(iv) only with respect to State fiscal years (or portions thereof) occurring
 on or after January 1, 1992, and before October 1, 1995, from broad-based
 health care related taxes to the extent the amount of such taxes collected
 exceeds the limit established under paragraph (5).
 `(B) Notwithstanding the previous provisions of this section, for puroses
 of determining the amount to be paid to a State under subsection (a)(7) for
 all quarters in a Federal fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 1993), the
 total amount expended during the fiscal year for administrative expenditures
 under the State plan (as determined without regard to this subsection)
 shall be reduced by the sum of any revenues received by the State (or by a
 unit of local government in the State) during such quarters from donations
 described in paragraph (2)(C), to the extent the amount of such donations
 exceeds 10 percent of the amounts expended under the State plan under this
 title during the fiscal year for purposes described in paragraphs (2), (3),
 (4), (6), and (7) of subsection (a).
 `(C)(i) Except as otherwise provided in clause (ii), subparagraph (A)(i)
 shall apply to donations received on or after January 1, 1992.
 `(ii) Subject to the limits described in clause (iii) and subparagraph
 (E), subparagraph (A)(i) shall not apply to donations received before the
 effective date specified in subparagraph (F) if such donations are received
 under programs in effect or as described in State plan amendments or related
 documents submitted to the Secretary by September 30, 1991, and applicable
 to State fiscal year 1992, as demonstrated by State plan amendments, written
 agreements, State budget documentation, or other documentary evidence in
 existence on that date.
 `(iii) In applying clause (ii) in the case of donations received in State
 fiscal year 1993, the maximum amount of such donations to which such clause
 may be applied may not exceed the total amount of such donations received
 in the corresponding period in State fiscal year 1992 (or not later than
 5 days after the last day of the corresponding period).
 `(D)(i) Except as otherwise provided in clause (ii), subparagraphs (A)(ii)
 and (A)(iii) shall apply to taxes received on or after January 1, 1992.
 `(ii) Subparagraphs (A)(ii) and (A)(iii) shall not apply to impermissible
 taxes (as defined in clause (iii)) received before the effective date
 specified in subparagraph (F) to the extent the taxes (including the tax
 rate or base) were in effect, or the legislation or regulations imposing
 such taxes were enacted or adopted, as of November 22, 1991.
 `(iii) In this subparagraph and subparagraph (E), the term `impermissible
 tax' means a health care related tax for which a reduction may be made
 under clause (ii) or (iii) of subparagraph (A).
 `(E)(i) In no case may the total amount of donations and taxes permitted
 under the exception provided in subparagraphs (C)(ii) and (D)(ii) for the
 portion of State fiscal year 1992 occurring during calendar year 1992 exceed
 the limit under paragraph (5) minus the total amount of broad-based health
 care related taxes received in the portion of that fiscal year.
 `(ii) In no case may the total amount of donations and taxes permitted under
 the exception provided in subparagraphs (C)(ii) and (D)(ii) for State fiscal
 year 1993 exceed the limit under paragraph (5) minus the total amount of
 broad-based health care related taxes received in that fiscal year.
 `(F) In this paragraph in the case of a State--
 `(i) except as provided in clause (iii), with a State fiscal year beginning
 on or before July 1, the effective date is October 1, 1992,
 `(ii) except as provided in clause (iii), with a State fiscal year that
 begins after July 1, the effective date is January 1, 1993, or
 `(iii) with a State legislature which is not scheduled to have a regular
 legislative session in 1992, with a State legislature which is not scheduled
 to have a regular legislative session in 1993, or with a provider-specific
 tax enacted on November 4, 1991, the effective date is July 1, 1993.
 `(2)(A) In this subsection (except as provided in paragraph (6)), the term
 `provider-related donation' means any donation or other voluntary payment
 (whether in cash or in kind) made (directly or indirectly) to a State or
 unit of local government by--
 `(i) a health care provider (as defined in paragraph (7)(B)),
 `(ii) an entity related to a health care provider (as defined in paragraph
 (7)(C)), or
 `(iii) an entity providing goods or services under the State plan for which
 payment is made to the State under paragraph (2), (3), (4), (6), or (7)
 of subsection (a).
 `(B) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I), the term `bona fide
 provider-related donation' means a provider-related donation that has no
 direct or indirect relationship (as determined by the Secretary) to payments
 made under this title to that provider, to providers furnishing the same
 class of items and services as that provider, or to any related entity,
 as established by the State to the satisfaction of the Secretary. The
 Secretary may by regulation specify types of provider-related donations
 described in the previous sentence that will be considered to be bona fide
 provider-related donations.
 `(C) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(i)(II), donations described in this
 subparagraph are funds expended by a hospital, clinic, or similar entity for
 the direct cost (including costs of training and of preparing and distributing
 outreach materials) of State or local agency personnel who are stationed at
 the hospital, clinic, or entity to determine the eligibility of individuals
 for medical assistance under this title and to provide outreach services
 to eligible or potentially eligible individuals.
 `(3)(A) In this subsection (except as provided in paragraph (6)), the term
 `health care related tax' means a tax (as defined in paragraph (7)(F)) that--
 `(i) is related to health care items or services, or to the provision of,
 the authority to provide, or payment for, such items or services, or
 `(ii) is not limited to such items or services but provides for treatment
 of individuals or entities that are providing or paying for such items or
 services that is different from the treatment provided to other individuals
 or entities.
In applying clause (i), a tax is considered to relate to health care items
or services if at least 85 percent of the burden of such tax falls on health
care providers.
 `(B) In this subsection, the term `broad-based health care related tax'
 means a health care related tax which is imposed with respect to a class
 of health care items or services (as described in paragraph (7)(A)) or
 with respect to providers of such items or services and which, except as
 provided in subparagraphs (D) and (E)--
 `(i) is imposed at least with respect to all items or services in the class
 furnished by all non-Federal, nonpublic providers in the State (or, in the
 case of a tax imposed by a unit of local government, the area over which
 the unit has jurisdiction) or is imposed with respect to all non-Federal,
 nonpublic providers in the class; and
 `(ii) is imposed uniformly (in accordance with subparagraph (C)).
 `(C)(i) Subject to clause (ii), for purposes of subparagraph (B)(ii),
 a tax is considered to be imposed uniformly if--
 `(I) in the case of a tax consisting of a licensing fee or similar tax on
 a class of health care items or services (or providers of such items or
 services), the amount of the tax imposed is the same for every provider
 providing items or services within the class;
 `(II) in the case of a tax consisting of a licensing fee or similar tax
 imposed on a class of health care items or services (or providers of such
 services) on the basis of the number of beds (licensed or otherwise) of the
 provider, the amount of the tax is the same for each bed of each provider
 of such items or services in the class;
 `(III) in the case of a tax based on revenues or receipts with respect to
 a class of items or services (or providers of items or services) the tax
 is imposed at a uniform rate for all items and services (or providers of
 such items or services) in the class on all the gross revenues or receipts,
 or net operating revenues, relating to the provision of all such items or
 services (or all such providers) in the State (or, in the case of a tax
 imposed by a unit of local government within the State, in the area over
 which the unit has jurisdiction); or
 `(IV) in the case of any other tax, the State establishes to the satisfaction
 of the Secretary that the tax is imposed uniformly.
 `(ii) Subject to subparagraphs (D) and (E), a tax imposed with respect to
 a class of health care items and services is not considered to be imposed
 uniformly if the tax provides for any credits, exclusions, or deductions
 which have as their purpose or effect the return to providers of all or a
 portion of the tax paid in a manner that is inconsistent with subclauses (I)
 and (II) of subparagraph (E)(ii) or provides for a hold harmless provision
 described in paragraph (4).
 `(D) A tax imposed with respect to a class of health care items and services
 is considered to be imposed uniformly--
 `(i) notwithstanding that the tax is not imposed with respect to items or
 services (or the providers thereof) for which payment is made under a State
 plan under this title or title XVIII, or
 `(ii) in the case of a tax described in subparagraph (C)(i)(III),
 notwithstanding that the tax provides for exclusion (in whole or in part)
 of revenues or receipts from a State plan under this title or title XVIII.
 `(E)(i) A State may submit an application to the Secretary requesting
 that the Secretary treat a tax as a broad-based health care related tax,
 notwithstanding that the tax does not apply to all health care items or
 services in class (or all providers of such items and services), provides for
 a credit, deduction, or exclusion, is not applied uniformly, or otherwise
 does not meet the requirements of subparagraph (B) or (C). Permissible
 waivers may include exemptions for rural or sole-community providers.
 `(ii) The Secretary shall approve such an application if the State establishes
 to the satisfaction of the Secretary that--
 `(I) the net impact of the tax and associated expenditures under this title
 as proposed by the State is generally redistributive in nature, and
 `(II) the amount of the tax is not directly correlated to payments under
 this title for items or services with respect to which the tax is imposed.
The Secretary shall by regulation specify types of credits, exclusions,
and deductions that will be considered to meet the requirements of this
subparagraph.
 `(4) For purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(iii), there is in effect a hold
 harmless provision with respect to a broad-based health care related tax
 imposed with respect to a class of items or services if the Secretary
 determines that any of the following applies:
 `(A) The State or other unit of government imposing the tax provides
 (directly or indirectly) for a payment (other than under this title) to
 taxpayers and the amount of such payment is positively correlated either
 to the amount of such tax or to the difference between the amount of the
 tax and the amount of payment under the State plan.
 `(B) All or any portion of the payment made under this title to the taxpayer
 varies based only upon the amount of the total tax paid.
 `(C) The State or other unit of government imposing the tax provides
 (directly or indirectly) for any payment, offset, or waiver that guarantees
 to hold taxpayers harmless for any portion of the costs of the tax.
The provisions of this paragraph shall not prevent use of the tax to reimburse
health care providers in a class for expenditures under this title nor
preclude States from relying on such reimbursement to justify or explain
the tax in the legislative process.
 `(5)(A) For purposes of this subsection, the limit under this subparagraph
 with respect to a State is an amount equal to 25 percent (or, if greater,
 the State base percentage, as defined in subparagraph (B)) of the non-Federal
 share of the total amount expended under the State plan during a State fiscal
 year (or portion thereof), as it would be determined pursuant to paragraph
 (1)(A) without regard to paragraph (1)(A)(iv).
 `(B)(i) In subparagraph (A), the term `State base percentage' means, with
 respect to a State, an amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to--
 `(I) the total of the amount of health care related taxes (whether or
 not broad-based) and the amount of provider-related donations (whether or
 not bona fide) projected to be collected (in accordance with clause (ii))
 during State fiscal year 1992, divided by
 `(II) the non-Federal share of the total amount estimated to be expended
 under the State plan during such State fiscal year.
 `(ii) For purposes of clause (i)(I), in the case of a tax that is not in
 effect throughout State fiscal year 1992 or the rate (or base) of which is
 increased during such fiscal year, the Secretary shall project the amount
 to be collected during such fiscal year as if the tax (or increase) were
 in effect during the entire State fiscal year.
 `(C)(i) The total amount of health care related taxes under subparagraph
 (B)(i)(I) shall be determined by the Secretary based on only those taxes
 (including the tax rate or base) which were in effect, or for which
 legislation or regulations imposing such taxes were enacted or adopted,
 as of November 22, 1991.
 `(ii) The amount of provider-related donations under subparagraph (B)(i)(I)
 shall be determined by the Secretary based on programs in effect on September
 30, 1991, and applicable to State fiscal year 1992, as demonstrated by
 State plan amendments, written agreements, State budget documentation,
 or other documentary evidence in existence on that date.
 `(iii) The amount of expenditures described in subparagraph (B)(i)(II)
 shall be determined by the Secretary based on the best data available as
 of the date of the enactment of this subsection.
 `(6)(A) Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, the Secretary may
 not restrict States' use of funds where such funds are derived from State or
 local taxes (or funds appropriated to State university teaching hospitals)
 transferred from or certified by units of government within a State as the
 non-Federal share of expenditures under this title, regardless of whether
 the unit of government is also a health care provider, except as provided
 in section 1902(a)(2), unless the transferred funds are derived by the unit
 of government from donations or taxes that would not otherwise be recognized
 as the non-Federal share under this section.
 `(B) For purposes of this subsection, funds the use of which the Secretary
 may not restrict under subparagraph (A) shall not be considered to be a
 provider-related donation or a health care related tax.
 `(7) For purposes of this subsection:
 `(A) Each of the following shall be considered a separate class of health
 care items and services:
 `(i) Inpatient hospital services.
 `(ii) Outpatient hospital services.
 `(iii) Nursing facility services (other than services of intermediate care
 facilities for the mentally retarded).
 `(iv) Services of intermediate care facilities for the mentally retarded.
 `(v) Physicians' services.
 `(vi) Home health care services.
 `(vii) Outpatient prescription drugs.
 `(viii) Services of health maintenance organizations (and other organizations
 with contracts under section 1903(m)).
 `(ix) Such other classification of health care items and services consistent
 with this subparagraph as the Secretary may establish by regulation.
 `(B) The term `health care provider' means an individual or person that
 receives payments for the provision of health care items or services.
 `(C) An entity is considered to be `related' to a health care provider if
 the entity--
 `(i) is an organization, association, corporation or partnership formed by
 or on behalf of health care providers;
 `(ii) is a person with an ownership or control interest (as defined in
 section 1124(a)(3)) in the provider;
 `(iii) is the employee, spouse, parent, child, or sibling of the provider
 (or of a person described in clause (ii)); or
 `(iv) has a similar, close relationship (as defined in regulations) to
 the provider.
 `(D) The term `State' means only the 50 States and the District of Columbia
 but does not include any State whose entire program under this title is
 operated under a waiver granted under section 1115.
 `(E) The `State fiscal year' means, with respect to a specified year,
 a State fiscal year ending in that specified year.
 `(F) The term `tax' includes any licensing fee, assessment, or other mandatory
 payment, but does not include payment of a criminal or civil fine or penalty
 (other than a fine or penalty imposed in lieu of or instead of a fee,
 assessment, or other mandatory payment).
 `(G) The term `unit of local government' means, with respect to a State,
 a city, county, special purpose district, or other governmental unit in
 the State.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 1902(t) of such Act (42
 U.S.C. 1396a(t)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `Except as provided in section 1903(i), nothing' and inserting
 `Nothing', and
 (B) by striking `taxes (whether or not of general applicability)' and
 inserting `taxes of general applicability'.
 (2) Section 1903(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(i)) is amended by striking
 paragraph (10) inserted by section 4701(b)(2)(B) of the Omnibus Budget
 Reconciliation Act of 1990.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) The amendments made by this section shall take
 effect January 1, 1992, without regard to whether or not regulations have
 been promulgated to carry out such amendments by such date.
 (2) Except as specifically provided in section 1903(w) of the Social Security
 Act and notwithstanding any other provision of such Act, the Secretary of
 Health and Human Services shall not, with respect to expenditures prior to
 the effective date specified in section 1903(w)(1)(F) of such Act, disallow
 any claim submitted by a State for, or otherwise withhold Federal financial
 participation with respect to, amounts expended for medical assistance under
 title XIX of the Social Security Act by reason of the fact that the source
 of the funds used to constitute the non-Federal share of such expenditures
 is a tax imposed on, or a donation received from, a health care provider,
 or on the ground that the amount of any donation or tax proceeds must be
 credited against the amount of the expenditure.
 (3) The interim final rule promulgated by the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services on October 31, 1991 (56 Federal Register 56132), relating to the
 State share of financial participation under the medicaid program, is hereby
 nullified and is of no effect. No part of such rule shall be effective except
 pursuant to a rule promulgated after the date of the enactment of this Act
 and consistent with this section (and the amendments made by this section).
SEC. 3. RESTRICTIONS ON AGGREGATE PAYMENTS FOR DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE
HOSPITALS.
 (a) REPEAL OF PROHIBITION OF UPPER PAYMENT LIMIT FOR DISPROPORTIONATE SHARE
 HOSPITALS- Section 1902(h) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(h))
 is amended by striking `to limit' the first place it appears and all that
 follows through `special needs or'.
 (b) LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE PAYMENT ADJUSTMENTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 1923 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f) DENIAL OF FEDERAL FINANCIAL PARTICIPATION FOR PAYMENTS IN EXCESS OF
 CERTAIN LIMITS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL-
 `(A) APPLICATION OF STATE-SPECIFIC LIMITS- Except as provided in subparagraph
 (D), payment under section 1903(a) shall not be made with respect to any
 payment adjustment made under this section for hospitals in a State (as
 defined in paragraph (4)(B)) for quarters--
 `(i) in fiscal year 1992 (beginning on or after January 1, 1992), unless--
 `(I) the payment adjustments are made--
 `(a) in accordance with the State plan in effect or amendments submitted
 to the Secretary by September 30, 1991,
 `(b) in accordance with the State plan in effect or amendments submitted to
 the Secretary by November 26, 1991, or modification thereof, if the amendment
 designates only disproportionate share hospitals with a medicaid or low-income
 utilization percentage at or above the Statewide arithmetic mean, or
 `(c) in accordance with a payment methodology which was established and
 in effect as of September 30, 1991, or in accordance with legislation or
 regulations enacted or adopted as of such date; or
 `(II) the payment adjustments are the minimum adjustments required in order
 to meet the requirements of subsection (c)(1); or
 `(ii) in a subsequent fiscal year, to the extent that the total of such
 payment adjustments exceeds the State disproportionate share hospital (in
 this subsection referred to as `DSH') allotment for the year (as specified
 in paragraph (2)).
 `(B) NATIONAL DSH PAYMENT LIMIT- The national DSH payment limit for a fiscal
 year is equal to 12 percent of the total amount of expenditures under State
 plans under this title for medical assistance during the fiscal year.
 `(C) PUBLICATION OF STATE DSH ALLOTMENTS AND NATIONAL DSH PAYMENT LIMIT-
 Before the beginning of each fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 1993),
 the Secretary shall, consistent with section 1903(d), estimate and publish--
 `(i) the national DSH payment limit for the fiscal year, and
 `(ii) the State DSH allotment for each State for the year.
 `(D) CONDITIONAL EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN STATES- Subject to subparagraph (E),
 beginning with payments for quarters beginning on or after January 1, 1996,
 and at the option of a State, subparagraph (A) shall not apply in the case
 of a State which defines a hospital as a disproportionate share hospital
 under subsection (a)(1) only if the hospital meets any of the following
 requirements:
 `(i) The hospital's medicaid inpatient utilization rate (as defined in
 subsection (b)(2)) is at or above the mean medicaid inpatient utilization
 rate for all hospitals in the State.
 `(ii) The hospital's low-income utilization rate (as defined in subsection
 (b)(3)) is at or above the mean low-income utilization rate for all hospitals
 in the State.
 `(iii) The number of inpatient days of the hospital attributable to patients
 who (for such days) were eligible for medical assistance under the State
 plan is equal to at least 1 percent of the total number of such days for
 all hospitals in the State.
 `(iv) The hospital meets such alternative requirements as the Secretary may
 establish by regulation, taking into account the special circumstances of
 children's hospitals, hospitals located in rural areas, and sole community
 hospitals.
 `(E) CONDITION FOR OPTION- The option specified in subparagraph (D) shall not
 apply for payments for a quarter beginning before the date of enactment of
 legislation establishing a limit on payment adjustments under this section
 which would apply in the case of a state exercising such option.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF STATE DSH ALLOTMENTS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), the State DSH allotment for a
 fiscal year is equal to the State DSH allotment for the previous fiscal year
 (or, for fiscal year 1993, the State base allotment as defined in paragraph
 (4)(C)), increased by--
 `(i) the State growth factor (as defined in paragraph (4)(E)) for the fiscal
 year, and
 `(ii) the State supplemental amount for the fiscal year (as determined
 under paragraph (3)).
 `(B) EXCEPTIONS-
 `(i) LIMIT TO 12 PERCENT OR BASE ALLOTMENT- A State DSH allotment under
 subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year shall not exceed 12 percent of the total
 amount of expenditures under the State plan for medical assistance during
 the fiscal year, except that, in the case of a high DSH State (as defined
 in paragraph (4)(A)), the State DSH allotment shall equal the State based
 allotment.
 `(ii) EXCEPTION FOR MINIMUM REQUIRED ADJUSTMENT- No State DSH allotment shall
 be less than the minimum amount of payment adjustments the State is required
 to make in the fiscal year to meet the requirements of subsection (c)(1).
 `(3) STATE SUPPLEMENTAL AMOUNTS- The Secretary shall determine a supplemental
 amount for each State that is not a high DSH State for a fiscal year
 as follows:
 `(A) DETERMINATION OF REDISTRIBUTION POOL- The Secretary shall subtract
 from the national DSH payment limit (specified in paragraph (1)(B) for the
 fiscal year the following:
 `(i) the total of the State base allotments for high DSH States;
 `(ii) the total of State DSH allotments for the previous fiscal year (or,
 in the case of fiscal year 1993, the total of State base allotments) for
 all States other than high DSH States;
 `(iii) the total of the State growth amounts for all States other than high
 DSH States for the fiscal year; and
 `(iv) the total additions to State DSH allotments the Secretary estimates
 will be attributable to paragraph (2)(B)(ii).
 `(B) DISTRIBUTION OF POOL BASED ON TOTAL MEDICAID EXPENDITURES FOR MEDICAL
 ASSISTANCE- The supplemental amount for a State for a fiscal year is equal
 to the lesser of--
 `(i) the product of the amount determined under subparagraph (A) and the
 ratio of--
 `(I) the total amount of expenditures made under the State plan under this
 title for medical assistance during the fiscal year, to
 `(II) the total amount of expenditures made under the State plans under
 this title for medical assistance during the fiscal year for all States
 which are not high DSH States in the fiscal year, or
 `(ii) the amount that would raise the State DSH allotment to the maximum
 permitted under paragraph (2)(B).
 `(4) DEFINITIONS- In this subsection:
 `(A) HIGH DSH STATE- The term `high DSH State' means, for a fiscal year,
 a State for which the State base allotment exceeds 12 percent of the total
 amount of expenditures made under the State plan under this title for
 medical assistance during the fiscal year.
 `(B) STATE- The term `State' means only the 50 States and the District of
 Columbia but does not include any State whose entire program under this
 title is operated under a waiver granted under section 1115.
 `(C) STATE BASE ALLOTMENT- The term `State base allotment' means, with
 respect to a State, the greater of--
 `(i) the total amount of payment adjustments made under subsection (c)
 under the State plan during fiscal year 1992 (excluding any such payment
 adjustments for which a reduction may be made under paragraph (1)(A)(i)), or
 `(ii) $1,000,000.
The amount under clause (i) shall be determined by the Secretary and shall
include only payment adjustments described in paragraph (1)(A)(i)(I).
 `(D) STATE GROWTH AMOUNT- The term `State growth amount' means, with respect
 to a State for a fiscal year, the lesser of--
 `(i) the product of the State growth factor and the State DSH payment limit
 for the previous fiscal year, or
 `(ii) the amount by which 12 percent of the total amount of expenditures
 made under the State plan under this title for medical assistance during
 the fiscal year exceeds the State DSH allotment for the previous fiscal year.
 `(E) STATE GROWTH FACTOR- The term `State growth factor' means, for a State
 for a fiscal year, the percentage by which the expenditures described in
 section 1903(a) in the State in the fiscal year exceed such expenditures
 in the previous fiscal year.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (A) Such section 1923 is further amended--
 (i) in subsection (a)(2)(B), by striking `subsection (c),' and inserting
 `subsections (c) and (f),'; and
 (ii) in subsection (c), by striking `In order' and inserting `Subject to
 subsection (f), in order'.
 (B) Section 1903(a)(1) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(a)(1)) is amended by
 inserting `and section 1923(f)' after `of this section'.
 (c) LIMITS ON AUTHORITY TO RESTRICT DSH DESIGNATIONS- Subsection (b) of
 such section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) The Secretary may not restrict a State's authority to designate
 hospitals as disproportionate share hospitals under this section. The
 previous sentence shall not be construed to affect the authority of the
 Secretary to reduce payments pursuant to section 1903(w)(1)(A)(iii) if the
 Secretary determines that, as a result of such designations, there is in
 effect a hold harmless provision described in section 1903(w)(4).'.
 (d) STUDY OF DSH PAYMENT ADJUSTMENTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Prospective Payment Assessment Commission shall conduct
 a study concerning--
 (A) the feasibility and desirability of establishing maximum and minimum
 payment adjustments under section 1923(c) of the Social Security Act for
 hospitals deemed disproportionate share hospitals under State medicaid
 plans, and
 (B) criteria (other than criteria described in clause (i) or (ii) of section
 1923(f)(1)(D) of such Act) that are appropriate for the designation of
 disproportionate share hospitals under section 1923 of such Act.
 (2) ITEMS INCLUDED IN STUDY- The Commission shall include in the study--
 (A) a comparison of the payment adjustments for hospitals made under such
 section and the additional payments made under title XVIII of such Act for
 hospitals serving a significantly disproportionate number of low-income
 patients under the medicare program; and
 (B) an analysis of the effect the establishment of limits on such payment
 adjustments will have on the ability of the hospitals to be reimbursed for the
 resource costs incurred by the hospitals in treating individuals entitled to
 medical assistance under State medicaid plans and other low-income patients.
 (3) REPORT- Not later than January 1, 1994, the Commission shall submit
 a report on the study conducted under paragraph (1) to the Committee on
 Finance of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
 of Representatives. Such report shall include such recommendations respecting
 the designation of disproportionate share hospitals and the establishment
 of maximum and minimum payment adjustments for such hospitals under section
 1923 of the Social Security Act as may be appropriate.
 (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- (1) The amendments made by this section shall take
 effect January 1, 1992.
 (2) The proposed rule promulgated by the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services on October 31, 1991 (56 Federal Register 56141), relating to the
 standards for defining disproportionate share hospitals under the medicaid
 program, shall be withdrawn and canceled. No part of such proposed rule
 shall be effective except pursuant to a rule promulgated after the date
 of the enactment of this Act and consistent with this section (and the
 amendments made by this section).
SEC. 4. REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1903(d) of the Social Security Act (42
 U.S.C. 1396b(d)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-lowing:
 `(6)(A) Each State (as defined in subsection (w)(7)(D)) shall include,
 in the first report submitted under paragraph (1) after the end of each
 fiscal year, information related to--
 `(i) provider-related donations made to the State or units of local government
 during such fiscal year, and
 `(ii) health care related taxes collected by the State or such units during
 such fiscal year.
 `(B) Each State shall include, in the first report submitted under paragraph
 (1) after the end of each fiscal year, information related to the total
 amount of payment adjustments made, and the amount of payment adjustments
 made to individual providers (by provider), under section 1923(c) during
 such fiscal year.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 fiscal years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. INTERIM FINAL REGULATIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services shall issue such regulations (on an interim final or other basis)
 as may be necessary to implement this Act and the amendments made by this Act.
 (b) REGULATIONS CHANGING TREATMENT OF INTERGOVERNMENTAL TRANSFERS- The
 Secretary may not issue any interim final regulation that changes the
 treatment (specified in section 433.45(a) of title 42, Code of Federal
 Regulations) of public funds as a source of State share of financial
 participation under title XIX of the Social Security Act, except as may be
 necessary to permit the Secretary to deny Federal financial participation
 for public funds described in section 1903(w)(6)(A) of such Act (as added
 by section 2(a) of this Act) that are derived from donations or taxes that
 would not otherwise be recognized as the non-Federal share under section
 1903(w) of such Act.
 (c) CONSULTATION WITH STATES- The Secretary shall consult with the States
 before issuing any regulations under this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.