 
--H.R.1448--
H.R.1448
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Act of May 12, 1920 (41 Stat. 596), to allow the city of
Pocatello, Idaho,
to use certain lands for a correctional facility for women, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ALLOWANCE OF USE OF LAND FOR ADDITIONAL PUBLIC PURPOSE.
 (a) MODIFICATION- The first section of the Act entitled `An Act to grant
 certain lands to the city of Pocatello, State of Idaho, for conserving
 and protecting the source of its water supply', approved May 12, 1920 (41
 Stat. 596), is amended by striking `city:', and by inserting in lieu thereof
 `city, and for use for the construction and operation of a correctional
 facility for women on no more than forty acres in the west half of section two
 that are contiguous with Fore Road (as such road existed on June 11, 1991),
 provided that neither the city nor any other entity allows the construction
 after June 11, 1991, of any temporary or permanent road across City Creek
 or within the area three hundred feet on each side of the centerline of such
 creek (but any road existing within such area on such date may be maintained
 to the same standard as existed on such date), and (with respect to the
 remainder of such lands) for use for outdoor recreational purposes consistent
 with the maintenance of natural open space, wildlife habitat purposes, and
 other public purposes consistent with water storage or utility transmission
 purposes by such city or other governmental entity. The city of Pocatello may
 convey or lease to a governmental entity established under the laws of the
 State of Idaho such portion of the lands conveyed to such city under this
 Act as may be used for a correctional facility, but may not transfer any
 of the city's right, title, or interest in any other portion of such lands:'.
 (b) The first section of said Act is further amended by the addition of
 the following paragraphs at the end thereof:
 `(b)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, if any land, or
 portion thereof, granted or otherwise conveyed to the city of Pocatello
 under this Act is or shall become contaminated with hazardous substances
 (as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation
 and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601)), or if such land, or portion thereof,
 has been used for purposes that the Secretary of the Interior finds may
 result in the disposal, placement, or release of any hazardous substance,
 such land shall not, under any circumstance, revert to the United States.
 `(2) If lands granted or conveyed to the city of Pocatello by or pursuant to
 this Act shall be used for purposes that the Secretary of the Interior finds:
 (A) inconsistent with the purposes for which such lands were granted or
 conveyed and not authorized by the Secretary pursuant to this Act, and (B)
 which may result in the disposal, placement, or release of any hazardous
 substance, the city of Pocatello shall be liable to pay to the Secretary
 of the Interior, on behalf of the United States, the fair market value of
 the land, including the value of any improvement thereon, as of the date of
 conversion of the land to such nonconforming purpose. All amounts received by
 the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to this subsection shall be retained
 by the Secretary of the Interior and used, subject to appropriations, for
 the management of public lands and shall remain available until expended.'.
 (c) AMENDMENT OF PATENTS- Upon the request of the city of Pocatello, the
 Secretary of the Interior shall amend any patents issued pursuant to the
 Act of May 12, 1920, so as to conform to the amendments to such Act made
 by this Act.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 The first section of the Act of May 12, 1920 (41 Stat. 596) is amended
 by designating the existing text of such section as section 1(a) and by
 striking out `of each year after the expiration of said two years,' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `every five years beginning in 1996,'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.