 
--H.R.3280--
H.R.3280
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide for a study, to be conducted by the National Academy of Sciences,
on how the Government can improve the decennial census of population, and
on related matters.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Decennial Census Improvement Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Commerce shall, within 30 days after the date
 of enactment of this Act, and subject to the availability of appropriations,
 contract with the National Academy of Sciences (hereinafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Academy') to study--
 (1) means by which the Government could achieve the most accurate population
 count possible; and
 (2) consistent with the goal under paragraph (1), ways for the Government
 to collect other demographic and housing data.
 (b) SPECIFIC CONSIDERATIONS- In conducting its study, the Academy shall
 consider such matters as--
 (1) with respect to subsection (a)(1)--
 (A) ways to improve the Government's enumeration methods, especially with
 regard to those involving the direct collection of data from respondents;
 (B) alternative methods for collecting the data needed for a basic population
 count, such as any involving administrative records, information from
 subnational or other surveys, and cumulative or rolling data-collection
 techniques; and
 (C) the appropriateness of using sampling methods, in combination with basic
 data-collection techniques or otherwise, in the acquisition or refinement
 of population data, including a review of the accuracy of the data for
 different levels of geography (such as States, places, census tracts and
 census blocks); and
 (2) with respect to subsection (a)(2)--
 (A) the degree to which a continuing need is anticipated with respect to
 the types of data (besides data relating to the basic population count)
 which were collected through the last decennial census; and
 (B) with respect to data for which such a need is anticipated, whether there
 are more effective ways to collect information using traditional methods and
 whether alternative sources or methodologies exist or could be implemented
 for obtaining reliable information in a timely manner.
 (c) REPORTS- (1) The Academy shall submit to the Secretary and to the
 Committee on Post Office and Civil Service of the House of Representatives
 and the committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate--
 (A) within 18 months after the date on which a contract is entered into
 under subsection (a), an interim report on its activities under this Act; and
 (B) within 36 months after the date on which a contract is entered into under
 subsection (a), a final report which shall include a detailed statement of
 the Academy's findings and conclusions, as well as recommendations for any
 legislation or administrative action which the Academy considers appropriate.
 (2) With respect to each alternative proposed or discussed in its final
 report, the Academy shall include--
 (A) an evaluation of such alternative's relative advantages and disadvantages,
 as well as an analysis of its cost effectiveness; and
 (B) for any alternative that does not involve the direct collection of
 data from individuals (about themselves or members of their household),
 an analysis of such alternative's potential effects on--
 (i) privacy;
 (ii) public confidence in the census; and
 (iii) the integrity of the census.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.