 
--H.R.6165--
H.R.6165
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend certain provisions of law relating to establishment, in the District
of Columbia or its environs, of a memorial to honor Thomas Paine.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That effective as of the enactment
  of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize the construction of a monument
  in the District of Columbia or its environs to honor Thomas Paine, and
  for other purposes' (H.R. 1628, One Hundred Second Congress), such Act is
  amended to read as follows:
`SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH MEMORIAL.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Thomas Paine National Historical Association is
  authorized to establish a memorial on Federal land in the District of
  Columbia or its environs to honor Thomas Paine.
  `(b) COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS FOR COMMEMORATIVE WORKS- The establishment
  of the memorial shall be in accordance with the Act entitled `An Act to
  provide standards for placement of commemorative works on certain Federal
  lands in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for other purposes'
  approved November 14, 1986 (40 U.S.C. 1001, et seq.).
`SEC. 2. PAYMENT OF EXPENSES.
  `The Thomas Paine National Historical Association shall be solely responsible
  for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of,
  the establishment of the memorial. No Federal funds may be used to pay
  any expense of the establishment of the memorial.
`SEC. 3. DEPOSIT OF EXCESS FUNDS.
  `If, upon payment of all expenses of the establishment of the memorial
  (including the maintenance and preservation amount provided for in section
  8(b) of the Act referred to in section 1(b)), or upon expiration of the
  authority for the memorial under section 10(b) of that Act, there remains
  a balance of funds received for the establishment of the memorial, the
  Thomas Paine National Historical Association shall transmit the amount of
  the balance to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the account
  provided for in section 8(b)(1) of that Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.