 
--H.R.479--
H.R.479
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the National Trails System Act to designate the California National
Historic Trail and Pony Express National Historic Trail as components of
the National Trails System.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF TRAILS.
 Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) is
 amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:
 `( ) The California National Historic Trail, a route of approximately five
 thousand seven hundred miles, including all routes and cutoffs, extending
 from Independence and Saint Joseph, Missouri, and Council Bluffs, Iowa, to
 various points in California and Oregon, as generally described in the report
 of the Department of the Interior prepared pursuant to subsection (b) of this
 section entitled `California and Pony Express Trails, Eligibility/Feasibility
 Study/Environmental Assessment' and dated September 1987. A map generally
 depicting the route shall be on file and available for public inspection in
 the Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The
 trail shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior. No lands
 or interests therein outside the exterior boundaries of any federally
 administered area may be acquired by the United States for the California
 National Historic Trail except with the consent of the owner thereof.
 `( ) The Pony Express National Historic Trail, a route of approximately one
 thousand nine hundred miles, including the original route and subsequent route
 changes, extending from Saint Joseph, Missouri, to Sacramento, California, as
 generally described in the report of the Department of the Interior prepared
 pursuant to subsection (b) of this section entitled `California and Pony
 Express Trails, Eligibility/Feasibility Study/Environmental Assessment',
 and dated September 1987. A map generally depicting the route shall be on
 file and available for public inspection in the Office of the National Park
 Service, Department of the Interior. The trail shall be administered by
 the Secretary of the Interior. No lands or interests therein outside the
 exterior boundaries of any federally administered area may be acquired by
 the United States for the Pony Express National Historic Trail except with
 the consent of the owner thereof.'.
SEC. 2. STUDY PROVISIONS.
 The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to as the Secretary)
 shall undertake a study of the land and water route used to carry mail from
 Sacramento to San Francisco, California, to determine the feasibility and
 suitability of designation of such route as a component of the Pony Express
 National Historic Trail designated by section 1 of this Act. Upon completion
 of the study, if the Secretary determines such route is a feasible and
 suitable addition to the Pony Express National Historic Trail, the Secretary
 shall designate the route as a component of the Pony Express National Historic
 Trail. The Secretary shall publish notice of such designation in the Federal
 Register and shall submit the study along with his findings to the Committee
 on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.