 
--H.R.848--
H.R.848
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I
SEC. 101. REDESIGNATION OF MONUMENT.
 The Custer Battlefield National Monument in Montana shall, on and after the
 date of enactment of this Act, be known as the `Little Bighorn Battlefield
 National Monument' (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `monument'). Any
 reference to the Custer Battlefield National Monument in any law, map,
 regulation, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be
 deemed to be a reference to the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument.
SEC. 102. CUSTER NATIONAL CEMETERY.
 The cemetery located within the monument shall be designated as the Custer
 National Cemetery.
TITLE II
SEC. 201. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) a monument was erected in 1881 at Last Stand Hill to commemorate the
 soldiers, scouts, and civilians attached to the 7th United States Cavalry
 who fell in the Battle of the Little Bighorn;
 (2) while many members of the Cheyenne, Sioux, and other Indian Nations gave
 their lives defending their families and traditional lifestyle and livelihood,
 nothing stands at the battlefield to commemorate those individuals; and
 (3) the public interest will best be served by establishing a memorial
 at the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument to honor the Indian
 participants in the battle.
SEC. 202. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Secretary') shall establish a committee to be known
 as the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument Advisory Committee
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Advisory Committee').
 (b) MEMBERSHIP AND CHAIRPERSON- The Advisory Committee shall be composed of
 11 members appointed by the Secretary, with 6 of the individuals appointed
 representing Native American tribes who participated in the Battle of
 the Little Bighorn or who now reside in the area, 2 of the individuals
 appointed being nationally recognized artists and 3 of the individuals
 appointed being knowledgeable in history, historic preservation, and
 landscape architecture. The Advisory Committee shall designate one of its
 members as Chairperson.
 (c) QUORUM; MEETINGS- Six members of the Advisory Committee shall constitute
 a quorum. The Advisory Committee shall act and advise by affirmative vote of a
 majority of the members voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present. The
 Advisory Committee shall meet on a regular basis. Notice of meetings and
 agenda shall be published in local newspapers which have a distribution
 which generally covers the area affected by the monument. Advisory Committee
 meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to ensure
 adequate public involvement.
 (d) ADVISORY FUNCTIONS- The Advisory Committee shall advise the Secretary
 to ensure that the memorial designed and constructed as provided in section
 203 shall be appropriate to the monument, its resources and landscape,
 sensitive to the history being portrayed and artistically commendable.
 (e) TECHNICAL STAFF SUPPORT- In order to provide staff support and technical
 services to assist the Advisory Committee in carrying out its duties under
 this Act, upon request of the Advisory Committee, the Secretary of the
 Interior is authorized to detail any personnel of the National Park Service
 to the Advisory Committee.
 (f) COMPENSATION- Members of the Advisory Committee shall serve without
 compensation but shall be entitled to travel expenses, including per diem in
 lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently
 in Government service under section 5703 of title 5 of the United States Code.
 (g) CHARTER- The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory
 Committee Act (5 U.S.C. Appendix; 86 Stat. 776), are hereby waived with
 respect to the Advisory Committee.
 (h) TERMINATION- The Advisory Committee shall terminate upon dedication of
 the memorial authorized under section 203.
SEC. 203. MEMORIAL.
 (a) DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE- In order to honor and recognize
 the Indians who fought to preserve their land and culture in the Battle of
 the Little Bighorn, to provide visitors with an improved understanding of
 the events leading up to and the consequences of the fateful battle, and
 to encourage peace among people of all races, the Secretary shall design,
 construct, and maintain a memorial at the Little Bighorn Battlefield
 National Monument.
 (b) SITE- The Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory Committee, shall
 select the site of the memorial. Such area shall be located on the ridge in
 that part of the Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument which is in
 the vicinity of the 7th Cavalry Monument, as generally depicted on a map
 entitled `Custer Battlefield National Monument General Development Map'
 dated March 1990 and numbered 381/80,044-A.
 (c) DESIGN COMPETITION- The Secretary, in consultation with the Advisory
 Committee, shall hold a national design competition to select the design of
 the memorial. The design criteria shall include but not necessarily be limited
 to compatibility with the monument and its resources in form and scale,
 sensitivity to the history being portrayed, and artistic merit. The design
 and plans for the memorial shall be subject to the approval of the Secretary.
SEC. 204. DONATIONS OF FUNDS, PROPERTY, AND SERVICES.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may accept
 and expend donations of funds, property, or services from individuals,
 foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purpose of providing
 for the memorial.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry
 out this Act.
TITLE III
SEC. 301. EXTENSION OF ALIENABILITY RESTRICTIONS ON SETTLEMENT COMMON STOCK.
 Section 37(a) of Public Law 92-203, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
 (43 U.S.C. 1629c(a)) is amended by striking `December 18, 1991.' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `July 16, 1993: Provided, however, That this prohibition shall
 not apply to a Native Corporation whose board of directors approves, no later
 than March 1, 1992, a resolution (certified by the corporate secretary of
 such corporation) electing to decline the application of such prohibition.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.