 
--H.R.3475--
H.R.3475
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To assist business in providing women with opportunities in apprenticeship
and nontraditional occupations.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of American in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act shall be cited as the `Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional
  Occupations Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) American businesses now and for the remainder of the 20th century will
  face a dramatically different labor market than the one to which they have
  become accustomed;
  (2) two in every three new entrants to the work force will be women,
  and to meet labor needs such women must work in all occupational areas
  including in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;
  (3) women face significant barriers to their full and effective participation
  in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;
  (4) the business community must be prepared to address the barriers that
  women have to such jobs, in order to successfully integrate them into the
  work force; and
  (5) few resources are available to employers and unions who need assistance
  in recruiting, training, and retaining women in apprenticeable occupations
  and other nontraditional occupations.
  (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to provide technical assistance to
  employers and labor unions to encourage employment of women in apprenticeable
  occupations and nontraditional occupations. Such assistance will enable
  business to meet the challenge of Workforce 2000 by preparing employers
  to successfully recruit, train, and retain women in apprenticeable
  occupations and nontraditional occupations and will expand the employment
  and self-sufficiency options of women. This purpose will be achieved by--
  (1) promoting the program to employers and labor unions to inform them
  of the availability of technical assistance which will assist them in
  preparing the workplace to employ women in apprenticeable occupations and
  nontraditional occupations;
  (2) providing grants to community-based organizations to deliver technical
  assistance to employers and labor unions to prepare them to recruit,
  train, and employ women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional
  occupations;
  (3) authorizing the Department of Labor to serve as a liaison between
  employers, labor, and the community-based organizations providing technical
  assistance, through its national office and its regional administrators; and
  (4) conducting a comprehensive study to examine the barriers to the
  participation of women in apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional
  occupations and to develop recommendations for the workplace to eliminate
  such barriers.
SEC. 3. OUTREACH TO EMPLOYERS AND LABOR UNIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- With funds available to the Secretary of Labor to carry
  out the operations of the Department of Labor in fiscal year 1994 and
  subsequent fiscal years, the Secretary shall carry out an outreach program
  to inform employers of technical assistance available under section 4(a) to
  assist employers to prepare the workplace to employ women in apprenticeable
  occupations and other nontraditional occupations.
  (1) Under such program the Secretary shall provide outreach to employers
  through, but not limited to, the private industry councils in each service
  delivery area.
  (2) The Secretary shall provide outreach to labor unions through, but not
  limited to, the building trade councils, joint apprenticeable occupations
  councils, and individual labor unions.
  (b) PRIORITY- The Secretary shall give priority to providing outreach to
  employers located in areas that have nontraditional employment and training
  programs specifically targeted to women.
SEC. 4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- With funds appropriated to carry out this section, the
  Secretary shall make grants to community-based organizations to provide
  technical assistance to employers and labor unions selected under subsection
  (b). Such technical assistance may include--
  (1) developing outreach and orientation sessions to recruit women into
  the employers' apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations;
  (2) developing preapprenticeable occupations or nontraditional skills
  training to prepare women for apprenticeable occupations or nontraditional
  occupations;
  (3) providing ongoing orientations for employers, unions, and workers on
  creating a successful environment for women in apprenticeable occupations
  or nontraditional occupations;
  (4) setting up support groups and facilitating networks for women in
  nontraditional occupations on or off the job site to improve their retention;
  (5) setting up a local computerized data base referral system to maintain
  a current list of tradeswomen who are available for work;
  (6) serving as a liaison between tradeswomen and employers and tradeswomen
  and labor unions to address workplace issues related to gender; and
  (7) conducting exit interviews with tradeswomen to evaluate their on-the-job
  experience and to assess the effectiveness of the program.
  (b) SELECTION OF EMPLOYER AND LABOR UNIONS- The Secretary shall select
  a total of 50 employers or labor unions to receive technical assistance
  provided with grants made under subsection (a).
SEC. 5. COMPETITIVE GRANTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Each community-based organization that desires to receive a
  grant to provide technical assistance under section 4(a) to employers and
  labor unions shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time,
  in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may
  reasonably require.
  (b) PRIORITY- In awarding grants under section 4(a), the Secretary shall
  give priority to applications from community-based organizations that--
  (1) demonstrate experience preparing women to gain employment in
  apprenticeable occupations or other nontraditional occupations;
  (2) demonstrate experience working with the business community to prepare
  them to place women in apprenticeable occupations or other nontraditional
  occupations;
  (3) have tradeswomen or women in nontraditional occupations as active
  members of the organization, as either employed staff or board members; and
  (4) have experience delivering technical assistance.
SEC. 6. APPLICATIONS.
  To be eligible to be selected under section 4(b) to receive technical
  assistance provided with grants made under section 4(a), an employer or labor
  union shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such
  manner and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary
  may reasonably require. At a minimum, the application should include--
  (1) a description of the need for technical assistance;
  (2) a description of the types of apprenticeable occupations or
  nontraditional occupations in which the employer or labor union would like
  to train or employ women;
  (3) assurances that there are or will be suitable and appropriate positions
  available in the apprenticeable occupations program or in the nontraditional
  occupations being targeted; and
  (4) commitments that reasonable efforts shall be made to place qualified
  women in apprenticeable occupations or nontraditional occupations.
SEC. 7. LIAISON ROLE OF DEPARTMENT OF LABOR.
  The Department of Labor shall serve as a liaison among employers, labor
  unions, and community-based organizations. The liaison role may include--
  (1) coordination of employers, labor unions, and community-based
  organizations with respect to technical assistance provided under section
  4(a);
  (2) conducting regular assessment meetings with representatives of
  employers, labor unions, and community-based organizations with respect
  to such technical assistance; and
  (3) seeking the input of employers and labor unions with respect to
  strategies and recommendations for improving such technical assistance.
SEC. 8. STUDY OF THE BARRIERS TO THE PARTICIPATION OF WOMEN IN APPRENTICEABLE
OCCUPATIONS AND NONTRADITIONAL OCCUPATIONS.
  (a) STUDY- With funds available to the Secretary to carry out the operations
  of the Department of Labor in fiscal years 1994 and 1995, the Secretary
  shall conduct a study of the participation of women in apprenticeable
  occupations and nontraditional occupations. The study shall examine--
  (1) the barriers to participation of women in apprenticeable occupations
  and nontraditional occupations;
  (2) strategies for overcoming such barriers;
  (3) the retention rates for women in apprenticeable occupations and
  nontraditional occupations;
  (4) strategies for retaining women in apprenticeable occupations and
  nontraditional occupations;
  (5) the effectiveness of the technical assistance provided by the
  community-based organizations; and
  (6) other relevant issues affecting the participation of women in
  apprenticeable occupations and nontraditional occupations.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report containing
  a summary of the results of the study described in subsection (a) and such
  recommendations as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act:
  (1) The term `community-based organization' means a community-based
  organization as defined in section 4(5) of the Job Training Partnership Act
  (29 U.S.C. 1501(5)), that has demonstrated experience administering programs
  that train women for apprenticeable occupations or other nontraditional
  occupations.
  (2) The term `nontraditional occupation' means jobs in which women make
  up 25 percent or less of the total number of workers in that occupation.
  (3) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Labor.
SEC. 10. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.
  There is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out section 4.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.