 
--H.R.2270--
H.R.2270
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Amending certain provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to
the Senior
Executive Service.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Senior Executive Service Improvements Act'.
SEC. 2. PROTECTION AGAINST PAY REDUCTION UPON ENTERING THE SES.
 Section 5383 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) This subsection applies to--
 `(A) any individual who, after serving at least 5 years of current continuous
 service in 1 or more positions in the competitive service, is appointed,
 without any break in service, as a career appointee; and
 `(B) any individual who--
 `(i) holds a position which is converted from the competitive service to
 a career reserved position in the Senior Executive Service; and
 `(ii) as of the conversion date, has at least 5 years of current continuous
 service in 1 or more positions in the competitive service.
 `(2)(A) The initial rate of pay for a career appointee who is appointed
 under the circumstances described in paragraph (1)(A) may not be less than
 the rate of basic pay last payable to that individual immediately before
 being so appointed.
 `(B) The initial rate of pay for a career appointee following the position's
 conversion (as described in paragraph (1)(B)) may not be less than the
 rate of basic pay last payable to that individual immediately before such
 position's conversion.'.
SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO REASSIGN.
 Section 3395(e) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by amending clause (ii) of paragraph (1)(B) to read as follows:
 `(ii) has the authority to make an initial appraisal of the career appointee's
 performance under subchapter II of chapter 43.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end of the following new paragraph:
 `(3) For the purpose of applying paragraph (1) to a career appointee, any
 days (not to exceed a total of 60) during which such career appointee is
 serving pursuant to a detail or other temporary assignment apart from such
 appointee's regular position shall not be counted in determining the number
 of days that have elapsed since an appointment referred to in subparagraph
 (A) or (B) of such paragraph.'.
SEC. 4. ENCOURAGEMENT OF SABBATICALS AND OTHER FORMS OF PROFESSIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BY CAREER APPOINTEES.
 Section 3396(d) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(d)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) In order to promote the professional development of career appointees
 and to assist them in achieving their maximum levels of proficiency,
 the Office shall, in a manner consistent with the needs of the Government
 provide appropriate informational services and otherwise encourage career
 appointees to take advantage of any opportunities relating to--
 `(A) sabbaticals;
 `(B) training; or
 `(C) details or other temporary assignments in other agencies, State or
 local governments, or the private sector.'.
SEC. 5. AUTHORITY TO MITIGATE.
 Section 7701(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) With respect to an appeal from an adverse action covered by subchapter
 V of chapter 75, authority to mitigate the personnel action involved shall
 be available, subject to the same standards as would apply in an appeal
 involving an action covered by subchapter II of chapter 75 with respect to
 which mitigation authority under this section exists.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.