 
--H.R.1176--
H.R.1176
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide authorizations for supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1991
for the Department of State and the Agency for International Development
for certain emergency costs associated with the Persian Gulf conflict,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Foreign Relations Persian Gulf Conflict
 Emergency Supplemental Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1991'.
SEC. 2. SALARIES AND EXPENSES.
 In addition to such amounts as are authorized to be appropriated in section
 101(a)(1) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990
 and 1991, there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 as emergency
 supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1991 for `Salaries and Expenses'
 for the Department of State. Funds authorized to be appropriated under
 this section are designated emergency requirements pursuant to section
 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
 of 1985.
SEC. 3. EMERGENCIES IN THE DIPLOMATIC AND CONSULAR SERVICE.
 In addition to such amounts as are authorized to be appropriated in section
 101(a)(4) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1990
 and 1991, there are authorized to be appropriated $9,300,000 as emergency
 supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 1991 for `Emergencies in
 the Diplomatic and Consular Service' for the Department of State to be
 available only for costs associated with the evacuation of United States
 Government employees (including contractor employees) and their dependents
 and other United States citizens from diplomatic posts. Funds authorized to
 be appropriated under this section are designated emergency requirements
 pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
 Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 4. SPECIAL PURPOSE PASSENGER MOTOR VEHICLES.
 Section 2 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 (22
 U.S.C. 2669) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (j) by striking `and';
 (2) in subsection (k) by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by adding after subsection (k) the following new subsection:
 `(1) purchase special purpose passenger motor vehicles without regard to
 any price limitation otherwise established by law.'.
SEC. 5. AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT EMERGENCY EVACUATION EXPENSES.
 There are authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 as emergency supplemental
 appropriations for fiscal year 1991 for the operating expenses of the
 Agency for International Development. Such funds shall be available
 only for the costs of evacuating United States Government employees and
 personal service contractors, and their dependents, and for subsistence
 allowance payments. Funds authorized to be appropriated under this section
 are designated emergency requirements pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D)(i)
 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 6. BURDENSHARING.
 The Congress--
 (1) takes note of the commendable efforts on the part of the President and
 the Secretary of State to encourage our allies to assist financially in
 the effort to liberate Kuwait; and
 (2) calls on the President and the Secretary of State to take such actions
 as are necessary to ensure that the burdensharing promises made to the
 American people by our allies are fulfilled.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.