 
--H.R.2431--
H.R.2431
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act by designating a segment of the
Lower Merced River in California as a component of the National Wild and
Scenic Rivers System.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF THE LOWER MERCED RIVER FOR INCLUSION IN THE WILD
AND SCENIC RIVERS SYSTEM.
  Section 3(a)(62) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 127(a)(62))
  is hereby amended--
  (1) by striking `The main stem' and inserting in lieu thereof, `(A) The
  main stem';
  (2) by striking `paragraph' whenever it appears and inserting in lieu
  thereof `subparagraph'; and
  (3) by adding the following new subparagraph at the end thereof:
  `(B)(i) The main stem from a point 300 feet upstream of the confluence with
  Bear Creek downstream to the normal maximum operating pool water surface
  level of Lake McClure (elevation 867 feet mean sea level) consisting of
  approximately 8 miles, as generally depicted on the map entitled `Merced Wild
  and Scenic River', dated April, 1990. The Secretary of the Interior shall
  administer the segment as recreational, from a point 300 feet upstream of
  the confluence with Bear Creek downstream to a point 300 feet west of the
  boundary of the Mountain King Mine, and as wild, from a point 300 feet west
  of the boundary of the Mountain King Mine to the normal maximum operating
  pool water surface level of Lake McClure. The requirements of subsection
  (b) of this section shall be fulfilled by the Secretary of the Interior
  through appropriate revisions to the Sierra Management Framework Plan for
  the Sierra Planning Area of the Folsom Resource Area, Bakersfield District,
  Bureau of Land Management. There are authorized to be appropriated such
  sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this subparagraph.
  `(ii) To the extent permitted by, and in a manner consistent with section 7
  of this Act (16 U.S.C. 1278), and in accordance with other applicable law,
  the Secretary of the Interior shall permit the construction and operation
  of such pumping facilities and associated pipelines as identified in the
  Bureau of Land Management right-of-way application CACA 26084, filed by
  the Mariposa County Water Agency on November 7, 1989, and known as the
  `Saxon Creek Project', to assure an adequate supply of water from the
  Merced River to Mariposa County.
  `(C) With respect to the segments of the main stem of the Merced River and
  the South Fork Merced River designated as recreational or scenic pursuant
  to this paragraph or by the appropriate agency pursuant to subsection
  (b), the minerals to Federal lands which constitute the bed or bank or
  are situated within one-quarter mile of the bank are hereby withdrawn,
  subject to valid existing rights, from all forms of appropriation under
  the mining laws and from operation of the mineral leasing laws including,
  in both cases, amendments thereto.'.
SEC. 2. STUDY OF THE NORTH FORK OF THE MERCED RIVER.
  Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, as amended (16
  U.S.C. 1276(a)), is further amended by adding the following new paragraph
  at the end thereof:
  `( ) NORTH FORK MERCED, CALIFORNIA- The segment from its headwaters to its
  confluence with the Merced River, by the Secretary of Agriculture and the
  Secretary of the Interior.'.
SEC. 3. NEW EXCHEQUER PROJECT.
  The designation of the river segments referred to in section 1 of this Act
  as components of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System shall not affect the
  continued operation and maintenance (including flood control operations)
  of the New Exchequer Project (Project No. 2179) as licensed by the Federal
  Energy Regulatory Commission on the date of enactment of this Act or the
  Commission's authority to issue a new license to the existing licensee for
  such project within the project boundaries set forth in the license on the
  date of enactment of this Act: Provided, That if the Commission issues
  a new license to the existing licensee for such a project, the normal
  maximum operating pool water surface level authorized in the project's
  license shall not exceed elevation 867.0 mean sea level.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.