 
--H.R.4178--
H.R.4178
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to provide for a program to carry
out research on the drug known as diethylstilbestrol, to educate health
professionals and the public on the drug, and to provide for certain
longitudinal studies regarding individuals who have been exposed to the drug.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `DES Education and Research Amendments of 1992'.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM REGARDING DES.
  Part A of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281 et
  seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`des
  `SEC. 403A. (a) The Director of NIH shall establish a program for the
  conduct and support of research and training, the dissemination of health
  information, and other programs with respect to the diagnosis and treatment
  of conditions associated with exposure to the drug diethylstilbestrol
  (in this section referred to as `DES').
  `(b) In carrying out subsection (a), the Director of NIH, after consultation
  with nonprofit private entities representing individuals who have been
  exposed to DES, shall conduct or support programs to educate health
  professionals and the public on the drug, including the importance of
  identifying and treating individuals who have been exposed to the drug.
  `(c) After consultation with the Office of Research on Women's Health,
  the Director of NIH, acting through the appropriate national research
  institutes, shall in carrying out subsection (a) conduct or support one
  or more longitudinal studies to determine the incidence of the following
  diseases or disorders in the indicated populations and the relationship
  of DES to the diseases or disorders:
  `(1) In the case of women to whom (on or after January 1, 1938) DES
  was administered while the women were pregnant, the incidence of all
  diseases and disorders (including breast cancer, gynecological cancers,
  and impairments of the immune system, including autoimmune disease).
  `(2) In the case of women exposed to DES in utero, the incidence of clear
  cell cancer (including recurrences), the long-term health effects of such
  cancer, and the effects of treatments for such cancer.
  `(3) In the case of men and women exposed to DES in utero, the incidence
  of all diseases and disorders (including impairments of the reproductive
  and autoimmune systems).
  `(4) In the case of children of men or women exposed to DES in utero,
  the incidence of all diseases and disorders.
  `(d) For purposes of this section, an individual shall be considered to
  have been exposed to DES in utero if, during the pregnancy that resulted
  in the birth of such individual, DES was (on or after January 1, 1938)
  administered to the biological mother of the individual.
  `(e) In addition to any other authorization of appropriations available
  for the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be
  appropriated for such purpose such sums as may be necessary for each of
  the fiscal years 1993 through 1996.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.