 
--H.R.1252--
H.R.1252
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the State Justice Institute to analyze and disseminate information
regarding the admissibility and quality of testimony of witnesses with
expertise relating to battered women, and to develop and disseminate training
materials to increase the use of such experts to provide testimony in criminal
trials of battered women, particularly in cases involving indigent women.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Battered Women's Testimony Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORITY OF STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE.
  The State Justice Institute shall--
  (1) collect nationwide and analyze information regarding--
  (A) the admissibility and quality of expert testimony on the experiences
  of battered women offered as part of the defense in criminal cases under
  State law, and
  (B) sources of, and methods to obtain, funds to pay costs incurred to provide
  such testimony, particularly in cases involving indigent women defendants,
  (2) develop training materials to assist--
  (A) battered women, operators of domestic violence shelters, battered women's
  advocates, and attorneys to use such expert testimony in appropriate cases,
  particularly appropriate cases involving indigent women defendants, and
  (B) individuals with expertise in the experiences of battered women to
  develop skills appropriate to providing such expert testimony, and
  (3) disseminate such information and such training materials, and provide
  related technical assistance, to battered women, such operators, such
  advocates, such attorneys, and such individuals.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
  For purposes of this Act--
  (1) subsections (d) and (e) of section 206 of the State Justice Institute
  Act of 1984, and
  (2) subsections (a) and (b) of section 207 of such Act,
shall apply in the same manner as such subsections apply with respect to
grants and contracts made under such Act.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated $600,000 to carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.