 
--H.R.2130--
H.R.2130
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  Authorization Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this Act, the term--
  (1) `Act of 1890' means the Act entitled `An Act to increase the efficiency
  and reduce the expenses of the Signal Corps of the Army, and to transfer
  the Weather Bureau to the Department of Agriculture', approved October 1,
  1890 (26 Stat. 653); and
  (2) `Act of 1947' means the Act entitled `An Act to define the functions
  and duties of the Coast and Geodetic Survey, and for other purposes',
  approved August 6, 1947 (33 U.S.C. 883a et seq.).
TITLE I--NOAA ATMOSPHERIC AND SATELLITE PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of
  Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to
  carry out the operations and research activities of the National Weather
  Service under law, $311,532,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $395,822,000 for
  fiscal year 1993. Moneys appropriated pursuant to this authorization shall be
  used to fund those activities relating to National Weather Service operations
  and research specified by the Act of 1890, the Act of 1947, and any other
  law involving such activities. Such activities include meteorological,
  hydrological, aviation, and oceanographic public warnings and forecasts,
  as well as applied research in support of such warnings and forecasts.
  (b) PACIFIC WEATHER BUOYS- Of the sums authorized under subsection (a),
  $840,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $1,135,000 for fiscal year 1993 are
  authorized to be appropriated for the purpose of operating and maintaining
  weather buoys off the coast of California, Oregon, Washington, and Hawaii.
  (c) COOPERATIVE WEATHER OBSERVER PROGRAM- The Secretary of Commerce may use
  funds otherwise available for conducting weather observations to strengthen
  the Cooperative Weather Observer Program and encourage public participation
  in the program. The Secretary may--
  (1) provide distinctive insignia or paraphernalia to Cooperative Weather
  Observers; and
  (2) make awards of nominal value to recognize continued participation in
  the program by observers or to recognize outstanding achievements by such
  observers or groups of observers without regard to any law restricting
  expenditures for such purposes to Federal employees.
SEC. 102. PUBLIC WARNING AND FORECAST SYSTEMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
  of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  to improve its public warning and forecast systems under law, $132,034,000
  for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Moneys appropriated pursuant
  to this authorization shall be used to fund those activities relating
  to public warning and forecast systems specified by the Act of 1890, the
  Act of 1947, and any other law involving such activities. Such activities
  include the development, acquisition, and implementation of major public
  warning and forecast systems.
  (b) WEATHER RADAR COMPLETE PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION- (1) Except as provided
  in paragraph (2), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
  of Commerce for all fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 1993, not to
  exceed $426,971,000, to remain available until expended, to complete the
  acquisition and deployment of the Next Generation Weather Radar system,
  and to cover all associated activities (including program management and
  operations and maintenance through September 30, 1996).
  (2) None of the funds are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year
  under paragraph (1), unless, within 60 days after the submission of the
  President's budget request for such fiscal year, the Secretary of Commerce--
  (A) certifies to the Congress that--
  (i) the radars, including system software, meet the technical performance
  specifications included in the radar procurement contract as in effect on
  October 1, 1992;
  (ii) the system contract is viable, and the Secretary does not foresee
  circumstances which would prevent fulfillment of the contract;
  (iii) the system can be fully sited, commissioned, and operational without
  requiring further authorization of appropriations beyond amounts authorized
  under paragraph (1); and
  (iv) the Secretary does not foresee further delays in the system deployment
  and operation schedule; or
  (B) submits to the Congress a report which describes--
  (i) the circumstances which prevent a certification under subparagraph (A);
  (ii) remedial actions undertaken or to be undertaken with respect to such
  circumstances;
  (iii) the effects of such circumstances on the deployment and operation
  schedule and radar coverage; and
  (iv) a justification for proceeding with the program, if appropriate.
SEC. 103. CLIMATE AND AIR QUALITY RESEARCH.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
  of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  to carry out its climate and air quality research activities under law,
  $100,718,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $103,877,000 for fiscal year
  1993. Moneys appropriated pursuant to this authorization shall be used
  to fund those activities relating to climate and air quality research
  specified by the Act of 1890, the Act of 1947, and any other law involving
  such activities. Such activities include interannual and seasonal climate
  research, long-term climate and air quality research, and the National
  Climate Program.
  (b) CLIMATE AND GLOBAL CHANGE- Of the sums authorized under subsection (a),
  $67,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 are authorized to
  be appropriated for the purpose of studying climate and global change. Such
  program shall augment and integrate existing programs of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration and shall include global observations,
  monitoring, and data and information management relating to the study of
  changes in the Earth's climatic system, fundamental research on critical
  oceanic and atmospheric processes, and climate prediction and diagnostics.
SEC. 104. ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce, to
  enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out
  its atmospheric research activities under law, $43,935,000 for fiscal year
  1992 and $44,781,000 for fiscal year 1993. Moneys appropriated pursuant
  to this authorization shall be used to fund those activities relating to
  atmospheric research specified by the Act of 1890 and by any other law
  involving such activities. Such activities include research for developing
  improved observation and prediction capabilities for atmospheric processes,
  as well as solar-terrestrial services and research.
SEC. 105. SATELLITE OBSERVING SYSTEMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out its satellite observing systems activities under
  law, $305,744,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $336,000,000 for fiscal year
  1993. Moneys appropriated pursuant to this authorization shall be used to
  fund those activities relating to data and information services specified
  by the Act of 1890 and by any other law involving such activities. Such
  activities include spacecraft procurement, launch, and associated ground
  station modifications for polar orbiting and geostationary environmental
  satellite systems, as well as the operation of such satellites and land
  remote-sensing satellites.
  (2) Of the sums authorized under paragraph (1), $2,300,000 in fiscal year
  1993 are authorized for the administration by the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration of the ground stations for the Search and Rescue
  Satellite Aided Tracking system. Such administration shall be carried out
  in consultation with the Department of Transportation and the Department
  of Defense.
  (b) EMERGENCY CONTINGENCY FUND- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the Secretary of Commerce, $110,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, to
  be deposited in an Emergency Weather Satellite Contingency Fund. Such
  Fund shall be available subject to the restrictions of appropriations
  Acts, without fiscal year limitation, to the Secretary only for the
  purpose of enabling the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  to maintain geostationary environmental satellite coverage for monitoring
  and prediction of hurricanes and severe storms, including but not limited
  to the procurement of gap filler satellites, launch vehicles, and payments
  to foreign governments.
  (c) STRATEGIC PLAN- (1) The Secretary of Commerce and the Administrator of
  the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall jointly develop
  and, not more than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
  Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
  Representatives a strategic plan for development, procurement, and operation
  of the environmental satellite program of the Department of Commerce.
  (2) The objectives of the strategic plan shall be--
  (A) to ensure continuous and adequate operational environmental satellite
  coverage; and
  (B) to require direct Federal fiscal and administrative accountability in
  all aspects of such environmental satellite program.
  (3) The strategic plan shall--
  (A) delineate the management duties and functions of each Federal department
  or agency involved in such satellite program;
  (B) establish funding responsibilities for each Federal department or agency
  in a manner which reflects their respective management duties and functions;
  (C) set forth procedures to be followed in the development, procurement,
  and operations of environmental satellites in such program;
  (D) minimize the potential for developmental and procurement problems,
  and for cost overruns;
  (E) provide for effective interagency and international coordination;
  (F) provide for research and development activities to ensure that the
  procurement of operational environmental satellites relies on proven
  technologies, and to investigate potential improvements in data applications
  and operations for such satellites in order to improve the national weather
  warning and forecast system; and
  (G) specify legislative and administrative actions necessary to implement
  the plan and to accomplish the objectives described in paragraph (2).
  (d) GEOSTATIONARY SATELLITE COMPLETE PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION- (1) Except
  as provided in paragraph (2), there are authorized to be appropriated to
  the Secretary of Commerce for all fiscal years beginning with fiscal year
  1993, not to exceed $1,005,255,000, to remain available until expended,
  to complete the procurement of Geostationary Operational Environmental
  Satellites I, J, K, L, and M, and the procurement of the launching and
  supporting ground systems of such satellites.
  (2) None of the funds are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal year
  under paragraph (1), unless, within 60 days after the submission of the
  President's budget request for such fiscal year, the Secretary of Commerce--
  (A) certifies to the Congress that--
  (i) the results of testing indicate that the satellite instruments are
  likely to meet the technical performance specifications included in the
  satellite contract as in effect on October 1, 1992;
  (ii) the procurements can be completed without requiring further
  authorization of appropriations beyond amounts authorized under paragraph
  (1); and
  (iii) the Secretary foresees no gap in two-satellite service operations
  resulting from non-performance of the satellite contract; or
  (B) submits to the Congress a report which describes--
  (i) the circumstances which prevent a certification under subparagraph (A);
  (ii) remedial actions undertaken or to be undertaken with respect to such
  circumstances;
  (iii) the effects of such circumstances on the launch schedule and satellite
  coverage; and
  (iv) a justification for proceeding with the program, if appropriate.
SEC. 106. DATA AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of
  Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  to carry out its data and information services activities under law,
  $32,628,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $39,596,000 for fiscal year 1993. Moneys
  appropriated pursuant to this authorization shall be used to fund those
  activities relating to data and information services specified by the Act
  of 1890 and by any other law involving such activities. Such activities
  include climate data services, ocean data services, geophysical data
  services, and environmental assessment and information services.
  (b) MODERNIZATION INITIATIVE- Of the sums authorized under subsection (a),
  $10,000,000 in fiscal year 1992 and $15,000,000 in fiscal year 1993 are
  authorized to be appropriated for the purpose of modernizing the data and
  information systems of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  to meet increasing requirements for managing, archiving, and distributing
  environmental data and information.
  (c) NEEDS ASSESSMENT FOR DATA MANAGEMENT, ARCHIVAL, AND DISTRIBUTION-
  (1) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act and
  at least biennially thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce shall complete an
  assessment of the adequacy of the environmental data and information systems
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. In conducting such
  an assessment, the Secretary shall take into consideration the need to--
  (A) provide adequate capacity to manage, archive, and disseminate
  environmental data and information collected and processed, or expected
  to be collected and processed, by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration and other appropriate departments and agencies;
  (B) establish, develop, and maintain information bases, including necessary
  management systems, which will promote consistent, efficient, and compatible
  transfer and use of data;
  (C) develop effective interfaces among the environmental data and information
  systems of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other
  appropriate departments and agencies;
  (D) develop and use nationally accepted formats and standards for data
  collected by various national and international sources; and
  (E) integrate and interpret data from different sources to produce
  information that can be used by decisionmakers in developing policies that
  effectively respond to national and global environmental concerns.
  (2) Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act
  and biennially thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce shall develop and
  submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
  Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of
  Representatives a comprehensive plan, based on the assessment under paragraph
  (1), to modernize and improve the environmental data and information systems
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The report shall--
  (A) set forth modernization and improvement objectives for the 10-year
  period beginning with the year in which the plan is submitted, including
  facility requirements and critical new technological components that would
  be necessary to meet the objectives set forth;
  (B) propose specific agency programs and activities for implementing
  the plan;
  (C) identify the data and information management, archival, and distribution
  responsibilities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  with respect to other Federal departments and agencies and international
  organizations, including the role of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration with respect to large data systems like the Earth Observing
  System Data and Information System; and
  (D) provide an implementation schedule and estimate funding levels necessary
  to achieve modernization and improvement objectives.
SEC. 107. HURRICANE RECONNAISSANCE PROGRAM.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- (1) The Secretary of Defense and the
  Secretary of Commerce shall establish a 5-year joint program for collecting
  operational and reconnaissance data, conducting research, and analyzing
  data on tropical cyclones to assist the forecast and warning program and
  increase the understanding of the causes and behavior of tropical cyclones.
  (2) The Secretary of Commerce shall establish the Tropical Cyclone Research
  Advisory Committee, an advisory committee of tropical cyclone research
  scientists, to make recommendations for tropical cyclone research activities
  and reconnaissance procedures.
  (b) RESPONSIBILITIES- (1) The Secretary of Defense shall have the
  responsibility for maintaining, flying, and funding tropical cyclone
  reconnaissance aircraft to accomplish the program established under this
  section and to transfer the data to the Secretary of Commerce. Program
  responsibility may not be transferred to any other Federal department or
  agency, including the Coast Guard, without the agreement and approval of the
  Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the head of any other
  Federal agency or department to which the responsibility is transferred.
  (2) The Secretary of Commerce shall have the responsibility to provide
  funding for data gathering and research by remote sensing, ground sensing,
  research aircraft, and other technologies necessary to accomplish the
  program established under this section.
  (c) MANAGEMENT PLANS- (1) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of
  Commerce shall jointly develop and, within 120 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, submit to the Congress a management plan for the
  program established under this section, which shall include organizational
  structure, goals, major tasks, and funding profiles for the 5-year duration
  of the program.
  (2) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation
  with the Tropical Cyclone Research Advisory Committee established by section
  107(a)(2), shall jointly develop and, within 4 years after the date of
  enactment of this Act, submit to the Congress a management plan providing
  for continued tropical cyclone surveillance and reconnaissance which will
  adequately protect the citizens of the coastal areas of the United States.
  (3) The management plans and programs required by this section shall in
  every sense provide for at least the same degree and quality of protection
  (such as early warning capability and accuracy of fixing a storm's location)
  as currently exists with a combination of satellite technology and manned
  reconnaissance flights. Additionally, such plans and programs shall in no way
  allow any reduction in the level, quality, timeliness, sustainability, or
  area served (including the State of Hawaii) of both the existing principal
  and back-up tropical cyclone reconnaissance and tracking systems.
SEC. 108. UNITED STATES WEATHER RESEARCH PROGRAM.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the
  Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology
  through the Committee on Earth and Environmental Sciences, shall establish
  a United States Weather Research Program to--
  (1) increase benefits to the Nation from the substantial investment in
  modernizing the public weather warning and forecast system in the United
  States;
  (2) improve local and regional weather forecasts and warnings;
  (3) address critical weather-related scientific issues; and
  (4) coordinate governmental, university, and private-sector efforts.
  (b) IMPLEMENTATION PLAN- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Committee on
  Earth and Environmental Sciences, shall prepare and submit to the Committee
  on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on
  Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a plan for
  implementation of the United States Weather Research Program which shall--
  (1) establish, for the 10-year period beginning in the year the plan is
  submitted, the goals and priorities for Federal weather research which most
  effectively advance the scientific understanding of weather processes and
  provide information to improve weather warning and forecast systems in
  the United States;
  (2) describe specific activities, including research activities, data
  collection and data analysis requirements, predictive modeling, participation
  in international research efforts, demonstration of potential operational
  forecast applications, and education and training required to achieve such
  goals and priorities; and
  (3) set forth the role of each Federal agency and department to be involved
  in the United States Weather Research Program, identifying and addressing,
  as appropriate, relevant programs and activities of the Federal agencies
  and departments that would contribute to such Program.
SEC. 109. WEATHER SERVICE OFFICE IN RENO, NEVADA.
  (a) FACILITY ACQUISITION- The Administrator of the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration is authorized--
  (1) to construct, on approximately 10 acres of land to be leased from the
  University of Nevada System, Desert Research Institute, or
  (2) in the alternative, to acquire by lease construction on such land,
  with a lease term of up to 30 years,
a Weather Forecast Office, upper air facility, regional climate center, and
associated instruments and site improvements as part of the implementation of
the Next Generation Weather Radar and National Weather Service Modernization
Program for the Reno, Nevada area. This authorization is subject to the
availability of appropriations provided in advance for the purpose stated
in paragraph (1) or (2).
  (b) REIMBURSEMENT AUTHORITY- The Administrator is authorized to reimburse
  the Desert Research Institute for the cost of providing utilities and
  access to the site.
  (c) OPERATIONS- The Administrator is authorized to carry out the operations
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in such facility.
SEC. 110. WEATHER SERVICE FACILITIES IN SOUTH FLORIDA.
  (a) CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITY- The Administrator of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration is authorized to construct, on land to be
  leased from Florida International University at the University's Tamiami
  campus, a facility for the National Hurricane Center, a Weather Forecast
  Office, an upper air facility, and associated site improvements as part
  of the implementation of the Next Generation Weather Radar and National
  Weather Service Modernization Program for the South Florida area. This
  authorization is subject to the availability of appropriations provided
  in advance for the purpose stated in this subsection.
  (b) OPERATIONS- The Administrator is authorized to carry out the operations
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in such facility.
SEC. 111. WEATHER FORECAST OFFICE, HONOLULU.
  (a) FACILITY ACQUISITION- (1) The Administrator of the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration is authorized to lease building and associated
  space from the University of Hawaii, Honolulu, for the operation of
  a Weather Forecast Office, as part of the implementation of the Next
  Generation Weather Radar and National Weather Service Modernization Program
  for the State of Hawaii, for a term of up to 20 years. This authorization
  is subject to the availability of appropriations provided in advance for
  the purpose stated in this paragraph.
  (2) Rental costs for the space leased under paragraph (1) shall not exceed
  fair annual rental value as established by governmental appraisal.
  (b) ALTERATIONS- The Administrator is authorized to expend funds to make
  all necessary alterations to the space to allow for operation of a Weather
  Forecast Office.
  (c) OPERATIONS- The Administrator is authorized to carry out the operations
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  in such facility.
SEC. 112. INSTITUTE FOR AVIATION WEATHER PREDICTION.
  The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  shall establish an Institute for Aviation Weather Prediction. The Institute
  shall provide forecasts, weather warnings, and other weather services to
  the United States aviation community. The Institute shall expand upon the
  activities of the aviation unit currently at the National Severe Storms
  Forecast Center in Kansas City, Missouri, and shall be established in
  the Kansas City, Missouri area. The Administrator shall provide a full
  and fair opportunity for employees at the National Severe Storms Forecast
  Center to assume comparable duties and responsibilities within the Institute.
SEC. 113. WEATHER SERVICE OFFICE IN OKLAHOMA.
  (a) FACILITY ACQUISITION- (1) The  Administrator of the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration is authorized to lease building and associated
  space to be constructed by the University of Oklahoma, Norman, for the
  operation of the National Severe Storms Laboratory, Weather Forecast Office,
  NEXRAD Operational Support Facility, and National Institute for Storm
  Prediction as part of the implementation of the Next Generation Weather
  Radar and National Weather Service Modernization Program, for a term
  of up to 20 years. This authorization is subject to the availability of
  appropriations provided in advance for the purpose stated in this paragraph.
  (2) Rental costs for the space leased under paragraph (1) shall not exceed
  fair annual rental value as established by governmental appraisal.
  (b) ALTERATIONS- The  Administrator is authorized to expend funds to make
  all necessary alterations to the space to allow for operations listed in
  subsection (a)(1).
  (c) OPERATIONS- The  Administrator is authorized to carry out the operations
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  in such facility.
SEC. 114. TRANSFER OF DATA ARCHIVING RESPONSIBILITY.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) section 602 of the Land Remote-Sensing Commercialization Act of 1984
  (15 U.S.C. 4272) directs the Secretary of Commerce to provide for the
  archiving of land remote-sensing data for historical, scientific, and
  technical purposes, including long-term global environmental monitoring;
  (2) the Secretary of Commerce currently provides for the archiving
  of Landsat data at the Department of the Interior's EROS Data Center,
  which is consistent with the requirement of section 602(g) of such Act
  (15 U.S.C. 4272(g)) to use existing Federal Government facilities to the
  extent practicable in carrying out this archiving responsibility;
  (3) the Landsat data collected since 1972 are an important global data
  set for monitoring and assessing land resources and global change;
  (4) the Secretary of the Interior maintains archives of aerial photography,
  digital cartographic data, and other Earth science data at the EROS Data
  Center that also are important data sets for monitoring and assessing land
  resources and global change;
  (5) it is appropriate to transfer authority to the Secretary of the Interior
  for the archiving of land remote-sensing data; and
  (6) the Secretary of the Interior should explore ways to facilitate the
  use of archived data for research purposes consistent with other provisions
  of the Land Remote-Sensing Commercialization Act of 1984.
  (b) PROVISION OF UNENHANCED DATA- Section 402(b)(4) of the Land
  Remote-Sensing Commercialization Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4242(b)(4)) is
  amended by inserting `of the Interior' immediately after `Secretary'.
  (c) ARCHIVING OF DATA- Section 602 of the Land Remote-Sensing
  Commercialization Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4272) is amended--
  (1) in subsections (b), (c), (d), (f), and (g), by inserting `of the
  Interior' immediately after `Secretary' each place it appears; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(h) in carrying out the functions of this section, the Secretary of
  the Interior shall consult with the Secretary to ensure that archiving
  activities are consistent with the terms and conditions of any contract
  or agreement entered into under title II, III, or V of this Act and with
  any license issued under title IV of this Act.'.
SEC. 115. WEATHER OFFICE IN EUREKA, CALIFORNIA.
  Notwithstanding any other law, any property and improvements to that property
  located on Woodley Island in the city of Eureka, California, that are--
  (1) acquired by the Secretary of Commerce from Humboldt Bay Harbor Recreation
  and Conservation District, California, for use as a weather forecasting
  office; and
  (2) determined by the Secretary to be excess property,
shall revert to that district.
SEC. 116. REPORT ON SATELLITE OCEANOGRAPHY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering,
  and Technology through the Committee on Earth and Environmental Sciences, in
  consultation with Federal, academic, and commercial users of remotely sensed
  data, shall consider and develop findings and recommendations regarding--
  (1) the most urgent current needs of oceanographic researchers within the
  Federal Government, the academic community, and the private sector, for
  remote sensing capabilities and remotely sensed data, including findings
  regarding the present inadequacies in these capabilities and data; and
  (2) the major goals of satellite oceanography for the next 10 years.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering, and Technology
  shall submit to the Congress a report which describes the findings and
  recommendations of the Committee on Earth and Environmental Sciences,
  including recommendations for, or a description of actions to be taken
  toward--
  (1) correcting the inadequacies in remote sensing capabilities;
  (2) improving the availability of remotely sensed data; and
  (3) achieving the major goals of satellite oceanography developed pursuant
  to subsection (a)(2).
TITLE II--NOAA OCEAN AND COASTAL PROGRAMS
SEC. 201. NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE.
  (a) MAPPING, CHARTING, AND GEODESY- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out mapping, charting, and geodesy activities
  (including geodetic data collection and analysis) under the Act of 1947
  and any other law involving those activities, $50,917,000 for fiscal year
  1992 and $51,087,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (b) OBSERVATION AND ASSESSMENT- There are authorized to be appropriated to
  the Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out observation and assessment activities--
  (1) under the Act of 1947 and any other law involving those activities,
  $57,273,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $57,273,000 for fiscal year 1993; and
  (2) under title II of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
  Act of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.), $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1992
  and $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (c) COASTAL OCEAN PROGRAM- Of the sums authorized under subsection
  (b)(1), $17,352,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 are
  authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of conducting a Coastal
  Ocean Program. Such program shall augment and integrate existing programs
  of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and shall include
  efforts to improve predictions of fish stocks, to better conserve and
  manage living marine resources, to improve predictions of coastal ocean
  pollution to help correct and prevent degradation of the ocean environment,
  to promote development of ocean technology to support the effort of science
  to understand and characterize the role oceans play in global climate and
  environmental analysis, and to improve predictions of coastal hazards to
  protect human life and personal property.
  (d) LONG ISLAND SOUND CIRCULATION MODEL- No moneys appropriated pursuant
  to the authorizations in this Act shall be used to conduct analyses of
  samples collected under the National Status and Trends Program until the
  Policy Committee of the Long Island Sound Study certifies that the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has completed the water circulation
  model for Long Island Sound.
  (e) CIRCULATION MODEL FUNDING- Of the sums authorized under subsection
  (b) for fiscal year 1992, $600,000 is available for completion of the
  water circulation model for Long Island Sound and $400,000 is available
  for National Status and Trends Program stations in Long Island Sound.
  (f) OCEAN MANAGEMENT- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out ocean management activities, $1,678,000 for
  fiscal year 1992 and $1,823,000 for fiscal year 1993.
SEC. 202. OCEAN AND GREAT LAKES RESEARCH.
  (a) OCEAN AND GREAT LAKES RESEARCH AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized
  to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out ocean and Great Lakes
  research activities under the Act of 1947, the Act of 1890, and any other
  law involving those activities, $32,171,000 for fiscal year 1992 and
  $39,800,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (b) COOPERATIVE INSTITUTE FOR LIMNOLOGY AND ECOSYSTEMS RESEARCH- In
  addition to amounts authorized under subsection (a), there are authorized
  to be appropriated to the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research of the
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration $250,000 for fiscal year 1992
  and $260,000 for fiscal year 1993, for use by the Cooperative Institute for
  Limnology and Ecosystems Research (established in partnership with the State
  of Michigan and the Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory) for--
  (1) research conducted by the Institute;
  (2) development of the Institute; and
  (3) for preparation of a five-year plan for research and development.
  (c) LARGE LAKES RESEARCH- (1) In addition to amounts authorized under
  subsections (a) and (b), there are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary of Commerce for use by the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Research $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $2,080,000 for fiscal year
  1993 for use for preparing a plan for large lakes research.
  (2) Amounts appropriated under this subsection may be used for--
  (A) preparation of a 5-year plan designating large lake study sites,
  research activities, and anticipated research products; and
  (B) collection of physical, chemical, and biological data required for
  preparing that plan.
  (3) Activities conducted with amounts appropriated under this subsection
  shall be coordinated through the Great Lakes Environmental Research
  Laboratory, working in association with the Cooperative Institute for
  Limnology and Ecosystems Research and the National Undersea Research Program.
SEC. 203. AQUATIC NUISANCE PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROGRAM.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the Secretary of Commerce $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $11,440,000
  for fiscal year 1993 for use in implementing the Nonindigenous Aquatic
  Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-646).
  (b) REPORT- Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall submit a report to the Congress on
  progress toward establishing a nonindigenous aquatic nuisance prevention and
  control program within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  and projected funding for such a program for the following five fiscal years.
SEC. 204. REPEAL OF NATIONAL OCEAN POLLUTION PLANNING ACT OF 1978.
  The National Ocean Pollution Planning Act of 1978 (33 U.S.C. 1701-1709)
  is repealed.
SEC. 205. NOAA OIL AND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE SPILL COST REIMBURSEMENT.
  (a) TREATMENT OF AMOUNTS RECEIVED AS REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES-
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, amounts received by the
  United States as reimbursement of expenses related to oil or hazardous
  substance spill response activities, or natural resource damage assessment,
  restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, or acquisition activities,
  conducted (or to be conducted) by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration--
  (1) shall be deposited into the Fund;
  (2) shall be available, without fiscal year limitation and without
  apportionment, for use in accordance with the law under which the activities
  are conducted; and
  (3) shall not be considered to be an augmentation of appropriations.
  (b) APPLICATION- Subsection (a) shall apply to amounts described in
  subsection (a) that are received--
  (1) after the date of the enactment of this Act; or
  (2) with respect to the oil spill associated with the grounding of the
  EXXON VALDEZ.
  (c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `Fund' means the Damage Assessment and Restoration Revolving
  Fund of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration referred to
  in title I of Public Law 101-515 under the heading `National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration' (104 Stat. 2105); and
  (2) the term `expenses' includes incremental and base salaries, ships,
  aircraft, and associated indirect costs, except the term does not include
  base salaries and benefits of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  Support Coordinators.
TITLE III--NOAA MARINE FISHERY PROGRAMS
SEC 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Marine Fisheries
  Program Authorization Act (Public Law 98-210; 97 Stat. 1409) is amended--
  (1) in section 2(a) by striking `$26,500,000' and all that follows through
  `fiscal year 1989' and inserting in lieu thereof `$47,933,000 for fiscal
  year 1992 and $59,162,000 for fiscal year 1993';
  (2) in section 3(a) by striking `$35,000,000' the first time it appears and
  all that follows through `fiscal year 1989' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `$27,290,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $35,594,000 for fiscal year 1993'; and
  (3) in section 4(a) by striking `$10,000,000' and all that follows through
  `fiscal year 1989' and inserting in lieu thereof `$12,182,000 for fiscal
  year 1992 and $18,838,000 for fiscal year 1993'.
SEC. 302. DEVELOPMENT OF DOLPHIN-SAFE METHODS OF TUNA FISHING.
  Section 2 of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Marine
  Fisheries Program Authorization Act (Public Law 98-210; 97 Stat. 1409)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(d) Of the sums authorized under subsection (a) of this section,
  $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 are authorized to
  be appropriated for the purpose of developing dolphin-safe methods of
  locating and catching yellowfin tuna. Such authorization shall be in
  addition to moneys authorized under section 7 of the Act entitled `An
  Act to improve the operation of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972,
  and for other purposes', approved October 9, 1981 (16 U.S.C. 1384). Within
  six months after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary,
  in cooperation with the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission and after
  consultation with interested persons, shall publish a program plan for
  public comment that shall provide for--
  `(1) cooperative research to improve understanding of the behavioral
  association of dolphins and yellowfin tuna in the eastern tropical Pacific
  Ocean;
  `(2) development, testing, and implementation of new methods of locating
  and catching yellowfin tuna without the incidental taking of dolphins; and
  `(3) appropriate measures to ensure program participation and sharing of
  associated costs by each foreign government that conducts, or authorizes
  its nationals to conduct, yellowfin tuna fishing in the eastern tropical
  Pacific Ocean.'.
SEC. 303. FISHERIES RESEARCH.
  Section 304(e) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16
  U.S.C. 1854(e)) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3),
  and any reference thereto, as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively,
  and by inserting immediately after `FISHERIES RESEARCH- ' the following:
  `(1) The Secretary shall initiate and maintain, in cooperation with the
  Councils, a comprehensive program of fishery research to carry out and
  further the purposes, policy, and provisions of this Act. Such program shall
  be designed to acquire knowledge and information, including statistics, on
  fishery conservation and management and on the economics of the fisheries.'.
SEC 304. FISHERY FACILITIES.
  Section 1101(k) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1271(k)),
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (1);
  (2) by adding `or' at the end of paragraph (2); and
  (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
  `(3) for aquaculture, including operations on land or elsewhere--
  `(A) any structure or appurtenance thereto designed for aquaculture;
  `(B) the land necessary for any such structure or appurtenance described
  in subparagraph (A);
  `(C) equipment which is for use in connection with any such structure or
  appurtenance and which is necessary for the performance of any function
  referred to in subparagraph (A); and
  `(D) any vessel built in the United States used for, equipped to be used
  for, or of a type which is normally used for aquaculture;'.
SEC. 305. STUDY OF JOINT ENFORCEMENT OF FISHERIES REGULATIONS.
  Not later than 4 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary of Commerce shall submit to
  the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
  Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives
  a joint report describing methods by which Coast Guard enforcement efforts
  in the western Pacific Ocean under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
  Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) may be enhanced and coordinated
  with those of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The
  report shall--
  (1) evaluate the ability of the Coast Guard to address key enforcement
  problems, which the Secretary of Commerce shall identify, for the western
  Pacific Ocean, particularly in the exclusive economic zone adjacent to
  the Hawaiian Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the territories
  and possessions of the United States;
  (2) propose procedures by which the Coast Guard and the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration may coordinate their efforts to improve
  and maximize effective enforcement of fisheries regulations, including but
  not limited to the chartering of light aircraft for fisheries surveillance
  and enforcement; and
  (3) recommend appropriate levels of Coast Guard participation in such
  efforts.
SEC. 306. STUDY ON EFFECTS OF DOLPHIN FEEDING.
  (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Commerce shall conduct a study in the eastern
  Gulf of Mexico on the effects of feeding of noncaptive dolphins by human
  beings. The study conducted pursuant to this section shall be designed to
  detect any behavior or diet modification resulting from this feeding and
  to identify the effects, if any, of these modifications on the health and
  well-being of the dolphins.
  (b) EXTERNAL REVIEW- In design and conduct of the study required under
  subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the National Academy of
  Sciences and the Marine Mammal Commission.
  (c) REPORT- Within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Merchant Marine and
  Fisheries of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the results of the
  study conducted pursuant to subsection (a).
SEC. 307. CHESAPEAKE BAY ESTUARINE RESOURCES OFFICE.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- (1) The Secretary of Commerce shall establish, within
  the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, an office to be known
  as the Chesapeake Bay Estuarine Resources Office (hereinafter referred to
  as the `Office').
  (2) The Office shall be headed by a Director who shall be appointed by the
  Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Chesapeake Bay Executive
  Council. Any individual appointed as Director shall have knowledge and
  experience in research or resource management efforts in the Chesapeake Bay.
  (3) The Director may appoint such additional personnel for the Office as
  the Director determines necessary to carry out this section.
  (b) FUNCTIONS- The Office, in consultation with the Chesapeake Bay Executive
  Council, shall--
  (1) provide technical assistance to the Administrator, to other Federal
  departments and agencies, and to State and local government agencies in--
  (A) assessing the processes that shape the Chesapeake Bay system and affect
  its living resources;
  (B) identifying technical and management alternatives for the restoration
  and protection of living resources and the habitats they depend upon; and
  (C) monitoring the implementation and effectiveness of management plans;
  (2) develop and implement a strategy for the National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration that integrates the science, research,
  monitoring, data collection, regulatory, and management responsibilities of
  the Secretary of Commerce in such a manner as to assist the cooperative,
  intergovernmental Chesapeake Bay Program to meet the commitments of the
  Chesapeake Bay Agreement;
  (3) coordinate the programs and activities of the various organizations
  within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and the
  Chesapeake Bay Regional Sea Grant Programs (including programs and
  activities in coastal and estuarine research, monitoring, and assessment;
  fisheries research and stock assessments; data management; remote sensing;
  coastal management; and habitat conservation);
  (4) coordinate the activities of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration with the activities of the Environmental Protection Agency
  and other Federal, State, and local agencies;
  (5) establish an effective mechanism which shall ensure that projects have
  undergone appropriate peer review and provide other appropriate means to
  determine that projects have acceptable scientific and technical merit
  for the purpose of achieving maximum utilization of available funds and
  resources to benefit the Chesapeake Bay area;
  (6) remain cognizant of ongoing research, monitoring, and management
  projects and assist in the dissemination of the results and findings of
  those projects; and
  (7) submit a biennial report to the Congress and the Secretary of Commerce
  with respect to the activities of the Office and on the progress made
  in protecting and restoring the living resources and habitat of the
  Chesapeake Bay.
  (c) BUDGET LINE ITEM- The Secretary of Commerce shall identify, in the
  President's annual budget to the Congress, the funding request for the
  Office.
  (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 2 of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration Marine Fisheries Program Authorization Act
  (Public Law 98-210; 97 Stat. 1409), as amended by section 302 of this Act,
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(e) Of the sums authorized under subsection (a) of this section, no
  more than $2,500,000 are authorized to be appropriated for each of the
  fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to establish the Chesapeake Bay Estuarine Resources Office
  under section 306 of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
  Authorization Act of 1991. No more than 20 percent of the amount appropriated
  under the authorization in this subsection shall be used for administrative
  purposes.'.
  (e) CHESAPEAKE EXECUTIVE COUNCIL- For purposes of this section, `Chesapeake
  Executive Council' means the representatives from the Commonwealth
  of Virginia, the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
  the Environmental Protection Agency, the District of Columbia, and the
  Chesapeake Bay Commission, who are signatories to the Chesapeake Bay
  Agreement, and any future signatories to that Agreement.
SEC. 308. NATIONAL SHELLFISH INDICATOR PROGRAM.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF A RESEARCH PROGRAM- The Secretary of Commerce,
  in cooperation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the
  Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, shall establish
  and administer a 5-year national shellfish research program (hereafter in
  this section referred to as the `Program') for the purpose of improving
  existing classification systems for shellfish growing waters using the
  latest technological advancements in microbiology and epidemiological
  methods. Within 12 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the advisory committee established
  under subsection (b) and the Consortium, shall develop a comprehensive
  5-year plan for the Program which shall at a minimum provide for--
  (1) an environmental assessment of commercial shellfish growing areas in
  the United States, including an evaluation of the relationships between
  indicators of fecal contamination and human enteric pathogens;
  (2) the evaluation of such relationships with respect to potential health
  hazards associated with human consumption of shellfish;
  (3) a comparison of the current microbiological methods used for evaluating
  indicator bacteria and human enteric pathogens in shellfish and shellfish
  growing waters with new technological methods designed for this purpose;
  (4) the evaluation of current and projected systems for human sewage
  treatment in eliminating viruses and other human enteric pathogens which
  accumulate in shellfish;
  (5) the design of epidemiological studies to relate microbiological data,
  sanitary survey data, and human shellfish consumption data to actual
  hazards to health associated with such consumption; and
  (6) recommendations for revising Federal shellfish standards and improving
  the capabilities of Federal and State agencies to effectively manage
  shellfish and ensure the safety of shellfish intended for human consumption.
  (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- (1) For the purpose of providing oversight of
  the Program on a continuing basis, an advisory committee (hereafter in
  this section referred to as the `Committee') shall be established under
  a memorandum of understanding between the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation
  Conference and the National Marine Fisheries Service.
  (2) The Committee shall--
  (A) identify priorities for achieving the purpose of the Program;
  (B) review and recommend approval or disapproval of Program work plans
  and plans of operation;
  (C) review and comment on all subcontracts and grants to be awarded under
  the Program;
  (D) receive and review progress reports from the Consortium and program
  subcontractors and grantees; and
  (E) provide such other advice on the Program as is appropriate.
  (3) The Committee shall consist of at least ten members and shall include--
  (A) three members representing agencies having authority under State law
  to regulate the shellfish industry, of whom one shall represent each of
  the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf of Mexico shellfish growing regions;
  (B) three members representing persons engaged in the shellfish industry
  in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf of Mexico shellfish growing regions (who
  shall be appointed from among at least six recommendations by the industry
  members of the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference Executive Board),
  of whom one shall represent the shellfish industry in each region;
  (C) three members, of whom one shall represent each of the following
  Federal agencies: the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the
  Environmental Protection Agency, and the Food and Drug Administration; and
  (D) one member representing the Shellfish Institute of North America.
  (4) The Chairman of the Committee shall be selected from among the Committee
  members described in paragraph (3)(A).
  (5) The Committee shall establish and maintain a subcommittee of scientific
  experts to provide advice, assistance, and information relevant to research
  funded under the Program, except that no individual who is awarded, or whose
  application is being considered for, a grant or subcontract under the Program
  may serve on such subcommittee. The membership of the subcommittee shall,
  to the extent practicable, be regionally balanced with experts who have
  scientific knowledge concerning each of the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf of
  Mexico shellfish growing regions. Scientists from the National Academy of
  Sciences and appropriate Federal agencies (including the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration, Food and Drug Administration, Centers for
  Disease Control, National Institutes of Health, Environmental Protection
  Agency, and National Science Foundation) shall be considered for membership
  on the subcommittee.
  (6) Members of the Committee and its scientific subcommittee established
  under this subsection shall not be paid for serving on the Committee or
  subcommittee, but shall receive travel expenses as authorized by section
  5703 of title 5, United States Code.
  (c) CONTRACT WITH CONSORTIUM- Within 30 days after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall seek to enter into a cooperative
  agreement or contract with the Consortium under which the Consortium will--
  (1) be the academic administrative organization and fiscal agent for
  the Program;
  (2) award and administer such grants and subcontracts as are approved by
  the Committee under subsection (b);
  (3) develop and implement a scientific peer review process for evaluating
  grant and subcontractor applications prior to review by the Committee;
  (4) in cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce and the Committee,
  procure the services of a scientific project director;
  (5) develop and submit budgets, progress reports, work plans, and plans of
  operation for the Program to the Secretary of Commerce and the Committee; and
  (6) make available to the Committee such staff, information, and assistance
  as the Committee may reasonably require to carry out its activities.
  (d) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS- Within 3 months after the date of enactment of
  this Act and within each of the next three consecutive 3-month intervals,
  the Secretary of Commerce shall provide Congress with written assessments
  of Federal efforts to implement this section. In addition, the Secretary
  of Commerce shall submit an annual report to Congress on the Program,
  including a description of the research funded under the Program and the
  results of such research.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) Of the sums authorized under section
  4(a) of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Marine Fisheries
  Program Authorization Act (Public Law 98-210; 97 Stat. 1409), there are
  authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $5,200,000 for
  each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997 for carrying out the Program. Of
  the amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization, not more than
  5 percent of such appropriation  may be used for administrative purposes
  by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The remaining 95
  percent of such appropriation shall be used to meet the administrative
  and scientific objectives of the Program.
  (2) The Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference shall not administer
  appropriations authorized under this section, but may be reimbursed from
  such appropriations for its expenses in arranging for travel, meetings,
  workshops, or conferences necessary to carry out the Program.
  (f) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section, the term--
  (1) `Consortium' means the Louisiana Universities Marine Consortium; and
  (2) `shellfish' means any species of oyster, clam, or mussel that is
  harvested for human consumption.
SEC. 309. COOPERATIVE INSTITUTE OF FISHERIES OCEANOGRAPHY.
  The Secretary of Commerce shall acquire on a long-term basis from the
  Administrator of General Services space on Pivers Island in Beaufort, North
  Carolina, that is needed to implement the memorandum of understanding of
  March 2, 1989, between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
  Duke University, and the University of North Carolina establishing the
  Cooperative Institute of Fisheries Oceanography. This section shall not
  apply if the annual cost of leasing the required space exceeds $2,000,000.
SEC. 310. UNITED STATES GULF OF MEXICO AND SOUTH ATLANTIC SHRIMP FISHERY STUDY.
  (a) STUDY- (1) The Secretary of Commerce shall conduct a comprehensive
  economic study to provide baseline information to guide policy decisions on
  the future of the United States Gulf of Mexico and South Atlantic shrimp
  fishery. Funds shall only be expended under the terms of paragraph (2)
  of this section.
  (2) The study shall--
  (A) gather information as to the extent to which governmental and economic
  factors have affected or may affect the United States Gulf of Mexico and
  South Atlantic shrimp fishery;
  (B) attempt to expand available historical data through survey contacts
  and cooperation with the industry; and
  (C) incorporate the results of the studies on the United States Gulf of
  Mexico and South Atlantic shrimp fishery that are underway or completed
  on the date this section is effective.
  (b) REPORT- The Secretary of Commerce shall submit a report to Congress
  detailing the results of this study no later than October 1, 1993.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION- There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out
  the provisions of this section $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1993. None
  of the funds authorized under section 304(g) of the Magnuson Fishery
  Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1854(g)) may be used to carry
  out the provisions of this section.
SEC. 311. REPORT ON SATELLITE CAPABILITIES FOR FISHERIES ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than six months after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the heads
  of other Federal agencies, shall prepare and submit to the Committee
  on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives and
  the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a
  report describing how current and planned satellite capabilities of the
  Federal Government can aid in the enforcement of Federal fisheries laws
  and international fisheries conservation programs.
  (b) REPORT CONTENTS- The report under subsection (a) shall include
  consideration of--
  (1) active, transponder-based systems and passive, vessel signature-based
  technologies capable of localizing or identifying individual vessels
  without the use of vessel-carried transmitters;
  (2) the resolution, coverage periods, and all-weather effectiveness of each
  technology and the real-time data delivery capacity of the various systems;
  (3) a description of the technological requirements (including data
  processing and transfer procedures) and institutional requirements necessary
  to transfer satellite data to end users for management and enforcement
  purposes; and
  (4) the status of foreign civil satellites and the feasibility of their
  application to international vessel location and monitoring.
SEC. 312. DEMONSTRATION PROJECT FOR SEAFOOD HANDLING TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
  (a) GRANTS- The Secretary of Commerce may make annual grants to the City
  of San Francisco and the Port of San Francisco for each of the fiscal
  years 1992 and 1993 for a joint project at the San Francisco Wharf to
  demonstrate safe seafood handling and to conduct seafood education programs.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For grants under this section, there
  are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce--
  (1) $250,000 for fiscal year 1992; and
  (2) $350,000 for fiscal year 1993.
Such funds shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 313. BOWHEAD WHALE STUDY.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Department of Commerce
  and the Department of the Interior are authorized to pay as appropriate,
  $48,464, plus interest since June 6, 1988, to reimburse any unpaid costs
  incurred in the research and preparation of a paper entitled `Quantification
  of Subsistence and Cultural Need for Bowhead Whales by Alaska Eskimos',
  which was presented by the United States to the 40th Annual Meeting of
  the International Whaling Commission.
SEC. 314. FISHERIES RESEARCH CENTER.
  The Secretary of Commerce, through the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans
  and Atmosphere, is authorized to construct a building, on approximately 15
  acres of land to be leased from the University of Southwest Louisiana for
  a 99-year term. This section shall not apply if the annual cost of leasing
  the required land exceeds one dollar. This authorization is subject to the
  availability of appropriations provided in advance for the purpose stated
  in this section.
SEC. 315. PASCAGOULA LABORATORY WAREHOUSE FACILITIES.
  Due to the logistical crisis at the National Marine Fisheries Service
  Laboratory at Pascagoula, Mississippi, the Administrator of the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should give immediate consideration
  to upgrading dock and warehouse support facilities at such Laboratory in
  fiscal year 1993.
TITLE IV--ADMINISTRATION AND OTHER ACCOUNTS
SEC. 401. PROGRAM SUPPORT.
  (a) EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES- There are authorized
  to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to carry out executive direction
  and administrative activities (including management, administrative
  support, provision of retired pay of National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration commissioned officers, and policy development) under the
  Act entitled `An Act to clarify the status and benefits of commissioned
  officers of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and for
  other purposes', approved December 31, 1970 (33 U.S.C. 857-1 et seq.),
  and any other law involving those activities, $68,460,000 for fiscal year
  1992 and $75,750,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (b) MARINE SERVICES- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out marine services activities (including ship
  operations, maintenance, and support) under the Act of 1947 and any other
  law involving those activities, $63,407,000 for fiscal year 1992 and
  $68,518,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (2) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce,
  to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to acquire
  a multibeam sonar mapper, $1,500,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  (3) In addition to sums authorized in paragraphs (1) and (2), there are
  authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $1,040,000 for
  fiscal year 1993 for the reactivation and operation of the research vessle
  ALBATROSS IV.
  (4)(A) Unless necessary for safety reasons, the Secretary of Commerce
  shall not deactivate the ALBATROSS IV (if active), until an equivalent
  replacement vessel is operational.
  (B) The Secretary of Commerce shall notify the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant
  Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives 60 days prior to the
  proposed deactivation of any other research vessel of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration, if an equivalent replacement vessel will
  not become operational at the time of deactivation.
  (5) The Secretary of Commerce shall consult with the Oceanographer of
  the Navy regarding appropriate cost effective and practical measures to
  allow vessels of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to
  be interoperable with vessels of the Department of the Navy, including
  with respect to operation, maintenance, and repair of those vessels.
  (c) AIRCRAFT SERVICES- There are authorized to be appropriated to the
  Secretary of Commerce, to enable the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration to carry out aircraft services activities (including
  aircraft operations, maintenance, and support) under the Act of 1890 and
  any other law involving those activities, $8,865,000 for fiscal year 1992
  and $10,336,000 for fiscal year 1993.
SEC. 402. CONSTRUCTION.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce, for
  acquisition, construction, maintenance, and operation of facilities of the
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration under any law involving
  those activities, $34,917,000 for fiscal year 1992 and $94,500,000 for
  fiscal year 1993.
SEC. 403. NOTICE OF REPROGRAMMING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Commerce shall provide notice to the
  Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Committee on
  Appropriations of the Senate and to the Committee on Merchant Marine and
  Fisheries, Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and Committee on
  Appropriations of the House of Representatives, not less than 15 days before
  reprogramming funds available for a program, project, or activity of the
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in an amount greater than
  the lesser of $250,000 or 5 percent of the total funding of such program,
  project, or activity if the reprogramming--
  (1) augments an existing program, project, or activity;
  (2) reduces by 5 percent or more (A) the funding for an existing program,
  project, or activity or (B) the numbers of personnel therefor as approved
  by Congress; or
  (3) results from any general savings from a reduction in personnel which
  would result in a change in an existing program, project, or activity.
  (b) NOTICE OF REORGANIZATION- The Secretary of Commerce shall provide
  notice to the Committees on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, Science, Space,
  and Technology, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and the
  Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Appropriations of the
  Senate not later than 15 days before any major reorganization of any program,
  project, or activity of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
SEC. 404. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE.
  (a) PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS- Within 12 months after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall develop and, after notice
  and opportunity for public comment, promulgate regulations or guidelines
  to ensure that a completed application for a grant, contract, or other
  financial assistance under a nondiscretionary assistance program shall be
  processed and approved or disapproved within 75 days after submission of
  the application to the responsible program office of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration.
  (b) NOTIFICATION OF APPLICANT- Not later than 14 days after the date on which
  the Secretary of Commerce receives an application for a contract, grant,
  or other financial assistance provided under a nondiscretionary assistance
  program administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
  the Secretary shall indicate in writing to the applicant whether or not the
  application is complete and, if not complete, shall specify the additional
  material that the applicant must provide to complete the application.
  (c) EXEMPTION- In the case of a program for which the recipient of a grant,
  contract, or other financial assistance is specified by statute to be, or
  has customarily been, a State or an interstate fishery commission, such
  financial assistance may be provided by the Secretary to that recipient
  on a sole-source basis, notwithstanding any other provision of law.
  (d) DEFINITION- In this section, the term `nondiscretionary assistance
  program' means any program for providing financial assistance--
  (1) under which the amount of funding for, and the intended recipient of,
  the financial assistance is specified by Congress; or
  (2) the recipients of which have customarily been a State or an interstate
  fishery commission.
SEC. 405. PRICE FREEZE ON CHARTS AND OTHER PRODUCTS OF NOAA.
  Notwithstanding section 1307 of title 44, United States Code, the price
  of nautical charts or other nautical products produced or published by the
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and sold after the date of
  the enactment of this Act shall not exceed the price of that type of chart
  or product on the date of enactment of this Act adjusted for inflation. This
  section shall not apply after September 30, 1994.
SEC. 406. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
  The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary of Commerce
  for Oceans and Atmosphere, may enter into cooperative agreements and other
  financial agreements with any nonprofit organization to--
  (1) aid and promote scientific and educational activities to foster public
  understanding of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration or
  its programs; and
  (2) solicit private donations for the support of such activities.
SEC. 407. RECRUITMENT OF MINORITIES AND WOMEN FOR NOAA SCIENCE EDUCATION
ACTIVITIES.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
  (1) In this decade, more than two-thirds of the new entrants to the United
  States labor force will be minorities and women--groups which for the most
  part have been historically underrepresented in the sciences.
  (2) The National Science Foundation estimates that by the year 2000,
  the United States will face a shortfall of more than 400,000 science and
  engineering personnel.
  (3) Given the demographics of the United States workforce, the problem
  of underrepresented minorities and women in the sciences and engineering
  could seriously compromise the industrial and technological capability
  of the United States, as well as its ability to compete in international
  marketplaces.
  (4) The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has made important
  efforts to promote education programs in the sciences for students,
  teachers, and other citizens.
  (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should continue to expand its
  educational programs in the sciences, and in this effort, that the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration should develop and promote programs
  that reach out to and recruit minorities and women for education in the
  sciences.
TITLE V--NATIONAL MARINE MONITORING PROGRAM
SEC. 501. AMENDMENT.
  The Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 is amended
  by adding at the end the following new title:
`TITLE V--NATIONAL COASTAL MONITORING ACT
`SEC. 501. PURPOSES.
  `The purposes of this title are to--
  `(1) establish a comprehensive national program for consistent monitoring
  of the Nation's coastal ecosystems;
  `(2) establish long-term water quality assessment and monitoring programs
  for high priority coastal waters that will enhance the ability of Federal,
  State, and local authorities to develop and implement effective remedial
  programs for those waters;
  `(3) establish a system for reviewing and evaluating the scientific,
  analytical, and technological means that are available for monitoring the
  environmental quality of coastal ecosystems;
  `(4) establish methods for identifying uniform indicators of coastal
  ecosystem quality;
  `(5) provide for periodic, comprehensive reports to Congress concerning
  the quality of the Nation's coastal ecosystems;
  `(6) establish a coastal environment information program to distribute
  coastal monitoring information;
  `(7) provide state programs authorized under the Coastal Zone Management
  Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) with information necessary to design
  land use plans and coastal zone regulations that will contribute to the
  protection of coastal ecosystems; and
  `(8) provide certain water pollution control programs authorized under the
  Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) with information
  necessary to design and implement effective coastal water pollution controls.
`SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.
  `For the purposes of this title, the term--
  `(1) `Administrator' means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
  Agency;
  `(2) `coastal ecosystem' means a system of interacting biological, chemical,
  and physical components throughout the water column, water surface, and
  benthic environment of coastal waters;
  `(3) `coastal water quality' means the physical, chemical and biological
  parameters that relate to the health and integrity of coastal ecosystems;
  `(4) `coastal water quality monitoring' means a continuing program of
  measurement, analysis, and synthesis to identify and quantify coastal
  water quality conditions and trends to provide a technical basis for
  decisionmaking;
  `(5) `coastal waters' means waters of the Great Lakes, including their
  connecting waters and those portions of rivers, streams, and other bodies
  of water having unimpaired connection with the open sea up to the head
  of tidal influence, including wetlands, intertidal areas, bays, harbors,
  and lagoons, including waters of the territorial sea of the United States
  and the contiguous zone'; and
  `(6) `Under Secretary' means Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and
  Atmosphere.
`SEC. 503. COMPREHENSIVE COASTAL WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAM.
  `(a) AUTHORITY; JOINT IMPLEMENTATION- (1) The Administrator and the Under
  Secretary, in conjunction with other Federal, State, and local authorities,
  shall jointly develop and implement a program for the long-term collection,
  assimilation, and analysis of scientific data designed to measure the
  environmental quality of the Nation's coastal ecosystems pursuant to this
  section. Monitoring conducted pursuant to this section shall be coordinated
  with relevant monitoring programs conducted by the Administrator, Under
  Secretary, and other Federal, State, and local authorities.
  `(2) Primary leadership for the monitoring program activities conducted by
  the Environmental Protection Agency pursuant to this section shall be located
  at the Environmental Research Laboratory in Narragansett, Rhode Island.
  `(b) PROGRAM ELEMENTS- The Comprehensive Coastal Water Quality Monitoring
  Program shall include, but not be limited to--
  `(1) identification and analysis of the status of environmental quality in
  the Nation's coastal ecosystems, including but not limited to, assessment
  of--
  `(A) ambient water quality, including contaminant levels in relation to
  criteria and standards issued pursuant to title III or the Federal Water
  Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.);
  `(B) benthic environmental quality, including analysis of contaminant levels
  in sediments in relation to criteria and standards issued pursuant to title
  III of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1311 et seq.); and
  `(C) health and quality of living resources.
  `(2) identification of sources of environmental degradation affecting the
  Nation's coastal ecosystems;
  `(3) assessment of the impact of governmental programs and management
  strategies and measures designed to abate or prevent the environmental
  degradation of the Nation's coastal ecosystems;
  `(4) assessment of the accumulation of floatables along coastal shorelines;
  `(5) analysis of expected short-term and long-term trends in the
  environmental quality of the Nation's coastal ecosystems; and
  `(6) the development and implementation of intensive coastal water quality
  monitoring programs in accordance with subsection (d).
  (c) Monitoring Guidelines and Protocols-
  `(1) GUIDELINES- Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of
  this title, the Administrator and the Under Secretary shall jointly issue
  coastal water quality monitoring guidelines to assist in the development
  and implementation of coastal water quality monitoring programs. The
  guidelines shall--
  `(A) provide an appropriate degree of uniformity among the coastal water
  quality monitoring methods and data while preserving the flexibility of
  monitoring programs to address specific needs;
  `(B) establish scientifically valid monitoring methods that will--
  `(i) provide simplified methods to survey and assess the water quality
  and ecological health of coastal waters;
  `(ii) identify and quantify through more intensive efforts the severity
  of existing or anticipated problems in selected coastal waters;
  `(iii) identify and quantify sources of pollution that cause or contribute
  to those problems, including point and nonpoint sources; and
  `(iv) evaluate over time the effectiveness of efforts to reduce or eliminate
  pollution from those sources;
  `(C) provide for data compatibility to enable data to be efficiently stored
  and shared by various users; and
  `(D) identify appropriate physical, chemical, and biological indicators
  of the health and quality of coastal ecosystems.
  `(2) TECHNICAL PROTOCOLS- Guidelines issued under paragraph (1) shall
  include protocols for--
  `(A) designing statistically valid coastal water quality monitoring
  networks and monitoring surveys, including assessment of the accumulation
  of floatables.
  `(B) sampling and analysis, including appropriate physical and chemical
  parameters, living resource parameters, and sediment analysis techniques; and
  `(C) quality control, quality assessment, and data consistency and
  management.
  `(3) PERIODIC REVIEW- The Administrator and the Under Secretary shall
  periodically review the guidelines and protocols issued under this subsection
  to evaluate their effectiveness, the degree to which they continue to answer
  program objectives and provide an appropriate degree of uniformity while
  taking local conditions into account, and any need to modify or supplement
  them with new guidelines and protocols, as needed.
  `(4) DISCHARGE PERMIT DATA- The Administrator or a State permitting authority
  shall ensure that compliance monitoring conducted pursuant to section
  402(a)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1342(a)(2))
  for permits for discharges to coastal waters is consistent with the
  guidelines issued under this subsection. Any modifications of discharge
  permits necessary to implement this subsection shall be deemed to be
  minor modifications of such permit. Nothing in this subsection requires
  dischargers to conduct monitoring other than compliance monitoring pursuant
  to permits under section 402(a)(2) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
  Act (33 U.S.C. 1342(a)(2)).
  `(d) INTENSIVE COASTAL WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Comprehensive Coastal Water Quality Monitoring Program
  established pursuant to this section shall include intensive coastal water
  quality monitoring programs developed under this subsection.
  `(2) DESIGNATION OF INTENSIVE MONITORING AREAS- Not later than 24 months
  after the date of enactment of this title and periodically thereafter,
  the Administrator and the Under Secretary shall, based on recommendations
  by the National Research Council, jointly designate coastal areas to be
  intensively monitored.
  `(3) IDENTIFICATION OF SUITABLE COASTAL AREAS- (A) The Administrator and
  the Under Secretary shall contract with the National Research Council to
  conduct a study to identify coastal areas suitable for the establishment of
  intensive coastal monitoring programs. In identifying these coastal areas,
  the National Research Council shall consider areas that--
  `(i) are representatives of coastal ecosystems throughout the United States;
  `(ii) will provide information to assess the status and trends of coastal
  water quality nation-wide; and
  `(iii) would benefit from intensive water quality monitoring because of
  local management needs.
  `(B) In making recommendations under this paragraph, the National Research
  Council shall consult with Regional Research Boards established pursuant
  to title IV of this Act.
  `(C) The National Research Council shall, within 18 months of the date
  of enactment of this title, submit a report to the Administrator and the
  Under Secretary listing areas suitable for intensive monitoring.
  `(D) The Administrator and the Under Secretary, in conjunction with
  other Federal, State, and local authorities, shall develop and implement
  multi-year programs of intensive monitoring for Massachusetts and Cape Cod
  Bays, the Gulf of Maine, the Chesapeake Bay, the Hudson-Raritan Estuary,
  and each area jointly designated by the Administrator and the Under
  Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2).
  `(4) INTENSIVE COASTAL WATER QUALITY MONITORING PROGRAMS- Each intensive
  coastal water quality monitoring program developed pursuant to this
  subsection shall--
  `(A) identify water quality conditions and problems and provide information
  to assist in improving coastal water quality;
  `(B) clearly state the goals and objectives of the monitoring program
  and their relationship to the water quality objectives for coastal waters
  covered by the program;
  `(C) identify the water quality and biological parameters of the monitoring
  program and their relationship to these goals and objectives;
  `(D) describe the types of monitoring networks, surveys and other activities
  to be used to achieve these goals and objectives, using where appropriate
  the guidelines issued under subsection (c);
  `(E) survey existing Federal, State, and local coastal monitoring activities
  and private compliance monitoring activities in or on the coastal waters
  covered by the program, describe the relationship of the program to those
  other monitoring activities, and integrate them, as appropriate, into the
  intensive monitoring program;
  `(F) describe the data management and quality control components of the
  program;
  `(G) specify the implementation requirements for the program, including--
  `(i) the lead Federal, State, or regional authority that will administer
  the program;
  `(ii) the public and private parties that will implement the program;
  `(iii) a detailed schedule for program implementation;
  `(iv) all Federal and State responsibilities for implementing the program;
  and
  `(v) the changes in Federal, State, and local monitoring programs necessary
  to implement the program;
  `(H) estimate the costs to Federal and State governments, and other
  participants, of implementing the monitoring program; and
  `(I) describe the methods to assess periodically the success of the
  monitoring program in meeting its goals and objectives, and the manner in
  which the program may be modified from time-to-time.
  `(5) CRITERIA FOR MONITORING MASSACHUSETTS AND CAPE COD BAYS- In addition
  to the criteria listed in paragraph (4), the intensive monitoring program
  for Massachusetts and Cape Cod Bays shall establish baseline data on
  environmental phenomena (such as quantity of bacteria and quality of
  indigenous species, and swimmability) and determine the ecological impacts
  resulting from major point source discharges.
  `(6) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- Prior to implementing any intensive coastal
  water quality monitoring program under this subsection, the Administrator
  and the Under Secretary shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding to
  implement the intensive coastal water quality monitoring programs and may
  extend the memorandum of Understanding to include other appropriate Federal
  agencies. The Memorandum of Understanding shall identify the monitoring
  and reporting responsibilities of each agency and shall encourage the
  coordination of monitoring activities.
  `(7) IMPLEMENTATION- (A) The Administrator, the Under Secretary, and the
  Governor of each State having waters subject to an intensive coastal water
  quality monitoring program developed pursuant to this subsection shall
  ensure compliance with that program.
  `(B) The Administrator and the Under Secretary are authorized to enter
  into cooperative agreements to provide financial assistance to non-Federal
  agencies and institutions to support implementation of intensive monitoring
  programs under this subsection. Federal financial assistance may only be
  provided on the condition that not less than fifty percent of the costs
  of the monitoring to be conducted by a non-Federal agency or institution
  is provided from non-Federal funds.
  `(e) Comprehensive Implementation Strategy-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Within 1 year after the date of enactment of this title,
  the Administrator and the Under Secretary shall jointly submit to Congress a
  Comprehensive Implementation Strategy identifying the current and planned
  activities to implement the Comprehensive Coastal Monitoring Program
  pursuant to this section.
  `(2) CONSULTATION- The Administrator and the Under Secretary shall consult
  with the National Academy of Sciences, the Director of the United States
  Fish and Wildlife Service, the Director of the Minerals Management Service,
  the Commandant of the Coast Guard, the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary
  of Agriculture, the heads of any other relevant Federal or regional agencies,
  and the Governors of coastal States in developing the Strategy.
  `(3) PUBLIC COMMENT- Not less than 3 months before submitting the Strategy
  to Congress, the Administrator and the Under Secretary shall jointly publish
  a draft version of the Strategy in the Federal Register and shall solicit
  public comments regarding the Strategy.
  `(4) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING- Within 1 year after submission of the
  Strategy under paragraph (1), the Administrator and the Under Secretary
  shall enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with appropriate Federal
  agencies necessary to effect the coordination of Federal coastal monitoring
  programs. The Memorandum of Understanding shall identify the monitoring
  and reporting responsibilities of each agency and shall encourage the
  coordination of monitoring activities where possible.
SEC. 504. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
  `On September 30 of each other year beginning in 1993, the Administrator
  and the Under Secretary shall jointly submit to the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Environment and Public
  Works of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
  and the Committee on Public Works and Transportation of the House of
  Representatives a report describing the condition of the Nation's coastal
  ecosystems, including the following:
  `(1) an assessment of the status and health of the Nation's coastal
  ecosystems;
  `(2) an evaluation of environmental trends in coastal ecosystems;
  `(3) identification of sources of enironmental degradation affecting
  coastal ecosystems;
  `(4) an assessment of the extent to which floatables degrade coastal
  ecosystems, including trends in the accumulation of floatables and the
  threat posed by floatables to aquatic life;
  `(5) an assessment of the impact of government programs designed to abate
  the degradation of coastal ecosystems:
  `(6) an evaluation of the adequacy of monitoring programs and identification
  of any additional program elements which may be needed; and
  `(7) a summary of monitoring results in areas monitored under subsection
  503(d).
`SEC. 505. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `(a) NOAA AUTHORIZATION- For development and implementation of programs
  under this title, including financial assistance to non-Federal agencies
  and institutions to support implementation of intensive monitoring programs
  under section 503(d), there is authorized to be appropriated to the Under
  Secretary amounts not to exceed $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $8,000,000
  for fiscal year 1994, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and $12,000,000
  for fiscal year 1996.
  `(b) EPA AUTHORIZATION- For development and implementation of programs
  under this title, including financial assistance to non-Federal agencies
  and institutions to support implementation of intensive monitoring
  programs under section 503(d), there is authorized to be appropriated to
  the Administrator amounts not to exceed $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,
  $8,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1995,
  and $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.'.
TITLE VI--NOAA FLEET MODERNIZATION
SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `NOAA Fleet Modernization Act'.
SEC. 602. DEFINITIONS.
  In this title, the term--
  (1) `NOAA' means the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration within
  the Department of Commerce.
  (2) `NOAA fleet' means the fleet of research vessels owned or operated
  by NOAA.
  (3) `Plan' means the NOAA Fleet Replacement and Modernization Plan described
  in section 604.
  (4) `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce.
  (5) `UNOLS' means University-National Oceanographic Laboratory System.
SEC. 603. FLEET REPLACEMENT AND MODERNIZATION PROGRAM.
  The Secretary is authorized to implement, subject to the requirements of
  this Act, a 15-year program to replace and modernize the NOAA fleet.
SEC. 604. FLEET REPLACEMENT AND MODERNIZATION PLAN.
  (a) IN GENERAL- To carry out the program authorized in section 603,
  the Secretary shall develop and submit to Congress a replacement and
  modernization Plan for the NOAA fleet covering the years authorized under
  section 610.
  (b) TIMING- The Plan required in subsection (a) shall be submitted to
  Congress within 30 days of the date of enactment of this Act, and updated
  on an annual basis.
  (c) PLAN ELEMENTS- The Plan required in subsection (a) shall include
  the following--
  (1) the number of vessels proposed to be modernized or replaced, the schedule
  for their modernization or replacement, and anticipated funding requirements;
  (2) the number of vessels proposed to be constructed, leased, or chartered;
  (3) the number of vessels, or days at sea, that can be obtained by using
  the vessels of the UNOLS;
  (4) the number of vessels that will be made available to NOAA by the
  Secretary of the Navy, or any other federal official, and the terms and
  conditions for their availability;
  (5) the proposed acquisition of modern scientific instrumentation for the
  NOAA fleet, including acoustic systems, data transmission positioning and
  communication systems, physical, chemical, and meteorological oceanographic
  systems, and data acquisition and processing systems; and
  (6) the appropriate role of the NOAA Corps in operating and maintaining
  the NOAA fleet.
  (d) CONTRACTING LIMITATION- The Secretary may not enter into any contract
  for the construction, lease, or service life extension of a vessel of
  the NOAA fleet before the date of the submission to Congress of the Plan
  required in subsection (a).
SEC. 605. DESIGN OF NOAA VESSELS.
  (a) DESIGN REQUIREMENT- Except for the vessel designs identified under
  subsection (b), the Secretary, working through the Office of the NOAA
  Corps Operations and the Systems Procurement Office, shall--
  (1) prepare requirements for each class of vessel to be constructed or
  converted under the Plan; and
  (2) contract competitively from nongovernmental entities with expertise in
  shipbuilding for vessel design and construction based on the requirements
  for each class of vessel to be acquired.
  (b) EXCEPTION- The Secretary shall--
  (1) report to Congress identifying any existing vessel design or design
  proposal that meets the requirements of the Plan within 30 days after the
  date of enactment of this Act and shall promptly advise the Congress of
  any modification of these designs; and
  (2) submit to Congress as part of the annual update of the Plan required
  in section 604, any subsequent existing vessel design or design proposals
  that meet the requirements of the Plan.
SEC. 606. CONTRACT AUTHORITY.
  (a) MULTIYEAR CONTRACTS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), and notwithstanding
  section 1341 of title 31, United States Code and section 3732 of the
  Revised Statutes of the United States (41 U.S.C. 11), the Secretary may
  acquire vessels for the NOAA fleet by purchase, lease, lease-purchase,
  or otherwise, under one or more multiyear contracts.
  (2) REQUIRED FINDINGS- The Secretary may not enter into a contract
  pursuant to this subsection unless the Secretary finds with respect to
  that contract that--
  (A) there is a reasonable expectation that throughout the contemplated
  contract period the Secretary will request from Congress funding for the
  contract at the level required to avoid contract termination; and
  (B) the use of the contract will promote the best interests of the United
  States by encouraging competition and promoting economic efficiency in
  the operation of the NOAA fleet.
  (3) REQUIRED CONTRACT PROVISIONS- The Secretary may not enter into a
  contract pursuant to this subsection unless the contract includes--
  (A) a provision under which the  obligation of the United States to
  make payments under the contract for any fiscal year is subject to the
  availability of appropriations provided in advance for those payments;
  (B) a provision that specifies the term of effectiveness of the contract; and
  (C) appropriate provisions under which, in case of any termination of the
  contract before the end of the term specified pursuant to subparagraph
  (B), the United States shall only be liable for the lesser of--
  (i) an amount specified in the contract for such a termination; or
  (ii) amounts that--
  (I) were appropriated before the date of the termination for the performance
  of the contract or for procurement of the type of acquisition covered by
  the contract; and
  (II) are unobligated on the date of the termination.
  (b) SERVICE CONTRACTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
  Secretary may enter into multiyear contracts for oceanographic research,
  fisheries research, and mapping and charting services to assist the
  Secretary in fulfilling NOAA missions. The Secretary may only enter into
  these contracts if--
  (1) the Secretary finds that it is in the public interest to do so;
  (2) the contract is for not more than 7 years; and
  (3)(A) the cost of the contract is less than the cost (including the cost
  of operation, maintenance, and personnel) to the NOAA of obtaining those
  services on NOAA vessels; or
  (B) NOAA vessels are not available or cannot provide those services.
  (c) BONDING AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding any other law, the Secretary may not
  require a contractor for the construction, alteration, repair or maintenance
  of a NOAA vessel to provide a bid bond, payment bond, performance bond,
  completion bond, or other surety instrument in an amount greater than 20
  percent of the value of the base contract quantity (excluding options)
  unless the Secretary determines that requiring an instrument in that amount
  will not prevent a responsible bidder or offeror from competing for the
  award of the contract.
SEC. 607. RESTRICTION WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN SHIPYARD SUBSIDIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Commerce may not award a contract for
  the construction, repair (except emergency repairs), or alteration of any
  vessel of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in a shipyard,
  if that vessel benefits or would benefit from significant subsidies for
  the construction, repair, or alteration of vessels in that shipyard.
  (b) DEFINITION- In this section, the term `significant subsidy' includes,
  but is not limited to, any of the following:
  (1) Officially supported export credits.
  (2) Direct official operating support to the commercial shipbuilding
  and repair industry, or to a related entity that favors the operation of
  shipbuilding and repair, including but not limited to--
  (A) grants;
  (B) loans and loan guarantees other than those available on the commercial
  market;
  (C) forgiveness of debt;
  (D) equity infusions on terms inconsistent with commercially reasonable
  investment practices; and
  (E) preferential provision of goods and services.
  (3) Direct official support for investment in the commercial shipbuilding
  and repair industry, or to a related entity that favors the operation of
  shipbuilding and repair, including but not limited to the kinds of support
  listed in paragraph (2)(A) through (E), and any restructuring support,
  except public support for social purposes directly and effectively linked
  to shipyard closures.
  (4) Assistance in the form of grants, preferential loans, preferential
  tax treatment, or otherwise, that benefits or is directly related to
  shipbuilding and repair for purposes of research and development that is
  not equally open to domestic and foreign enterprises.
  (5) Tax policies and practices that favor the shipbuilding and repair
  industry, directly or indirectly, such as tax credits, deductions,
  exemptions, and preferences, including accelerated depreciation, if such
  benefits are not generally available to persons or firms not engaged in
  shipbuilding or repair.
  (6) Any official regulation or practice that authorizes or encourages persons
  or firms engaged in shipbuilding or repair to enter into anticompetitive
  arrangements.
  (7) Any indirect support directly related, in law or in fact, to shipbuilding
  and repair at national yards, including any public assistance favoring
  shipowners with an indirect effect on shipbuilding or repair activities, and
  any assistance provided to suppliers of significant inputs to shipbuilding,
  which results in benefits to domestic shipbuilders.
  (8) Any export subsidy identified in the Illustrative List of Export
  Subsidies in the Annex to the Agreement on Interpretation and Application
  of Articles VI, XVI, and XXIII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and
  Trade or any other export subsidy that may be prohibited as a result of
  the Uruguay Round of trade negotiations.
SEC. 608. USE OF VESSELS.
  (a) VESSEL AGREEMENTS- In implementing the NOAA fleet replacement and
  modernization program, the Secretary shall use excess capacity of UNOLS
  vessels where appropriate and may enter into memoranda of agreement with
  the operators of these vessels to carry out this requirement.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within one year after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a
  report to Congress, in consultation with the Secretary, comparing the
  cost-efficiency, accounting, and operating practices of the vessels of
  NOAA, UNOLS, other Federal agencies, and the United States private sector
  in meeting the missions of NOAA.
SEC. 609. INTEROPERABILITY.
  The Secretary shall consult with the Oceanographer of the Navy regarding
  appropriate measures that should be taken, on a reimbursable basis, to
  ensure that NOAA vessels are interoperable with vessels of the Department
  of the Navy, including with respect to operation, maintenance, and repair
  of those vessels.
SEC. 610. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary
  for carrying out this title--
  (1) $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1993;
  (2) $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  (3) such sums as are necessary for each of the fiscal years 1995, 1996,
  and 1997.
  (b) LIMITATION ON FLEET MODERNIZATION ACTIVITIES- All National Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Administration fleet modernization shipbuilding, and conversion
  shall be conducted in accordance with this title.
TITLE VII--WEATHER SERVICE MODERNIZATION
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Weather Service Modernization Act'.
SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this title, the term--
  (1) `automate' means to replace employees with automated weather service
  equipment;
  (2) `change operations at a field office' means transfer service
  responsibility, commission weather observation systems, decommission a
  National Weather Service radar, change staffing levels significantly, or move
  a field office to a new location inside the local commuting and service area;
  (3) `Committee' means the Modernization Transition Committee established
  by section 707;
  (4) `degradation of service' means any decrease in or failure to maintain
  the quality and type of weather services provided by the National Weather
  Service to the public in a service area, including but not limited to a
  reduction in existing weather radar coverage at an elevation of 10,000 feet;
  (5) `field office' means any National Weather Service Office or National
  Weather Service Forecast Office;
  (6) `Plan' means the National Implementation Plan required under section 703;
  (7) `relocate' means to transfer from one location to another location
  that is outside the local commuting or service area;
  (8) `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce;
  (9) `service area' means the geographical area for which a field office
  provides services or conducts observations, including but not limited to
  local forecasts, severe weather warnings, aviation support, radar coverage,
  and ground weather observations; and
  (10) `Strategic Plan' means the 10-year strategic plan for the comprehensive
  modernization of the National Weather Service, required under section 407
  of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act,
  Fiscal Year 1989 (15 U.S.C. 313 note).
SEC. 703. NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
  (a) NATIONAL IMPLEMENTATION PLAN- As part of the budget justification
  documents submitted to Congress in support of the annual budget request
  for the Department of Commerce, the Secretary shall include a National
  Implementation Plan for modernization of the National Weather Service for
  each fiscal year following fiscal year 1993 until such modernization is
  complete. The Plan shall set forth the actions, during the 2-year period
  beginning with the fiscal year for which the budget request is made, that
  will be necessary to accomplish the objectives described in the Strategic
  Plan, and shall include--
  (1) detailed requirements for new technologies, facilities, staffing levels
  and positions, and funding, in accordance with the overall schedule for
  modernization;
  (2) notification of any proposed action to change operations at a field
  office and the intended date of such operational change;
  (3) identification of any field office that the Secretary intends to
  certify under section 706, including the intended date of such certification;
  (4) special measures to test, evaluate, and demonstrate key elements
  of the modernized National Weather Service operations prior to national
  implementation, including a multistation operational demonstration which
  tests the performance of the modernization in an integrated manner for a
  sustained period;
  (5) detailed plans and funding requirements for meteorological research
  to be accomplishment under this title to assure that new techniques
  in forecasting will be developed to utilize the new technologies being
  implemented in the modernization; and
  (6) training and education programs to ensure that employees gain the
  necessary expertise to utilize the new technologies and to minimize employee
  displacement as a consequence of modernization.
  (b) TRANSMITTAL TO COMMITTEE- The Secretary shall transmit a copy of each
  annual Plan to the Committee.
  (c) CONSULTATION- In developing the Plan, the Secretary shall consult,
  as appropriate, with the Committee and public entities responsible for
  providing or utilizing weather services.
SEC. 704. MODERNIZATION CRITERIA.
  (a) NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL REVIEW- The Secretary shall contract with
  the National Research Council for a review of the scientific and technical
  modernization criteria by which the Secretary proposes to certify action
  to close, consolidate, automate, or relocate a field office under section
  706. In conducting such review, the National Research Council shall prepare
  and submit to the Secretary, no later than 9 months after the date of
  enactment of this Act, a report which--
  (1) assesses requirements and procedures for commissioning new weather
  observation systems, decommissioning an outdated National Weather Service
  radar, and evaluating staffing needs for field offices in an affected
  service area;
  (2) assesses the statistical and analytical measures that should be made
  for a service area to form an adequate basis for determining that there
  will be no degradation of service; and
  (3) includes such other recommendations as the National Research Council
  determines are appropriate to ensure public safety.
  (b) CRITERIA- No later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the National Research Council
  and the Committee and after notice and opportunity for public comment,
  shall publish in the Federal Register modernization criteria (including
  all requirements and procedures), based on the report required under this
  section, for--
  (1) commissioning new weather observation systems, decommissioning an
  outdated National Weather Service radar, and evaluating staffing needs
  for field offices in an affected service area; and
  (2) certifying action to close, consolidate, automate, or relocate a field
  office under section 706.
SEC. 705. CHANGES IN FIELD OFFICE OPERATIONS.
  (a) NOTIFICATION- The Secretary shall not change operations at a field office
  pursuant to implementation of the Strategic Plan unless the Secretary has
  provided the notification required by section 703.
  (b) WEATHER RADAR DECOMMISSIONING- The Secretary shall not remove or
  permanently decommission any National Weather Service radar until the
  Secretary has prepared radar commissioning and decommissioning reports
  documenting that such action would be consistent with the modernization
  criteria established under section 704(b)(1). The commissioning report shall
  document that the radar system performs reliably, satisfactory maintenance
  support is in place, sufficient staff with adequate training are present to
  operate the system, technical coordination with weather service users has
  been completed, and the radar being commissioned satisfactorily supports
  field office operations. The decommissioning report shall document that
  the replacement radar has been commissioned, technical coordination with
  service users has been completed, and the radar being decommissioned is
  no longer needed to support field office operations.
  (c) SURFACE OBSERVING SYSTEM COMMISSIONING- The Secretary may not commission
  an automated surface observing system located at an airport unless it is
  determined, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, that
  the weather services provided after commissioning will continue to be in
  full compliance with applicable flight aviation rules promulgated by the
  Federal Aviation Administration.
SEC. 706. RESTRUCTURING FIELD OFFICES.
  SEC. 706. (a) PROHIBITION- The Secretary shall not close, before January 1,
  1996, any field office pursuant to implementation of the Strategic Plan.
  (b) CERTIFICATION- The Secretary shall not close, consolidate, automate,
  or relocate any field office, unless the Secretary has certified that such
  action will not result in any degradation of service. Such certification
  shall include--
  (1) a description of local weather characteristics and weather-related
  concerns which affect the weather services provided within the service area;
  (2) a detailed comparison of the services provided within the service area
  and the services to be provided after such action;
  (3) a description of any recent or expected modernization of National
  Weather Service operations which will enhance services in the service area;
  (4) an identification of any area within any State which would not receive
  coverage (at an elevation of 10,000 feet) by the next generation weather
  radar network;
  (5) evidence, based upon operational demonstration of modernized National
  Weather Service operations, which was considered in reaching the conclusion
  that no degradation in service will result from such action; and
  (6) any report of the Committee submitted under section 707(c) that
  evaluates the proposed certification.
  (c) PUBLIC REVIEW- Each certification decision shall be preceded by--
  (1) publication in the Federal Register of a proposed certification; and
  (2) a 60-day period after such publication during which the public may
  provide comments to the Secretary on the proposed certification.
  (d) FINAL DECISION- If after consideration of the public comment received
  under subsection (c) the Secretary, in consultation with the Committee,
  decides to close, consolidate, automate, or relocate any such field office,
  the Secretary shall publish a final certification in the Federal Register
  and submit the certification to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
  and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space,
  and Technology of the House of Representatives.
  (e) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES- The Secretary may not close or relocate any
  field office--
  (1) which is located at an airport, unless the Secretary, in consultation
  with the Secretary of Transportation and the Committee, first conducts
  an air safety appraisal, determines that such action will not result in
  degradation of service that affects aircraft safety, and includes such
  determination in the certification required under subsection (b); or
  (2) which is the only office in a State, unless the Secretary first
  evaluates the effect on weather services provided to in-State users,
  such as State agencies, civil defense officials, and local public safety
  offices, and includes in the certification required under subsection (b)
  the Secretary's determination that a comparable level of weather services
  provided to such in-State users will remain.
  (f) LIAISON OFFICER- The Secretary may not close, consolidate, automate,
  or relocate a field office until arrangements have been made to maintain
  for a period of at least 2 years at least one person in the service area
  to act as a liaison officer who--
  (1) provides timely information regarding the activities of the National
  Weather Service which may affect service to the community, including
  modernization and restructuring; and
  (2) works with area weather service users, including persons associated with
  general aviation, civil defense, emergency preparedness, and the news media,
  with respect to the provision of timely weather warnings and forecasts.
SEC. 707. MODERNIZATION TRANSITION COMMITTEE.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a committee of 12 members to be
  known as the Modernization Transition Committee.
  (b) MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS- (1) The Committee shall consist of--
  (A) five members representing agencies and departments of the United States
  which are responsible for providing or using weather services, including
  but not limited to the National Weather Service, the Department of Defense,
  the Federal Aviation Administration, and the Federal Emergency Management
  Agency; and
  (B) seven members to be appointed by the Secretary from civil defense and
  public safety organizations, news media, any labor organization certified
  by the Federal Labor Relations Authority as an exclusive representative
  of weather service employees, meteorological experts, and private sector
  users of weather information such as pilots and farmers.
  (2) The terms of office of a member of the Committee shall be 3 years;
  except that, of the original membership, four shall serve a 5-year term,
  four shall serve a 4-year term, and four shall serve a 3-year term. No
  individual may serve for more than one additional 3-year term.
  (3) The Secretary shall designate a chairman of the Committee from among
  its members.
  (c) DUTIES- (1) The Committee may review any proposed certification under
  section 706 for which the Secretary has provided a notice of intent to
  certify in the Plan, and should review such a proposed certification if
  there is a significant possibility of degradation of service within the
  affected service area. Upon the request of the Committee, the Secretary shall
  make available to the Committee the supporting documents developed by the
  Secretary in connection with the proposed certification. The Committee may
  prepare and submit to the Secretary, prior to publication of the proposed
  certification, a report which evaluates the proposed certification on the
  basis of the modernization criteria and with respect to the requirement
  that there be no degradation of service.
  (2) The Committee shall advise the Congress and the Secretary on--
  (A) the implementation of the Strategic Plan, annual development of the
  Plan, and establishment and implementation of modernization criteria; and
  (B) matters of public safety and the provision of weather services which
  relate to the comprehensive modernization of the National Weather Service.
  (d) PAY AND TRAVEL EXPENSES- Members of the Committee who are not employees
  of the United States shall each be paid at a rate equal to the daily
  equivalent of the rate for GS-18 of the General Schedule under section
  5332 of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time)
  during which the member is engaged in the actual performance of duties
  vested in the Committee. Members shall receive travel expenses, including
  per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  (e) STAFF- The Secretary shall make available to the Committee such staff,
  information, and assistance as it may reasonably require to carry out
  its activities.
  (f) TERMINATION- The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 1999.
SEC. 708. WEATHER SERVICE REPORT.
  (a) REPORT- The Secretary shall prepare a report on the proposed
  modernization of the National Weather Service and transmit the report,
  not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, to the
  Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
  Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives.
  (b) CONTENTS- (1) The report required by subsection (a) shall identify the
  size of the geographic area of responsibility of each proposed Weather
  Forecast Office and shall include an explanation of the number and type
  of personnel required at each Weather Forecast Office. For each proposed
  Weather Forecast Office covering a geographic area greater than two times
  the average geographic area of responsibility of Weather Forecast Offices
  nationwide, the report shall detail the reasons for assigning those Weather
  Forecast Offices a geographic area which differs significantly from the
  national average.
  (2) The report shall list the number of next generation weather radars
  that will be associated with each Weather Forecast Office nationwide under
  the proposed modernization plan. If some Weather Forecast Offices will
  be associated with more than one such radar, the report shall explain the
  deviation from the National Weather Service's stated policy of associating
  one such radar with one Weather Forecast Office, and shall analyze and
  compare any differences in the expected efficiency of those Weather Forecast
  Offices with Weather Forecast Offices that will be associated with only
  one such radar.
  (c) CONSULTATION- In preparing portions of the report that address Weather
  Forecast Offices located in areas of the Nation that are uniquely dependent
  on general aviation as a means of transportation, the Secretary shall
  consult with local aviation groups. In the case of Alaska, such local
  groups shall include the Alaska Aviation Safety Foundation, the Alaska
  Airmen's Association, and the regional representatives of the Aircraft
  Owners and Pilots Association.
SEC. 709. REPEALS.
  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act,
  Fiscal Year 1989 (15 U.S.C. 313 note), is amended by repealing--
  (1) subsections (b), (c), and (d) of section 407; and
  (2) section 408.
TITLE VIII--NORTH PACIFIC ANADROMOUS STOCKS CONVENTION
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `North Pacific Anadromous Stocks Act of 1992'.
SEC. 802. PURPOSE.
  It is the purpose of this title to implement the Convention for the
  Conservation of Anadromous Stocks in the North Pacific Ocean, signed in
  Moscow, February 11, 1992.
SEC. 803. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title, the term--
  (1) `Anadromous stocks' means stocks of species listed in the Annex to
  the Convention that migrate into the Convention area.
  (2) `Anadromous fish' means fish of the species listed in the Annex to
  the Convention that migrate into the Convention area.
  (3) `Authorized officer' means a law enforcement official authorized to
  enforce this title under section 809(a).
  (4) `Commission' means the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission provided
  for by article VIII of the Convention.
  (5) `Convention' means the Convention for the Conservation of Anadromous
  Stocks of the North Pacific Ocean, signed in Moscow, February 11, 1992.
  (6) `Convention area' means the waters of the North Pacific Ocean and its
  adjacent seas, north of 33 degrees North Latitude, beyond 200 nautical miles
  from the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea is measured.
  (7) `Directed fishing' means fishing targeted at a particular species or
  stock of fish.
  (8) `Ecologically related species' means living marine species which are
  associated with anadromous stocks found in the Convention area, including,
  but not restricted to, both predators and prey of anadromous fish.
  (9) `Enforcement officer' means a law enforcement official authorized by
  any Party to enforce this title.
  (10) `Exclusive economic zone' means the zone established by Proclamation
  Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983. For purposes of applying this title,
  the inner boundary of that zone is a line coterminous with the seaward
  boundary of each of the coastal States.
  (11) `Fish' means finfish, mollusks, crustaceans, and all other forms of
  marine animal and plant life other than marine mammals and birds.
  (12) `Fishing' means--
  (A) the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish, or any other activity
  that can reasonably be expected to result in the catching, taking, or
  harvesting of fish; or
  (B) any operation at sea in preparation for or in direct support of any
  activity described in subparagraph (A).
  (13) `Fishing vessel' means--
  (A) any vessel engaged in catching fish within the Convention area or in
  processing or transporting fish loaded in the Convention area;
  (B) any vessel outfitted to engage in any activity described in subparagraph
  (A);
  (C) any vessel described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
  (14) `Incidental taking' means catching, taking, or harvesting a species
  or stock of fish while conducting directed fishing for another species or
  stock of fish.
  (15) `Party' means Canada, Japan, the Russian Federation, the United States,
  and any other nation that may accede to the Convention.
  (16) `Secretary' means the Secretary of State.
  (17) `United States Section' means the United States Commissioners of
  the Commission.
SEC. 804. UNITED STATES COMMISSIONERS.
  (a) COMMISSIONERS- The United States shall be represented on the Commission
  by not more than three United States Commissioners to be appointed by and
  serve at the pleasure of the President. Each United States Commissioner
  shall be appointed for a term of office not to exceed 4 years, but is
  eligible for reappointment. Of the Commissioners--
  (1) one shall be an official of the United States Government;
  (2) one shall be a resident of the State of Alaska; and
  (3) one shall be a resident of the State of Washington.
An individual is not eligible for appointment under paragraph (2) or (3)
as a Commissioner unless the individual is knowledgeable or experienced
concerning the anadromous stocks and ecologically related species of the
North Pacific Ocean.
  (b) ALTERNATE COMMISSIONERS- The Secretary, in consultation with the
  Secretary of Commerce, may designate from time to time Alternate United
  States Commissioners to the Commission. An Alternate United States
  Commissioner may exercise all designated powers and duties of a United
  States Commissioner in the absence of a duly designated Commissioner for
  whatever reason. The number of such Alternate United States Commissioners
  that may be designated for any such meeting shall be limited to the number
  of authorized United States Commissioners that will not be present.
  (c) UNITED STATES SECTION- The United States Section, in consultation
  with the Advisory Panel established in section 805, shall identify and
  recommend to the Commission research needs and priorities for anadromous
  stocks and ecologically related species subject to the Convention, and
  oversee the United States research programs involving such fisheries,
  stocks, and species.
  (d) COMPENSATION- United States Commissioners and Alternate United
  States Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services as
  Commissioners and Alternate Commissioners.
SEC. 805. ADVISORY PANEL.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PANEL- An Advisory Panel to the United States Section
  is established. The Advisory Panel shall be composed of the following:
  (1) The Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game.
  (2) The Director of the Washington Department of Fisheries.
  (3) One representative of the Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission,
  designated by the Executive Director of that commission.
  (4) Eleven members (six of whom shall be residents of the State of Alaska
  and five of whom shall be residents of the State of Washington), appointed
  by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, from
  among a slate of 12 persons nominated by the Governor of Alaska and a
  slate of 10 persons nominated by the Governor of Washington.
  (b) QUALIFICATIONS- Persons appointed to the Advisory Panel shall be
  individuals who are knowledgeable or experienced concerning anadromous stocks
  and ecologically related species. In submitting a slate of nominees pursuant
  to subsection (a)(4), the Governors of Alaska and Washington shall seek to
  represent the broad range of parties interested in anadromous stocks and
  ecologically related species, and at a minimum shall include on each slate
  at least one representative of commercial salmon fishing interests and of
  environmental interests concerned with protection of living marine resources.
  (c) LIMITATION ON SERVICE- Any person appointed to the Advisory Panel
  pursuant to subsection (a)(4) shall serve for a term not to exceed 4 years,
  and may not serve more than two consecutive terms.
  (d) FUNCTIONS- The Advisory Panel shall be invited to all nonexecutive
  meetings of the United States Section and at such meetings shall be granted
  the opportunity to examine and to be heard on all proposed programs of study
  and investigation, reports, and recommendations of the United States Section.
  (e) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- The members of the Advisory Panel shall
  receive no compensation or travel expenses for their services as such
  members.
SEC. 806. COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
  The Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Commerce, may
  accept or reject, on behalf of the United States, recommendations made by
  the Commission in accordance with article IX of the Convention.
SEC. 807. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CONVENTION.
  (a) RESPONSIBILITIES- The Secretary of Commerce shall be responsible for
  administering provisions of the Convention, this title, and regulations
  issued under this title. The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary
  of Commerce and the Secretary of Transportation, shall be responsible for
  coordinating the participation of the United States in the Commission.
  (b) CONSULTATION AND COOPERATION- In carrying out such functions, the
  Secretary of Commerce--
  (1) shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and the
  United States Section, issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry
  out the purposes and objectives of the Convention and this title; and
  (2) may, with the concurrence of the Secretary, cooperate with the authorized
  officials of the government of any Party.
SEC. 808. COOPERATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Any agency of the Federal Government is authorized, upon
  request of the Commission, to cooperate in the conduct of scientific and
  other programs, and to furnish, on a reimbursable basis, facilities and
  personnel for the purpose of assisting the Commission in carrying out its
  duties under the Convention. Such agency may accept reimbursement from
  the Commission.
  (b) FUNCTIONS OF SECRETARY OF COMMERCE- In carrying out the provisions
  of the Convention and this title, the Secretary of Commerce may arrange
  for cooperation with agencies of the United States, the States, private
  institutions and organizations, and agencies of the government of any Party,
  to conduct scientific and other programs, and may execute such memoranda
  as may be necessary to reflect such agreements.
SEC. 809. ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
  (a) DUTIES OF SECRETARIES OF COMMERCE AND TRANSPORTATION- This title
  shall be enforced by the Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of
  Transportation. Such Secretaries may by agreement utilize, on a reimbursable
  basis or otherwise, the personnel, services, equipment (including aircraft
  and vessels), and facilities of any other Federal agency, including all
  elements of the Department of Defense, and of any State agency, in the
  performance of such duties. Such Secretaries shall, and the head of any
  Federal or State agency that has entered into an agreement with either such
  Secretary under the preceding sentence may (if the agreement so provides),
  authorize officers to enforce the provisions of the Convention, this title,
  and regulations issued under this title. Any such agreement or contract
  entered into pursuant to this section shall be effective only to such
  extent or in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
  (b) DISTRICT COURT JURISDICTION- The district courts of the United States
  shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any case or controversy arising
  under the provisions of this title.
  (c) POWERS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS- Authorized officers may, shoreward of
  the outer boundary of the exclusive economic zone, or during hot pursuit
  from the zone--
  (1) with or without a warrant or other process--
  (A) arrest any person, if the officer has reasonable cause to believe that
  such person has committed an act prohibited by section 810;
  (B) board, and search or inspect, any fishing vessel subject to the
  provisions of the Convention and this title;
  (C) seize any fishing vessel (together with its fishing gear, furniture,
  appurtenances, stores, and cargo) used or employed in, or with respect to
  which it reasonably appears that such vessel was used or employed in, the
  violation of any provision of the Convention, this title, or regulations
  issued under this title;
  (D) seize any fish (wherever found) taken or retained in violation of any
  provision referred to in subparagraph (C);
  (E) seize any other evidence related to any violation of any provision
  referred to in subparagraph (C);
  (2) execute any warrant or other process issued by any court of competent
  jurisdiction; and
  (3) exercise any other lawful authority.
  (d) ADDITIONAL POWERS- (1) An authorized officer may in the Convention area--
  (A) board a vessel of any Party that reasonably can be believed to be
  engaged in directed fishing for, incidental taking of, or processing of
  anadromous fish, and, without warrant or process, inspect equipment, logs,
  documents, catch, and other articles, and question persons, on board the
  vessel, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the Convention,
  this title, or any regulation issued under this title; and
  (B) If any such vessel or person on board is actually engaged in operations
  in violation of any such provision, or there is reasonable ground to believe
  any person or vessel was obviously so engaged before the boarding of such
  vessel by the authorized officer, arrest or seize such person or vessel
  and further investigate the circumstance if necessary.
If an authorized officer, after boarding and investigation, has reasonable
cause to believe that any such fishing vessel or person engaged in
operations in violation of any provision referred to in subparagraph (A),
the officer shall deliver the vessel or person as promptly as practicable
to the enforcement officers of the appropriate Party, in accordance with
the provisions of the Convention.
  (2) When requested by the appropriate authorities of a Party, an authorized
  officer may be directed to attend as a witness, and to produce such available
  records and files or duly certified copies thereof as may be necessary,
  for the prosecution by that Party of any violation of the provisions of
  the Convention or any law of that Party relating to the enforcement thereof.
SEC. 810. UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
  It is unlawful for any person or fishing vessel subject to the jurisdiction
  of the United States--
  (1) to fish for any anadromous fish in the Convention area;
  (2) to retain on board any anadromous fish taken incidentally in a fishery
  directed at nonanadromous fish in the Convention area;
  (3) to fail to return immediately to the sea any anadromous fish taken
  incidentally in a fishery directed at nonanadromous fish in the Convention
  area;
  (4) to ship, transport, offer for sale, sell, purchase, import, export,
  or have custody, control, or possession of, any anadromous fish taken or
  retained in violation of the Convention, this title, or any regulation
  issued under this title;
  (5) to refuse to permit any enforcement officer to board a fishing vessel
  subject to such person's control for purposes of conducting any search or
  inspection in connection with the enforcement of the Convention, this title,
  or any regulation issued under this title;
  (6) to forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere
  with any enforcement officer in the conduct of any search or inspection
  described in paragraph (5);
  (7) to resist a lawful arrest or detection for any act prohibited by
  this section;
  (8) to interfere with, delay, or prevent, by any means, the apprehension,
  arrest, or detection of another person, knowing that such person has
  committed any act prohibited by this section; or
  (9) to violate any provision of the Convention, this title, or any regulation
  issued under this title.
SEC. 811. PENALTIES.
  (a) CIVIL PENALTIES- (1) Any person who is found by the Secretary of
  Commerce, after notice and opportunity for a hearing in accordance with
  section 554 of title 5, United States Code, to have committed an act
  prohibited by section 810 shall be liable to the United States for a
  civil penalty. The amount of the civil penalty shall not exceed $100,000
  for each violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a
  separate offense. The amount of such civil penalty shall be assessed by the
  Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary's designee, by written notice. In
  determining the amount  of such penalty, the Secretary of Commerce shall
  take into account the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the
  prohibited acts committed and, with respect to the violation, the degree
  of culpability, any history of prior offenses, ability to pay, and such
  other matters as justice may require.
  (2) Any person against whom a civil penalty is assessed under paragraph (1)
  may obtain review thereof in the appropriate court of the United States by
  filing a complaint in such court within 30 days from the date of such order
  and by simultaneously serving a copy of such complaint by certified mail
  on the Secretary of Commerce, the Attorney General, and the appropriate
  United States Attorney. The Secretary of Commerce shall promptly file in
  such court a certified copy of the record upon which such violation was
  found or such penalty imposed, as provided in section 2112 of title 28,
  United States Code. The findings and order of the Secretary of Commerce
  shall be set aside by such court if they are not found to be supported
  by substantial evidence, as provided in section 706(2) of title 5, United
  States Code.
  (3) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after
  it has become a final and unappealable order, or after the appropriate
  court has entered final judgment in favor of the Secretary of Commerce,
  the matter shall be referred to the Attorney General, who shall recover the
  amount assessed in any appropriate district court of the United States. In
  such action, the validity and appropriateness of the final order imposing
  the civil penalty shall not be subject to review.
  (4) A fishing vessel (including its fishing gear, furniture, appurtenances,
  stores, and cargo) used in the commission of an act prohibited by section
  810 shall be liable in rem for any civil penalty assessed for such violation
  under paragraph (1) and may be proceeded against in any district court of
  the United States having jurisdiction thereof. Such penalty shall constitute
  a maritime lien on such vessel that may be recovered in an action in rem in
  the district court of the United States having jurisdiction over the vessel.
  (5) The Secretary of Commerce may compromise, modify, or remit, with or
  without conditions, any civil penalty that is subject to imposition or
  that has been imposed under this section.
  (6) For the purposes of conducting any hearing under this section, the
  Secretary of Commerce may issue subpoenas for the attendance and testimony
  of witnesses and the production of relevant papers, books, and documents,
  and may administer oaths. Witnesses summoned shall be paid the same fees and
  mileage that are paid to witnesses in the courts of the United States. In
  case of contempt or refusal to obey a subpoena served upon any person
  pursuant to this paragraph, the district court of the United States for any
  district in which such person is found, resides, or transacts business,
  upon application by the United States and after notice to such person,
  shall have jurisdiction to issue an order requiring such person to appear
  and give testimony before the Secretary of Commerce or to appear and produce
  documents before the Secretary of Commerce, or both, and any failure to obey
  such order of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof.
  (b) OFFENSES- (1) A person is guilty of an offense if the person commits
  any act prohibited by section 810 (5), (6), (7), or (8).
  (2) Any offense described in paragraph (1) is a class A misdemeanor
  punishable by a fine under title 18, United States code, or imprisonment
  for not more than 6 months, or both; except that if in the commission of
  any offense the person uses a dangerous weapon, engages in conduct that
  causes bodily injury to any enforcement officer, or places any such officer
  in fear of imminent bodily injury, the offense is a felony punishable by
  a fine under title 18, United States Code, or imprisonment for not more
  than 10 years, or both.
  (c) FORFEITURE- (1) Any fishing vessel (including its fishing gear,
  furniture, appurtenances, stores, and cargo) used, and any fish (or a fair
  market value thereof) taken or retained, in any manner, in connection with
  or as a result of the commission of any act prohibited by section 810 shall
  be subject to forfeiture to the United States. All or part of such vessel
  may, and all such fish shall, be forfeited to the United States pursuant
  to a civil proceeding under this section.
  (2) Any district court of the United States shall have jurisdiction,
  upon application of the Attorney General on behalf of the United States,
  to order any forfeiture authorized under paragraph (1) and any action
  provided for under paragraph (4).
  (3) if a judgment is entered for the United States in a civil forfeiture
  proceeding under this section, the Attorney General may seize any property
  or other interest declared forfeited to the United States, which has not
  previously been seized pursuant to this title or for which security has not
  previously been obtained. The provisions of the customs laws relating to--
  (A) the seizure, forfeiture, and condemnation of property for violation
  of the customs law;
  (B) the disposition of such property or the proceeds from the sale
  thereof; and
  (C) the remission or mitigation of any such forfeiture;
shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to have been
incurred, under the provisions of this title, unless such provisions are
inconsistent with the purposes, policy, and provisions of this title.
  (4)(A) Any officer authorized to serve any process in rem that is issued
  by a court having jurisdiction under section 809(b) shall--
  (i) stay the execution of such process; or
  (ii) discharge any fish seized pursuant to such process;
upon receipt of a satisfactory bond or other security from any person claiming
such property. Such bond or other security shall be conditioned upon such
person delivering such property to the appropriate court upon order thereof,
without any impairment of its value, or paying the monetary value of such
property pursuant to an order of such court. Judgment shall be recoverable
on such bond or other security against both the principal and any sureties in
the event that any condition thereof is breached, as determined by such court.
  (B) Any fish seized pursuant to this title may be sold, subject to the
  approval and direction of the appropriate court, for not less than the
  fair market value thereof. The proceeds of any such sale shall be deposited
  with such court pending the disposition of the matter involved.
  (5) For purposes of this section, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that
  all fish found on board a fishing vessel and which is seized in connection
  with an act prohibited by section 810 were taken or retained in violation
  of the Convention and this title.
SEC. 812. FUNDING REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated from time
  to time such sums as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes and
  provisions of the Convention and this title, including--
  (1) necessary travel expenses of the United States Commissioners or
  Alternate Commissioners; and
  (2) the United States' share of the joint expenses of the Commission.
  (b) RESEARCH- Such funds as shall be made available to the Secretary of
  Commerce for research and related activities shall be expended to carry
  out the program of the Commission in accordance with the recommendations
  of the United States Section and to carry out other research and observer
  programs pursuant to the Convention.
SEC. 813. DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
  The Secretary shall dispose of any United States property held by the
  International North Pacific Fisheries Commission on the date of its
  termination in a manner that would further the purposes of this title.
SEC. 814. REPEAL OF THE NORTH PACIFIC FISHERIES ACT OF 1954.
  The Act of August 12, 1954 (16 U.S.C. 1021-1035) is repealed.
TITLE IX--NEW ENGLAND GROUNDFISH
SEC. 901. FISHERY ENFORCEMENT.
  Section 311 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16
  U.S.C. 1861) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
  (2) by inserting immediately after subsection (e) the following new
  subsection:
  `(f) Enforcement of Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan-
  `(1) ENFORCEMENT AGREEMENTS- Beginning not later than October 1, 1993,
  the Secretary shall, if requested by the Governor of a State represented
  on the New England Fishery Management Council, enter into an agreement
  under subsection (a), with each of the States represented on such Council,
  that authorizes the marine law enforcement agency of such State to perform
  duties of the Secretary relating to enforcement of the Northeast Multispecies
  Fishery Management Plan.
  `(2) REIMBURSEMENT- An agreement with a State under this subsection shall
  provide, subject to the availability of appropriations, for reimbursement of
  the State for expenses incurred in detection and prosecution of violations
  of any fishery management plan approved by the Secretary.
  `(3) Coast guard enforcement working group-
  `(A) ESTABLISHMENT- The Commander of the First Coast Guard District shall
  establish an informal fisheries enforcement working group to improve the
  overall compliance with and effectiveness of the regulations issued under
  the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan.
  `(B) MEMBERSHIP- The working group shall consist of members selected by
  the Commander, and shall include--
  `(i) individuals who are representatives of various fishing ports located
  in the States represented on the New England Fishery Management Council;
  `(ii) captains of fishing vessels that operate in waters under the
  jurisdiction of that Council; and
  `(iii) other individuals the Commander considers appropriate.
  `(C) NON-FEDERAL STATUS OF WORKING GROUP MEMBERS- An individual shall not
  receive any compensation for, and shall not be considered to be a Federal
  employee based on, membership in the working group.
  `(D) MEETINGS- The working group shall meet, at the call of the Commander,
  at least 4 times each year. The meetings shall be held at various major
  fishing ports in States represented on the New England Fishery Management
  Council, as specified by the Commander.
  `(4) USE OF FINES AND PENALTIES- Amounts available to the Secretary
  under this Act which are attributable to fines and penalties imposed for
  violations of the Northeast Multispecies Fishery Management Plan shall be
  used by the Secretary pursuant to this section to enforce that Plan.'.
SEC. 902. FISHERIES REINVESTMENT PROGRAM.
  (a) PROGRAM- Title III of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
  Act (16 U.S.C. 1851 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 314. NORTHWEST ATLANTIC OCEAN FISHERIES REINVESTMENT PROGRAM.
  `(a) PROGRAM- (1) Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary shall
  establish a Northwest Atlantic Ocean Fisheries Reinvestment Program for
  the purposes of--
  `(A) promoting development of commercial fisheries and markets for
  underutilized species of the northwest Atlantic Ocean;
  `(B) developing alternative fishing opportunities for participants in the
  New England groundfish fishery;
  `(C) providing technical support and assistance to United States fishermen
  and fish processors to improve the value-added processing of underutilized
  species and to make participation in fisheries for underutilized species
  of the northwest Atlantic Ocean economically viable;
  `(D) creating new economic opportunities through the improved processing
  and expanded use of fish waste; and
  `(E) helping to restore overfished New England groundfish stocks through
  aquaculture or hatchery programs.
  `(2) CONSULTATION- In establishing and implementing the Northwest Fisheries
  Reinvestment Program, the Secretary shall consult with representatives of
  the commercial fishing industry, the seafood processing industry, and the
  academic community (including the National Sea Grant Program).
  `(3) ACTIVITIES UNDER PROGRAM- Subject to the availability of appropriations,
  the Secretary shall award contracts, grants and other financial assistance to
  United States citizens to carry out the purposes of subsection (1), under the
  terms and conditions provided in section 2(c) of the Act of August 11, 1939
  (15 U.S.C. 713c-3(c); commonly referred to as the `Saltonstall-Kennedy Act'),
  except that, in making awards under this section for projects involving
  participation in fisheries for underutilized species, the Secretary shall
  give the highest priority to a person who owns or operates a fishing vessel
  permitted under this Act to participate in the New England groundfish
  fishery who agrees to surrender that permit to the Secretary during the
  duration of the contract, grant or other assistance.
  `(4) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1993 through 1997 to carry out the
  purposes of this section. For fiscal year 1993 no more than $1,000,000,
  and for fiscal year 1994 no more than $2,000,000, of such funds may be
  provided from monies made available under section 2(b) of the Act of August
  11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 713c-3(b)).
  `(b) ASSISTANCE OF OTHER AGENCIES- The Secretary shall actively seek the
  assistance of other Federal agencies in the development of fisheries for
  underutilized species of the northwest Atlantic Ocean, including, to the
  extent permitted by other applicable laws, assistance from the Secretary
  of Agriculture in including such underutilized species as agricultural
  commodities in the programs of the Foreign Agricultural Service for
  which amounts are authorized under the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
  and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3359).
  `(c) MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR UNDERUTILIZED SPECIES- The New England Fishery
  Management Council, in consultation with other appropriate Councils, shall
  develop fishery management plans as soon as possible for any underutilized
  species of the northwest Atlantic Ocean that is not covered under such a
  plan, in order to prevent overfishing of that species.
  `(d) UNDERUTILIZED SPECIES DEFINED- For purposes of this section, the term
  `underutilized species of the northwest Atlantic Ocean' means any fish
  species of the northwest Atlantic Ocean that is identified, by the Director
  of the Northeast Fisheries Center of the National Marine Fisheries Service,
  as an underutilized species.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents in the first section of the
  Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act is amended by inserting
  immediately after the item relating to section 313 the following new item:
`Sec. 314. Northwest Atlantic Oceans Fisheries Reinvestment Program.'.
  (c) AMENDMENTS TO THE SALTONSTALL-KENNEDY ACT- Section 2(b)(1)(A) of the
  Act of August 11, 1939 (15 U.S.C. 713c-3(b)(1)(A)); commonly referred to
  as the `Saltonstall-Kennedy Act'), is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of clause (i); and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new clause:
  `(iii) to implement the Northwest Atlantic Ocean Fisheries Reinvestment
  Program established under section 314 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
  and Management Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.