 
--H.R.2321--
H.R.2321
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical Park in the State
of Ohio, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Dayton Aviation Heritage Preservation Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
  The purposes of this Act are--
  (1) to establish a unit of the National Park System in Dayton, Ohio,
  consisting of certain lands and structures associated with Wilbur and
  Orville Wright and the early development of aviation; and
  (2) to create partnerships among Federal, State, and local governments
  and the private sector to preserve, enhance, and interpret for present
  and future generations the historic and cultural structures, districts,
  and artifacts in Dayton and the Miami Valley in the State of Ohio, which
  are associated with the Wright brothers, the invention and development
  of aviation, or the life and works of Paul Laurence Dunbar, and which,
  as a whole, represent a nationally significant resource.
TITLE I--DAYTON AVIATION HERITAGE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK
SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAYTON AVIATION HERITAGE NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established, as a unit of the National Park
  System in the State of Ohio, the Dayton Aviation Heritage National Historical
  Park (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `park').
  (b) AREA INCLUDED- The park shall consist of the following sites, as
  generally depicted on a map entitled `Proposed Dayton Aviation Heritage
  National Historical Park', numbered NHP-DAH 80,000, and dated February 1992:
  (1) A core parcel in Dayton, Ohio, which shall consist of the Wright Cycle
  Company Building, Hoover Block, and lands between.
  (2) Huffman Prairie Flying Field, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.
  (3) The Wright 1905 Flyer and Wright Hall, Dayton, Ohio.
  (4) The Paul Laurence Dunbar home, Dayton, Ohio.
SEC. 102. PROTECTION OF HISTORIC PROPERTIES.
  (a) ACQUISITION OF PROPERTIES WITHIN THE PARK- Within the boundaries of the
  park the Secretary shall, subject to the availability of appropriated funds,
  acquire the Wright Cycle Company Building and Hoover Block, and may acquire
  other properties, or interests therein, referred to in section 101(b), by
  donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer.
  (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized to enter into
  cooperative agreements with other Federal agencies, State and local public
  bodies, and private interests and organizations relating to the preservation,
  development, use, and interpretation of properties within the boundaries of
  the park in order to contribute to the appropriate use and management of
  such properties consistent with the purposes of this Act. Such agreements
  shall provide, whenever appropriate, that--
  (1) the public may have access to any such property at specified reasonable
  times for purposes of viewing such property or the exhibits or attending
  programs established by the Secretary under this subsection; and
  (2) the Secretary may make such improvements to any such property as the
  Secretary deems necessary after consultation with the Commission to enhance
  the public use and enjoyment of such property and programs.
SEC. 103. PARK GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 3 complete fiscal years after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary, with the advice of the Commission,
  shall prepare and submit to the Congress a general management plan for
  the park which includes but is not limited to the information described
  in section 12(b) of the Act of August 18, 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)), and
  which takes into account the preservation and development plan developed
  under section 202.
  (b) PARK PARTNERSHIPS- The management plan shall identify partnership
  opportunities between the Secretary and other Federal, State, and
  local governments and the private sector for the development, use, and
  interpretation of properties within the park.
SEC. 104. STUDIES.
  The Secretary shall study the following properties to determine the
  feasibility and suitability of including them within the park:
  (1) Properties within the Wright-Dunbar Historic District.
  (2) Wright Company Factory, Dayton, Ohio. A report of the study of such
  properties shall be submitted as part of the general management plan
  required by section 103.
SEC. 105. GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The park shall be administered in accordance with this
  Act and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the
  National Park System, including, but not limited to, the Act entitled
  `An Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes',
  approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1-4).
  (b) DONATIONS- The Secretary may accept donations of funds, property, or
  services from individuals, foundations, corporations, and other private
  entities, and from public entities, for the purposes of managing the park.
  (c) PROGRAMS- The Secretary may sponsor, coordinate, or enter into
  cooperative agreements for educational or cultural programs related to the
  park as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of
  this Act.
  (d) IDENTIFICATION AND MARKING OF SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL SITES- The
  Secretary may identify other significant sites related to the Wright
  brothers, the history of aviation, or Paul Laurence Dunbar in the Miami
  Valley which are related to the park, and, with the consent of the owner
  or owners thereof, may mark the sites appropriately and make reference to
  them in any interpretive literature. The Secretary may provide interpretive
  markers along transportation routes leading to units of the park.
  (e) INTERPRETATION OF HUFFMAN PRAIRIE FLYING FIELD- The Secretary may
  provide interpretation of Huffman Prairie Flying Field on Wright Brothers
  Hill, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio.
SEC. 106. COOPERATION OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.
  Any Federal entity conducting or supporting activities directly affecting
  the park shall--
  (1) consult with, cooperate with, and to the maximum extent practicable,
  coordinate its activities with the Secretary; and
  (2) conduct or support such activities in a manner which--
  (A) to the maximum extent practicable is consistent with the standards
  and criteria established pursuant to section 202(b)(9); and
  (B) to the maximum extent practicable will not have an adverse effect on
  the historic resources of the park.
SEC. 107. COORDINATION BETWEEN THE SECRETARY AND THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
  The decisions concerning the execution of this Act as it applies to
  properties under control of the Secretary of Defense shall be made by such
  Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Interior.
SEC. 108. ASSISTANCE.
  (a) TECHNICAL AND PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE- The Secretary may provide to
  any owner of property within the park, and to any organization having an
  agreement with the Secretary under section 102(b), such technical assistance
  as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act.
  (b) INTERPRETATIVE MATERIALS- The Secretary is authorized to publish
  interpretative materials for historic aviation resources in the Miami Valley.
SEC. 109. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
  carry out this title: Provided, That the amount to be appropriated for the
  operation, development or restoration of non-federally owned properties
  within the boundaries of the park shall not exceed $200,000.
TITLE II--DAYTON AVIATION HERITAGE COMMISSION
SEC. 201. DAYTON AVIATION HERITAGE COMMISSION.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the Dayton Aviation Heritage
  Commission to assist Federal, State, and local authorities and the private
  sector in preserving and managing the historic resources in the Miami Valley,
  Ohio, associated with the Wright brothers, aviation, or Paul Laurence Dunbar.
  (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Commission shall consist of 13 members as follows:
  (1) 3 members appointed by the Secretary, who shall have demonstrated
  expertise in aviation history, black history and literature, aviation
  technology, or historic preservation, at least one of whom shall represent
  the National Park Service.
  (2) 3 members appointed by the Secretary from recommendations submitted by
  the Governor of the State of Ohio, who shall have demonstrated expertise
  in aviation history, black history and literature, aviation technology,
  or historic preservation, at least one of whom shall represent the Ohio
  Historical Society.
  (3) 1 member appointed by the Secretary of Defense, who shall represent
  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
  (4) 3 members appointed by the Secretary from recommendations submitted
  by the City Commission of Dayton, Ohio, at least one of whom shall reside
  near the core parcel of the park (as described in section 101(b)(1)).
  (5) 1 member appointed by the Secretary from recommendations submitted by
  the Board of Commissioners of Montgomery County, Ohio.
  (6) 1 member appointed by the Secretary from recommendations submitted by
  the Board of Commissioners of Greene County, Ohio.
  (7) 1 member appointed by the Secretary from recommendations submitted by
  the City Council of Fairborn, Ohio.
  (c) TERMS- (1) Members shall be appointed for terms of 3 years. A member
  may be reappointed only 3 times unless such member was originally appointed
  to fill a vacancy pursuant to subsection (e)(1), in which case such member
  may be reappointed 4 times. A member may serve after the expiration of
  his term until a successor is appointed.
  (2) The Secretary shall appoint the first members of the Commission
  within 30 days after the date on which the Secretary has received all of
  the recommendations for appointment pursuant to subsections (b) (2), (4),
  (5), (6), and (7).
  (d) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR- The chair and vice chair of the Commission shall
  be elected by the members of the Commission. The terms of the chair and
  vice chair shall be 2 years. The vice chair shall serve as chair in the
  absence of the chair.
  (e) VACANCY- (1) Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the
  same manner in which the original appointment was made, except that the
  Secretary responsible for such appointment shall fill any such vacancy
  within 30 days after receiving a recommendation for the position.
  (2) A member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder
  of the term for which his predecessor was appointed. A member may serve
  after the expiration of his term until his successor has taken office.
  (f) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Commission then serving shall
  constitute a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.
  (g) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet not less than 3 times a year at
  the call of the chair or a majority of its members.
  (h) PAY- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the Commission
  shall serve without pay.
  (2) Members of the Commission who are full-time officers or employees
  of the United States shall receive no additional pay by reason of their
  service on the Commission.
  (3) While away from their homes or regular places of business in the
  performance of services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall
  be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in
  the same manner as persons employed intermittently in the Government service
  are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
  (i) FACA- Section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
  U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
  (j) TERMINATION- The Commission shall cease to exist on January 1, 2004.
SEC. 202. DAYTON HISTORIC RESOURCES PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Within 2 years after the date on which the Commission
  conducts its first meeting, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary
  a preservation and development plan which may include the Wright-Dunbar
  Historic District, the Dunbar Historic District, the Ed Sines House and
  the Daniel Fitch House, and the 45 sites identified in Appendix A of
  the document entitled `Study of Alternatives Dayton's Aviation Heritage,
  Ohio' published by the National Park Service. Within 90 days after the
  receipt of such plan, the Secretary shall approve such plan or return it
  with comments to the Commission. If the Secretary has taken no action
  after 90 days upon receipt, the plan shall be considered approved. If
  the Secretary disapproves a plan, the Commission shall submit a revised
  plan to the Secretary. The plan shall include specific preservation and
  interpretation goals and a priority timetable for their achievement. The
  Secretary shall forward copies of the approved plan to the Congress.
  (b) CONTENTS OF PLAN- The plan referred to in subsection (a) shall--
  (1) set detailed goals for the preservation, protection, enhancement,
  and utilization of the resources of sites referred to in subsection (a);
  (2) identify properties which should be preserved, restored, developed,
  maintained, or acquired;
  (3) include a tentative budget for the subsequent five fiscal years;
  (4) propose a management strategy for a permanent organizational structure
  to enhance and coordinate such resources, and aviation-related properties,
  and institutions;
  (5) recommend methods for establishing partnerships with Federal, State,
  and local governments and the private sector to foster development and to
  preserve and enhance such resources;
  (6) propose transportation links, including pedestrian facilities and
  bicycle trails among historic aviation sites including an interurban
  between the Wright-Dunbar Historic District and the historic resources at
  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base;
  (7) address the use of private vehicles, traffic patterns, parking, and
  public transportation;
  (8) propose educational and cultural programs to encourage appreciation
  of such resources;
  (9) establish standards and criteria applicable to the construction,
  preservation, restoration, alteration, and use of the properties among
  such resources;
  (10) establish an index which shall contain documentary evidence of
  historical and cultural significance and which includes property in the
  Miami Valley associated with the Wright brothers, the history of aviation,
  or Paul Laurence Dunbar.
  (c) CONSULTATION- In developing the plan, the Commission shall consult with
  appropriate officials of any local government or Federal or State agency
  which has jurisdiction over historic aviation resources in the Miami Valley
  area. The Commission shall also consult with property owners and business,
  historic, professional, neighborhood, and citizen organizations affected
  by the actions proposed in the plan.
SEC. 203. GENERAL POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
  (a) HEARINGS- The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such
  times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the
  Commission may deem advisable.
  (b) DONATIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may
  seek and accept donations of funds, property, or service from individuals,
  foundations, corporations, and other private entities and public entities
  for the purpose of carrying out its duties.
  (c) USE OF FUNDS TO OBTAIN MONEY- The Commission may use its funds to obtain
  money from any source under any program or law requiring the recipient of
  such money to make a contribution in order to receive such money.
  (d) MAIL- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
  manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
  the United States.
  (e) USES OF ACQUIRED ASSETS- Any revenues or other assets acquired by the
  Commission by donations, the lease or sale of property, or fees for services
  shall be available to the Commission, without fiscal year limitations,
  to be used for any function of the Commission.
  (f) HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL PROGRAMS- The Commission is authorized to carry
  out historical, educational, or cultural programs which encourage or enhance
  appreciation of the historic resources in the Miami Valley associated with
  the Wright brothers, aviation, or the life and works of Paul Laurence Dunbar.
  (g) TECHNICAL AND PRESERVATION ASSISTANCE- The Commission may provide
  technical and preservation assistance to owners of property within the
  districts, sites, and properties referred to in section 202(a) consistent
  with the purposes of this Act.
  (h) OBTAINING PROPERTY- (1) The Commission may obtain by purchase, rental,
  donation, or otherwise, such property, facilities, and services as may be
  needed to carry out its duties except that the Commission may not acquire
  any real property or interest in real property otherwise than under paragraph
  (2).
  (2) Subject to paragraph (3), the Commission may acquire real property,
  or interests in real property, in the districts, sites, and properties
  referred to in section 202(a)--
  (A) by gift or devise; or
  (B) by purchase from a willing seller with money which was given or
  bequeathed to the Commission on the condition that such money would be
  used to purchase real property, or interests in real property, in such
  district and sites.
  (3) Any real property or interest in real property acquired by the Commission
  under paragraph (2) shall be conveyed by the Commission to an appropriate
  public agency, as determined by the Commission. Any such conveyance shall
  be made--
  (A) as soon as practicable after such acquisition;
  (B) without consideration; and
  (C) on the condition that the real property or interest in real property
  so conveyed is used for public purposes.
SEC. 204. STAFF OF COMMISSION.
  (a) DIRECTOR- The Commission shall have a Director who shall be appointed
  by the Commission.
  (b) ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL- The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of
  such additional personnel as the Commission deems necessary. Such staff may
  include specialists in areas such as interpretation, historic preservation,
  black history and literature, aviation history and technology, and urban
  revitalization.
  (c) TEMPORARY SERVICES- Subject to such rules as may be adopted by the
  Commission, the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services
  to the same extent as is authorized by section 3109(b) of title 5, United
  States Code, but at rates determined by the Commission to be reasonable.
  (d) DETAIL- Upon request of the Commission, the head of any Federal agency
  represented by a member on the Commission may detail, on a reimbursable
  basis, any of the personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist it
  in carrying out its duties under this Act.
  (e) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT- The Administrator of the General Services
  Administration shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis
  such administrative support services as the Commission may request.
  (f) STATE AND LOCAL SERVICES- The Commission may accept the services of
  personnel detailed from the State or any political subdivision of the State
  and may reimburse the State or such political subdivision for such services.
  (g) INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE-
  The director and staff of the Commission may be appointed without regard to
  the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in
  the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions
  of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
  classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no individual
  so appointed may receive pay in excess of the annual rate of basic pay
  payable for grade GS-15 of the General Schedule.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated annually to the Commission to
  carry out its duties under this Act $350,000, except that the Federal
  contribution to the Commission shall not exceed 50 percent of the annual
  costs to the Commission in carrying out those duties.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.