 
--H.R.2042--
H.R.2042
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for activities under the Federal Fire Prevention
and
Control Act of 1974, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Fire Administration Authorization Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 17(g)(1) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974
  (15 U.S.C. 2216(g)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (B);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting
  in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
  `(D) $25,550,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992;
  `(E) $26,521,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993; and
  `(F) $27,529,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994.'.
SEC. 102. PRIORITY ACTIVITIES OF THE UNITED STATES FIRE ADMINISTRATION.
  (a) PRIORITY ACTIVITIES- In expending funds appropriated pursuant to
  the amendments made by section 101 of this Act, the United States Fire
  Administration shall give priority to--
  (1) reducing the incidence of residential fires, especially in residences
  of the very old, the very young, or the disabled in urban and rural areas,
  through the development and dissemination of public education and awareness
  programs, through arson research and technical assistance programs, and
  through research and development on new technologies;
  (2) working with State Fire Marshals and other State level fire safety
  offices to identify fire problems that are national in scope;
  (3) disseminating information about the activities and programs of the
  United States Fire Administration to State and local fire services;
  (4) enhancing the residential sprinkler programs, including research,
  demonstration activities, and technical assistance to the public and
  private sectors;
  (5) enhancing research into sprinkler programs in areas or structures with
  limited or no domestic water supply;
  (6) through the National Fire Academy, enhancing the residential and field
  program in support of State level training programs, particularly those
  that support the volunteer fire service; and
  (7) strengthening programs that help protect the lives and safety of fire
  and emergency medical services personnel, including research into causes
  of death and injuries, research and development on new technologies to
  mitigate and prevent injuries, dissemination of information, and technical
  assistance to State and local fire departments.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The United States Fire Administration shall,
  within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, submit a report to
  the Congress on the activities undertaken pursuant to subsection (a)(1).
SEC. 103. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF HOTEL AND MOTEL FIRE SAFETY ACT OF 1990.
  The United States Fire Administration shall, within 6 months after the
  date of enactment of this Act, report to the Committee on Commerce,
  Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science,
  Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives on its progress
  in implementing the Hotel and Motel Fire Safety Act of 1990 (Public Law
  101-391; 104 Stat. 747), including amendments made by that Act. The report
  shall specify the nature of expenditures made as of the date of the report,
  as well as including an estimate of the costs and a specific schedule
  for implementation.
SEC. 104. LISTING OF DESIGNATED PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION.
  Section 28 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
  U.S.C. 2224) is amended--
  (1) by striking `CERTIFIED' in the section heading; and
  (2) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by inserting `(acting through its Governor or the Governor's designee)'
  immediately after `each State' wherever it appears; and
  (B) by striking `the Governor of the State or his designee certifies'.
SEC. 105. FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL GUIDELINES FOR PLACES OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION.
  (a) EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS- Section 29 of
  the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2225),
  is amended by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c)
  and (d), respectively, and by inserting immediately after subsection (a)
  the following new subsection:
  `(b) EXCEPTIONS- (1) The requirement described in subsection (a)(2) shall
  not apply to a place of public accommodation affecting commerce with
  an automatic sprinkler system installed before October 25, 1992, if the
  automatic sprinkler system is installed in compliance with an applicable
  standard (adopted by the governmental authority having jurisdiction, and
  in effect, at the time of installation) that required the placement of a
  sprinkler head in the sleeping area of each guest room.
  `(2) The requirement described in subsection (a)(2) shall not apply to a
  place of public accommodation affecting commerce to the extent that such
  place of public accommodation affecting commerce is subject to a standard
  that includes a requirement or prohibition that prevents compliance with a
  provision of National Fire Protection Association Standard 13 or 13-R. In
  such a case, the place of public accommodation affecting commerce is exempt
  only from that specific provision.'.
  (b) DEFINITIONS- Section 29 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act
  of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2225), is amended by adding at the end of subsection
  (d), as redesignated by this section, the following new paragraph:
  `(3) The term `governmental authority having jurisdiction' means the
  Federal, State, local, or other governmental entity with statutory or
  regulatory authority for the approval of fire safety systems, equipment,
  installations, or procedures within a specified locality.'.
SEC. 106. FIRE SAFETY SYSTEMS IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED BUILDINGS.
  (a) AMENDMENT- The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 (15
  U.S.C. 2201 et seq.), is amended by adding at the end the following new
  section:
`SEC. 31. FIRE SAFETY SYSTEMS IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED BUILDINGS.
  `(a) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section, the following definitions
  apply:
  `(1) The term `affordable cost' means the cost to a Federal agency of
  leasing office space in a building that is protected by an automatic
  sprinkler system or equivalent level of safety, which cost is no more than
  10 percent greater than the cost of leasing available comparable office
  space in a building that is not so protected.
  `(2) The term `automatic sprinkler system' means an electronically
  supervised, integrated system of piping to which sprinklers are attached
  in a systematic pattern, and which, when activated by heat from a fire--
  `(A) will protect human lives by discharging water over the fire area, in
  accordance with the National Fire Protection Association Standard 13, 13D,
  or 13R, whichever is appropriate for the type of building and occupancy
  being protected, or any successor standard thereto; and
  `(B) includes an alarm signaling system with appropriate warning signals
  (to the extent such alarm systems and warning signals are required by
  Federal, State, or local laws or regulations) installed in accordance with
  the National Fire Protection Association Standard 72, or any successor
  standard thereto.
  `(3) The term `equivalent level of safety' means an alternative design or
  system (which may include automatic sprinkler systems), based upon fire
  protection engineering analysis, which achieves a level of safety equal
  to or greater than that provided by automatic sprinkler systems.
  `(4) The term `Federal employee office building' means any office building
  in the United States, whether owned or leased by the Federal Government,
  that is regularly occupied by more than 25 full-time Federal employees in
  the course of their employment.
  `(5) The term `housing assistance'--
  `(A) means assistance provided by the Federal Government to be used in
  connection with the provision of housing, that is provided in the form of
  a grant, contract, loan, loan guarantee, cooperative agreement, interest
  subsidy, insurance, or direct appropriation; and
  `(B) does not include assistance provided by the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs; the Federal Emergency Management Agency; the Secretary of Housing
  and Urban Development under the single family mortgage insurance programs
  under the National Housing Act or the homeownership assistance program under
  section 235 of such Act; the National Homeownership Trust; the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation under the affordable housing program under
  section 40 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or the Resolution Trust
  Corporation under the affordable housing program under section 21A(c)
  of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act.
  `(6) The term `hazardous areas' means those areas in a building referred
  to as hazardous areas in National Fire Protection Association Standard 101,
  known as the Life Safety Code, or any successor standard thereto.
  `(7) The term `multifamily property' means--
  `(A) in the case of housing for Federal employees or their dependents,
  a residential building consisting of more than 2 residential units that
  are under one roof; and
  `(B) in any other case, a residential building consisting of more than 4
  residential units that are under one roof.
  `(8) The term `prefire plan' means specific plans for fire fighting
  activities at a property or location.
  `(9) The term `rebuilding' means the repairing or reconstructing of portions
  of a multifamily property where the cost of the alterations is 70 percent
  or more of the replacement cost of the completed multifamily property, not
  including the value of the land on which the multifamily property is located.
  `(10) The term `renovated' means the repairing or reconstructing of 50
  percent or more of the current value of a Federal employee office building,
  not including the value of the land on which the Federal employee office
  building is located.
  `(11) The term `smoke detectors' means single or multiple station,
  self-contained alarm devices designed to respond to the presence of
  visible or invisible particles of combustion, installed in accordance
  with the National Fire Protection Association Standard 74 or any successor
  standard thereto.
  `(12) The term `United States' means the States collectively.
  `(b) FEDERAL EMPLOYEE OFFICE BUILDINGS- (1)(A) No Federal funds may be used
  for the construction or purchase of a Federal employee office building of 6
  or more stories unless during the period of occupancy by Federal employees
  the building is protected by an automatic sprinkler system or equivalent
  level of safety. No Federal funds may be used for the construction or
  purchase of any other Federal employee office building unless during
  the period of occupancy by Federal employees the hazardous areas of the
  building are protected by automatic sprinkler systems or an equivalent
  level of safety.
  `(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), no Federal funds may be used
  for the lease of a Federal employee office building of 6 or more stories,
  where at least some portion of the federally leased space is on the sixth
  floor or above and at least 35,000 square feet of space is federally
  occupied, unless during the period of occupancy by Federal employees
  the entire Federal employee office building is protected by an automatic
  sprinkler system or equivalent level of safety. No Federal funds may be
  used for the lease of any other Federal employee office building unless
  during the period of occupancy by Federal employees the hazardous areas
  of the entire Federal employee office building are protected by automatic
  sprinkler systems or an equivalent level of safety.
  `(ii) The first sentence of clause (i) shall not apply to the lease
  of a building the construction of which is completed before the date of
  enactment of this section if the leasing agency certifies that no suitable
  building with automatic sprinkler systems or an equivalent level of safety
  is available at an affordable cost.
  `(iii) Within 3 years after such date of enactment, and periodically
  thereafter, the Comptroller General shall audit a selection of certifications
  made under clause (ii) and report to Congress on the results of such audit.
  `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to--
  `(A) a Federal employee office building that was owned by the Federal
  Government before the date of enactment of this section;
  `(B) space leased in a Federal employee office building if the space was
  leased by the Federal Government before such date of enactment;
  `(C) space leased on a temporary basis for not longer than 6 months;
  `(D) a Federal employee office building that becomes a Federal employee
  office building pursuant to a commitment to move Federal employees into
  the building that is made prior to such date of enactment; or
  `(E) a Federal employee office building that is owned or managed by the
  Resolution Trust Corporation.
Nothing in this subsection shall require the installation of an automatic
sprinkler system or equivalent level of safety by reason of the leasing,
after such date of enactment, of space below the sixth floor in a Federal
employee office building.
  `(3) No Federal funds may be used for the renovation of a Federal employee
  office building of 6 or more stories that is owned by the Federal Government
  unless after that renovation the Federal employee office building is
  protected by an automatic sprinkler system or equivalent level of safety. No
  Federal funds may be used for the renovation of any other Federal employee
  office building that is owned by the Federal Government unless after that
  renovation the hazardous areas of the Federal employee office building are
  protected by automatic sprinkler systems or an equivalent level of safety.
  `(4) No Federal funds may be used for entering into or renewing a lease of a
  Federal employee office building of 6 or more stories that is renovated after
  the date of enactment of this section, where at least some portion of the
  federally leased space is on the sixth floor or above and at least 35,000
  square feet of space is federally occupied, unless after that renovation
  the Federal employee office building is protected by an automatic sprinkler
  system or equivalent level of safety. No Federal funds may be used for
  entering into or renewing a lease of any other Federal employee office
  building that is renovated after such date of enactment of this section,
  unless after that renovation the hazardous areas of the Federal employee
  office building are protected by automatic sprinkler systems or an equivalent
  level of safety.
  `(c) HOUSING- (1)(A) No Federal funds may be used for the construction,
  purchase, lease, or operation by the Federal Government of housing in the
  United States for Federal employees or their dependents unless--
  `(i) in the case of a multifamily property acquired or rebuilt by the
  Federal Government after the date of enactment of this section, the housing
  is protected, before occupancy by Federal employees or their dependents,
  by an automatic sprinkler system (or equivalent level of safety) and
  hard-wired smoke detectors; and
  `(ii) in the case of any other housing, the housing, before--
  `(I) occupancy by the first Federal employees (or their dependents) who
  do not occupy such housing as of such date of enactment; or
  `(II) the expiration of 3 years after such date of enactment,
whichever occurs first, is protected by hard-wired smoke detectors.
  `(B) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to supersede any guidelines
  or requirements applicable to housing for Federal employees that call for a
  higher level of fire safety protection than is required under this paragraph.
  `(2)(A)(i) Housing assistance may not be used in connection with any newly
  constructed multifamily property, unless  after the new construction the
  multifamily property is protected by an automatic sprinkler system and
  hard-wired smoke detectors.
  `(ii) For purposes of clause (i), the term `newly constructed multifamily
  property' means a multifamily property of 4 or more stories above ground
  level--
  `(I) that is newly constructed after the date of enactment of this
  section; and
  `(II) for which (a) housing assistance is used for such new construction, or
  (b) a binding commitment is made, before commencement of such construction,
  to provide housing assistance for the newly constructed property.
  `(iii) Clause (i) shall not apply to any multifamily property for which,
  before such date of enactment, a binding commitment is made to provide
  housing assistance for the new construction of the property or for the
  newly constructed property.
  `(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), housing assistance may not be
  used in connection with any rebuilt multifamily property, unless after the
  rebuilding the multifamily property complies with the chapter on existing
  apartment buildings of National Fire Protection Association Standard 101
  (known as the Life Safety Code), as in effect at the earlier of (I) the
  time of any approval by the Department of Housing and Urban Development of
  the specific plan or budget for rebuilding, or (II) the time that a binding
  commitment is made to provide housing assistance for the rebuilt property.
  `(ii) If any rebuilt multifamily property is subject to, and in compliance
  with, any provision of a State or local fire safety standard or code that
  prevents compliance with a specific provision of National Fire Protection
  Association Standard 101, the requirement under clause (i) shall not apply
  with respect to such specific provision.
  `(iii) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term `rebuilt multifamily
  property' means a multifamily property of 4 or more stories above ground
  level--
  `(I) that is rebuilt after the last day of the second fiscal year that
  ends after the date of enactment of this section; and
  `(II) for which (a) housing assistance is used for such rebuilding, or
  (b) a binding commitment is made, before commencement of such rebuilding,
  to provide housing assistance for the rebuilt property.
  `(C) After the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of
  enactment of this section, housing assistance may not be used in connection
  with any other dwelling unit, unless the unit is protected by a hard-wired
  or battery-operated smoke detector. For purposes of this subparagraph,
  housing assistance shall be considered to be used in connection with
  a particular dwelling unit only if such assistance is provided (i) for
  the particular unit, in the case of assistance provided on a unit-by-unit
  basis, or (ii) for the multifamily property in which the unit is located,
  in the case of assistance provided on a structure-by-structure basis.
  `(d) REGULATIONS- The Administrator of General Services, in cooperation
  with the United States Fire Administration, the National Institute of
  Standards and Technology, and the Department of Defense, within 2 years
  after the date of enactment of this section, shall promulgate regulations
  to further define the term `equivalent level of safety', and shall, to the
  extent practicable, base those regulations on nationally recognized codes.
  `(e) STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITY NOT LIMITED- Nothing in this section shall
  be construed to limit the power of any State or political subdivision
  thereof to implement or enforce any law, rule, regulation, or standard that
  establishes requirements concerning fire prevention and control. Nothing
  in this section shall be construed to reduce fire resistance requirements
  which otherwise would have been required.
  `(f) PREFIRE PLAN- The head of any Federal agency that owns, leases, or
  operates a building or housing unit with Federal funds shall invite the local
  agency or  voluntary organization having responsibility for fire protection
  in the jurisdiction where the building or housing unit is located to prepare,
  and biennially review, a prefire plan for the building or housing unit.
  `(g) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- (1) Within 3 years after the date of enactment
  of this section, and every 3 years thereafter, the Administrator of General
  Services shall transmit to Congress a report on the level of fire safety in
  Federal employee office buildings subject to fire safety requirements under
  this section. Such report shall contain a description of such buildings
  for each Federal agency.
  `(2) Within 10 years after the date of enactment of this  section, each
  Federal agency providing housing to Federal employees or housing assistance
  shall submit a report to Congress on the progress of that agency in
  implementing subsection (c) and on plans for continuing such implementation.
  `(3)(A) The National Institute of Standards and Technology shall conduct a
  study and submit a report to Congress on the use, in combination, of fire
  detection systems, fire suppression systems, and compartmentation. Such
  study shall--
  `(i) quantify performance and reliability for fire detection systems, fire
  suppression systems, and compartmentation, including a field assessment
  of performance and determination of conditions under which a reduction or
  elimination of 1 or more of those systems would result in an unacceptable
  risk of fire loss; and
  `(ii) include a comparative analysis and compartmentation using fire
  resistive materials and compartmentation using noncombustible materials.
  `(B) The National Institute of Standards and Technology shall obtain
  funding from non-Federal sources in an amount equal to 25 percent of the
  cost of the study required by subparagraph (A). Funding for the National
  Institute of Standards and Technology for carrying out such study shall
  be derived from amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated, for the
  Building and Fire Research Center at the National Institute of Standards and
  Technology, not to exceed $750,000. The study shall commence until receipt
  of all matching funds from non-Federal sources. The scope and extent of the
  study shall be determined by the level of project funding. The Institute
  shall submit a report to Congress on the study within 30 months after the
  date of enactment of this section.
  `(h) RELATION TO OTHER REQUIREMENTS- In the implementation of this section,
  the process for meeting space needs in urban areas shall continue to give
  first consideration to a centralized community business area and adjacent
  areas of similar character to the extent of any Federal requirement
  therefor.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsection (b) of section 31 of the Federal Fire
  Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as added by subsection (a) of this
  section, shall take effect 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE II--NATIONAL FALLEN FIREFIGHTERS FOUNDATION
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `National Fallen Firefighters Foundation Act'.
SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSES OF FOUNDATION.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established the National Fallen Firefighters
  Foundation (hereafter in this title referred to as the `Foundation'). The
  Foundation is a charitable and nonprofit corporation to be organized under
  the laws of the State of Maryland and is not an agency or establishment
  of the United States.
  (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of the Foundation are--
  (1) primarily to encourage, accept, and administer private gifts of
  property for the benefit of the National Fallen Firefighters' Memorial
  and the annual memorial service associated with it;
  (2) to provide financial assistance to families of fallen firefighters for
  transportation to and lodging at non-Federal facilities during the annual
  memorial service;
  (3) to assist State and local efforts to recognize firefighters who die
  in the line of duty; and
  (4) to provide scholarships and other financial assistance for educational
  purposes and job training for the spouses and children of fallen
  firefighters.
SEC 203. BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE FOUNDATION.
  (a) Establishment and Membership-
  (1) VOTING MEMBERS- The Foundation shall have a governing Board of Directors
  (hereafter in this title referred to as the `Board'), which shall consist
  of nine voting members, of whom--
  (A) one member shall be an active volunteer firefighter;
  (B) one member shall be an active career firefighter;
  (C) one member shall be a Federal firefighter; and
  (D) six members shall have a demonstrated interest in the fire service.
  (2) NONVOTING MEMBER- The Administrator of the United States Fire
  Administration of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (hereafter in
  this title referred to as the `Administrator') shall be an ex officio
  nonvoting member of the Board.
  (3) STATUS OF BOARD MEMBERS- Appointment to the Board shall not constitute
  employment by, or the holding of an office of, the United States for the
  purposes of any Federal law.
  (4) COMPENSATION--Members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
  (b) APPOINTMENT AND TERMS- Within 3 months after the date of enactment
  of this Act, the Administrator shall appoint the voting members of the
  Board. The voting members shall be appointed for terms of 6 years, except
  that the Administrator, in making the initial appointments to the Board,
  shall appoint--
  (1) three members to a term of 2 years;
  (2) three members to a term of 4 years; and
  (3) three members to a term of 6 years.
  (c) VACANCY- A vacancy on the Board shall be filled within 60 days in the
  manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (d) CHAIRMAN- The Chairman shall be elected by the Board from its voting
  members for a 2-year term.
  (e) QUORUM- A majority of the current membership of the Board shall
  constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
  (f) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman at least
  once a year. If a member of the Board misses three consecutive meetings,
  that individual may be removed from the Board and that vacancy filled in
  accordance with subsection (c).
  (g) General Powers-
  (1) ACTIONS BY THE BOARD- The Board may complete the organization of the
  Foundation by--
  (A) appointing no more than two officers or employees;
  (B) adopting a constitution and bylaws consistent with this title; and
  (C) undertaking other such acts as may be necessary to carry out this title.
  (2) LIMITATION- Officers and employees may not be appointed until the
  Foundation has sufficient funds to pay for their services.
  (h) Officers and Employees-
  (1) STATUS- Officers and employees of the Foundation shall not be considered
  Federal employees, shall be appointed without regard to title 5, United
  States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and may
  be paid without regard to chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of
  such title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates.
  (2) MAXIMUM SALARY- No officer or employee may receive pay in excess of
  the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level GS-15 of the General
  Schedule under section 5107 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 204. RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE FOUNDATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Foundation--
  (1) shall have perpetual succession;
  (2) may conduct business throughout the several States, territories,
  and possessions of the United States;
  (3) shall have its principal offices in the State of Maryland; and
  (4) shall at all times maintain a designated agent authorized to accept
  service of process for the Foundation.
  (b) SEAL- The Foundation shall have an official seal selected by the Board
  which shall be judicially noticed.
  (c) POWERS- To carry out its purposes under section 202, the Foundation
  shall have, in addition to the powers otherwise given it under this title,
  the usual powers of a corporation acting as a trustee in the State of
  Maryland, including the power--
  (1) to accept, receive, solicit, hold, administer, and use any gift,
  devise, or bequest, either absolutely or in trust, of real or personal
  property or any income therefrom or other interest therein;
  (2) to sue and be sued, and complain and defend itself in any court of
  competent jurisdiction, except that the members of the Board shall not be
  personally liable, except for gross negligence;
  (3) unless otherwise required by the instrument of transfer, to sell, donate,
  lease, invest, or otherwise dispose of any property or income therefrom;
  (4) to enter into contracts and other arrangements with public agencies
  and private organizations and persons and to make such payments as may be
  necessary to carry out its functions; and
  (5) to do any and all acts necessary and proper to carry out the purposes
  of the Foundation.
SEC. 205. ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES AND SUPPORT.
  The Administrator may provide personnel, facilities, and other administrative
  services to the Foundation and shall require and accept reimbursements
  for such personnel, facilities, and services that shall be deposited
  in the Treasury to the credit of the appropriations then current and
  chargeable for the cost of providing such services. Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, Federal personnel and stationery shall not be used
  to solicit funding for the Foundation.
SEC. 206. VOLUNTEER STATUS.
  The Administrator may accept, without regard to the Federal civil service
  classification laws, rules, or regulations, the services of the Foundation,
  the Board, and the officers and employees of the Board, without compensation
  from the United States Fire Administration, as volunteers in the performance
  of the functions authorized under this title.
SEC. 207. AUDITS, REPORT REQUIREMENTS, AND PETITION OF ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR
EQUITABLE RELIEF.
  (a) AUDITS- For purposes of the Act entitled `An Act to provide for audit of
  accounts of private corporations established under Federal law', approved
  August 30, 1964 (36 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.), the Foundation shall be treated
  as a private corporation established under Federal law.
  (b) REPORT- The Foundation shall, within 4 months after the end of each
  fiscal year, prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of the Congress
  a report of the Foundation's proceedings and activities during such year,
  including a full and complete statement of its receipts, expenditures,
  and investments.
  (c) RELIEF FOR CERTAIN FOUNDATION ACTS OR FAILURES TO ACT- If the
  Foundation--
  (1) engages in, or threatens to engage in, any act, practice, or policy
  that is inconsistent with the purposes set forth in section 202(b); or
  (2) refuses, fails, or neglects to discharge its obligations under this
  title, or threatens to do so,
the Attorney General may petition in the United States District Court for
the District of Columbia for such equitable relief as may be necessary
or appropriate.
SEC. 208. IMMUNITY OF THE UNITED STATES.
  The United States shall not be liable for any debts, defaults, acts, or
  omissions of the Foundation nor shall the full faith and credit of the
  United States extend to any obligation of the Foundation.
SEC. 209. WORKERS' FAMILY PROTECTION.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Workers' Family
  Protection Act'.
  (b) Findings and Purposes-
  (1) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  (A) hazardous chemicals and substances that can threaten the health and
  safety of workers are being transported out of industries on workers'
  clothing and persons;
  (B) these chemicals and substances have the potential to pose an additional
  threat to the health and welfare of workers and their families;
  (C) additional information is needed concerning issues related to employee
  transported contaminant releases; and
  (D) additional regulations may be needed to prevent future releases of
  this type.
  (2) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this section to--
  (A) increase understanding and awareness concerning the extent and possible
  health impacts of the problems and incidents described in paragraph (1);
  (B) prevent or mitigate future incidents of home contamination that could
  adversely affect the health and safety of workers and their families;
  (C) clarify regulatory authority for preventing and responding to such
  incidents; and
  (D) assist workers in redressing and responding to such incidents when
  they occur.
  (c) Evaluation of Employee Transported Contaminant Releases-
  (1) Study-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety
  and Health (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Director'),
  in cooperation with the Secretary of Labor, the Administrator of the
  Environmental Protection Agency, the Administrator of the Agency for Toxic
  Substances and Disease Registry, and the heads of other Federal Government
  agencies as determined to be appropriate by the Director, shall conduct
  a study to evaluate the potential for, the prevalence of, and the issues
  related to the contamination of workers' homes with hazardous chemicals and
  substances, including infectious agents, transported from the workplaces
  of such workers.
  (B) MATTERS TO BE EVALUATED- In conducting the study and evaluation under
  subparagraph (A), the Director shall--
  (i) conduct a review of past incidents of home contamination through the
  utilization of literature and of records concerning past investigations
  and enforcement actions undertaken by--
  (I) the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health;
  (II) the Secretary of Labor to enforce the Occupational Safety and Health
  Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.);
  (III) States to enforce occupational safety and health standards in
  accordance with section 18 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 667); and
  (IV) other government agencies (including the Department of Energy and
  the Environmental Protection Agency), as the Director may determine to
  be appropriate;
  (ii) evaluate current statutory, regulatory, and voluntary industrial
  hygiene or other measures used by small, medium and large employers to
  prevent or remediate home contamination;
  (iii) compile a summary of the existing research and case histories conducted
  on incidents of employee transported contaminant releases, including--
  (I) the effectiveness of workplace housekeeping practices and personal
  protective equipment in preventing such incidents;
  (II) the health effects, if any, of the resulting exposure on workers and
  their families;
  (III) the effectiveness of normal house cleaning and laundry procedures for
  removing hazardous materials and agents from workers' homes and personal
  clothing;
  (IV) indoor air quality, as the research concerning such pertains to the
  fate of chemicals transported from a workplace into the home environment; and
  (V) methods for differentiating exposure health effects and relative risks
  associated with specific agents from other sources of exposure inside and
  outside the home;
  (iv) identify the role of Federal and State agencies in responding to
  incidents of home contamination;
  (v) prepare and submit to the Task Force established under paragraph (2) and
  to the appropriate committees of Congress, a report concerning the results
  of the matters studied or evaluated under clauses (i) through (iv); and
  (vi) study home contamination incidents and issues and worker and family
  protection policies and practices related to the special circumstances
  of firefighters and prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of
  Congress a report concerning the findings with respect to such study.
  (2) Development of investigative strategy-
  (A) TASK FORCE- Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of
  this Act, the Director shall establish a working group, to be known as the
  `Workers' Family Protection Task Force'. The Task Force shall--
  (i) be composed of not more than 15 individuals to be appointed by the
  Director from among individuals who are representative of workers, industry,
  scientists, industrial hygienists, the National Research Council, and
  government agencies, except that not more than one such individual shall
  be from each appropriate government agency and the number of individuals
  appointed to represent industry and workers shall be equal in number;
  (ii) review the report submitted under paragraph (1)(B)(v);
  (iii) determine, with respect to such report, the additional data needs,
  if any, and the need for additional evaluation of the scientific issues
  related to and the feasibility of developing such additional data; and
  (iv) if additional data are determined by the Task Force to be needed,
  develop a recommended investigative strategy for use in obtaining such
  information.
  (B) Investigative Strategy-
  (i) CONTENT- The investigative strategy developed under subparagraph
  (A)(iv) shall identify data gaps that can and cannot be filled, assumptions
  and uncertainties associated with various components of such strategy,
  a timetable for the implementation of such strategy, and methodologies
  used to gather any required data.
  (ii) PEER REVIEW- The Director shall publish the proposed investigative
  strategy under subparagraph (A)(iv) for public comment and utilize other
  methods, including technical conferences or seminars, for the purpose of
  obtaining comments concerning the proposed strategy.
  (iii) FINAL STRATEGY- After the peer review and public comment is conducted
  under clause (ii), the Director, in consultation with the heads of other
  government agencies, shall propose a final strategy for investigating issues
  related to home contamination that shall be implemented by the National
  Institute for Occupational Safety and Health and other Federal agencies
  for the period of time necessary to enable such agencies to obtain the
  information identified under subparagraph (A)(iii).
  (C) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall be construed as precluding
  any government agency from investigating issues related to home contamination
  using existing procedures until such time as a final strategy is developed
  or from taking actions in addition to those proposed in the strategy after
  its completion.
  (3) IMPLEMENTATION OF INVESTIGATIVE STRATEGY- Upon completion of the
  investigative strategy under subparagraph (B)(iii), each Federal agency
  or department shall fulfill the role assigned to it by the strategy.
  (d) Regulations-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of
  this Act, and periodically thereafter, the Secretary of Labor, based on
  the information developed under subsection (c) and on other information
  available to the Secretary, shall--
  (A) determine if additional education about, emphasis on, or enforcement
  of existing regulations or standards is needed and will be sufficient, or
  if additional regulations or standards are needed with regard to employee
  transported releases of hazardous materials; and
  (B) prepare and submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report
  concerning the result of such determination.
  (2) ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS OR STANDARDS- If the Secretary of Labor determines
  that additional regulations or standards are needed under paragraph (1),
  the Secretary shall promulgate, pursuant to the Secretary's authority under
  the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (29 U.S.C. 651 et seq.),
  such regulations or standards as determined to be appropriate not later
  than 3 years after such determination.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  from sums otherwise authorized to be appropriated, for each fiscal year
  such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.