 
--H.R.4437--
H.R.4437
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize funds for the implementation of the settlement agreement reached
between the Pueblo de Cochiti and the United States Army Corps of Engineers
under the authority of Public Law 100-202.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GENERAL AUTHORIZATION.
 The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Army are authorized
 and directed to implement the settlement agreement negotiated under the
 authority of Public Law 100-202 by the Pueblo de Cochiti of New Mexico,
 a federally recognized Indian Tribe, and the United States  Army Corps of
 Engineers, as set forth in the report of the Corps of Engineers entitled
 `Report on Investigations, Wet Field Solution', dated July 24, 1990,
 addressing seepage problems at the Cochiti Dam on tribal lands.
SEC. 2. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
 In accordance with the settlement agreement and pursuant to the trust
 relationship between the United States Government and the Pueblo de Cochiti
 of New Mexico, upon completion of construction of the drainage system, the
 Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs,
 shall be responsible for its maintenance, repair, and replacement, as
 provided in the settlement agreement.
SEC. 3. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY.
 In accordance with the settlement agreement, the Secretary of the Army
 is authorized and directed to construct the underground drainage system
 necessary to correct the high ground water problem at the Pueblo de Cochiti
 and to carry out all other provisions of the settlement agreement, except
 those specifically assigned to the Secretary of the Interior under the
 provisions of this Act.
SEC. 4. APPROPRIATIONS AUTHORIZED.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry
 out the provisions of this Act, and the settlement agreement.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.