 
--H.R.5400--
 H.R.5400
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, to establish a program to provide
certain housing assistance to homeless veterans, to improve certain other
programs that provide such assistance, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Homeless Veterans Comprehensive Service
  Programs Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. PILOT PROGRAM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to the availability of appropriations provided
  for under section 12, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall establish
  and operate, through September 30, 1995, a pilot program under this Act to
  expand and improve the provision of benefits and services by the Department
  of Veterans Affairs to homeless veterans.
  (b) COMPREHENSIVE CENTERS- The pilot program shall include the establishment
  of no more than four demonstration programs (in addition to any existing
  programs providing similar services) at sites under the jurisdiction of
  the Secretary to be centers for the provision of comprehensive services to
  homeless veterans. The services to be provided at each site shall include
  a comprehensive and coordinated array of those specialized services which
  may be provided under existing law.
  (c) PLACEMENT OF VBA EMPLOYEES- The pilot program shall also include the
  services of such employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration as the
  Secretary determines appropriate at--
  (1) no more than 45 sites at which the Secretary provides services to
  homeless chronically mentally ill veterans pursuant to section 115 of
  Public Law 100-322 (38 U.S.C. 1712 note);
  (2) no more than 26 sites at which the Secretary furnishes domiciliary
  care to homeless veterans pursuant to section 801(b) of Public Law 100-628
  (102 Stat. 3257);
  (3) no more than 12 centers which provide readjustment counseling services
  under section 1712A of title 38, United States Code; and
  (4) each of the demonstration sites established under subsection (b).
SEC. 3. GRANTS.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO MAKE GRANTS- Subject to the availability of appropriations
  provided for under section 12, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, during
  fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995, shall make grants to assist eligible
  entities in establishing new programs to furnish outreach, rehabilitative
  services, vocational counseling and training, and transitional housing
  assistance to homeless veterans.
  (b) CRITERIA FOR AWARD OF GRANTS- The Secretary shall establish criteria
  and requirements for the award of a grant under this section, including
  criteria for entities eligible to receive such grants. The Secretary shall
  publish such criteria and requirements in the Federal Register not later
  than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. In developing such
  criteria and requirements, the Secretary shall consult with organizations
  with experience in the area of providing service to homeless veterans
  and to the maximum extent possible shall take into account the findings
  of the assessment of the Secretary under section 107 of the Veterans'
  Medical Programs Amendments of 1992. The criteria established under this
  section shall include the following:
  (1) Specification as to the kinds of projects for which such grant support
  is available, which shall include (A) expansion, remodeling, or alteration of
  existing buildings, or acquisition of facilities, for use as service centers,
  transitional housing, or other facilities to serve homeless veterans, and
  (B) procurement of vans for use in outreach to, and transportation for,
  homeless veterans to carry out the purposes set forth in subsection (a).
  (2) Specification as to the number of projects for which grant support
  is available, which shall include provision for no more than 25 service
  centers and no more than 20 programs which incorporate the procurement of
  vans as described in paragraph (1).
  (3) Appropriate criteria for the staffing for the provision of the services
  for which a grant under this section is furnished.
  (4) Provisions to ensure that the award of grants under this section (A)
  shall not result in duplication of ongoing services, and (B) to the maximum
  extent practicable, shall reflect appropriate geographic dispersion and
  an appropriate balance between urban and nonurban locations.
  (5) Provisions to ensure that an entity receiving a grant shall meet fire
  and safety requirements established by the Secretary, which shall include
  such State and community requirements that may apply, but fire and safety
  requirements applicable to buildings of the Federal Government shall not
  apply to real property to be used by a grantee in carrying out the grant.
  (6) Specifications as to the means by which an entity receiving a grant
  may contribute in-kind services to the start-up costs of any project for
  which support is sought and the methodology for assigning a cost to that
  contribution for purposes of subsection (c).
  (c) FUNDING LIMITATIONS- A grant under this section may not be used to
  support operational costs. The amount of a grant under this section may
  not exceed 65 percent of the estimated cost of the expansion, remodeling,
  alteration, acquisition, or procurement provided for under this section.
  (d) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES- The Secretary may not make a grant under this
  section unless the applicant for the grant--
  (1) is a public or nonprofit private entity with the capacity (as determined
  by the Secretary) to effectively administer a grant under this section;
  (2) has demonstrated that adequate financial support will be available to
  carry out the project for which the grant has been sought consistent with
  the plans, specifications, and schedule submitted by the applicant; and
  (3) has agreed to meet the applicable criteria and requirements established
  under subsection (b) (and the Secretary has determined that the applicant
  has demonstrated the capacity to meet those criteria and requirements).
  (e) APPLICATION REQUIREMENT- An entity described in subsection (d) desiring
  to receive assistance under this section shall submit to the Secretary an
  application. The application shall set forth--
  (1) the amount of the grant requested with respect to a project;
  (2) a description of the site for such project;
  (3) plans, specifications, and the schedule for implementation of such
  project in accordance with requirements prescribed by the Secretary under
  subsection (b); and
  (4) reasonable assurance that upon completion of the work for which
  assistance is sought, the program will become operational and the facilities
  will be used principally to provide to veterans the services for which the
  project was designed, and that not more than 25 percent of the services
  provided will serve clients who are not receiving such services as veterans.
  (f) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- The Secretary may not make a grant to an applicant
  under this section unless the applicant, in the application for the grant,
  agrees to each of the following requirements:
  (1) To provide the services for which the grant is furnished at locations
  accessible to homeless veterans.
  (2) To maintain referral networks for, and aid homeless veterans in,
  establishing eligibility for assistance, and obtaining services, under
  available entitlement and assistance programs.
  (3) To ensure the confidentiality of records maintained on homeless veterans
  receiving services under the grant.
  (4) To establish such procedures for fiscal control and fund accounting as
  may be necessary to ensure proper disbursement and accounting with respect
  to the grant and to such payments as may be made under section 4.
  (5) To seek to employ homeless veterans and formerly homeless veterans
  in positions created for purposes of the grant for which those veterans
  are qualified.
  (g) SERVICE CENTER REQUIREMENTS- In addition to criteria established under
  subsection (b), the Secretary shall, in the case of an application for a
  grant for a service center for homeless veterans, require that--
  (1) such center shall provide services to homeless veterans during such
  hours as the Secretary may specify and shall be open to such veterans on
  an as-needed, unscheduled basis;
  (2) space at such center will be made available, as mutually agreeable,
  for use by staff of the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department
  of Labor, and other appropriate agencies and organizations in assisting
  homeless veterans served by such center;
  (3) such center shall be equipped and staffed to provide, or to assist
  in providing, health care, mental health services, hygiene facilities,
  benefits and employment counseling, meals, transportation assistance,
  and such other services as the Secretary determines necessary; and
  (4) such center may be equipped and staffed to provide, or to assist
  in providing, job training and job placement services (including job
  readiness, job counseling, and literacy and skills training), as well as
  any outreach and case management services that may be necessary to carry
  out this paragraph.
SEC. 4. PER DIEM PAYMENTS.
  (a) PER DIEM PAYMENTS FOR FURNISHING SERVICES TO HOMELESS VETERANS-
  Subject to the availability of appropriations provided for under section
  12, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, pursuant to such criteria as the
  Secretary shall prescribe, shall provide to a recipient of a grant under
  section 3 (or an entity eligible to receive a grant under section 3 which
  after the date of enactment of this Act establishes a program which the
  Secretary determines carries out the purposes described in section 3) per
  diem payments at such rates as the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation
  for services furnished to any homeless veteran--
  (1) whom the Secretary has referred to the grant recipient (or entity
  eligible for such a grant); or
  (2) for whom the Secretary has authorized the provision of services.
In a case in which the Secretary has authorized the provision of services,
per diem payments may be paid retroactively for services provided not more
than 3 days before the authorization was provided.
  (b) LIMITATION- The amount of per diem payments made with respect to a
  veteran under this section may not exceed one-half of the cost to the
  grant recipient (or other eligible entity) of providing such service.
  (c) IN-KIND ASSISTANCE- In lieu of per diem payments under this section,
  the Secretary may, with the approval of the grant recipient, provide in-kind
  assistance (through the services of Department employees and the use of
  other Department resources) to a grant recipient (or entity eligible for
  such a grant) under section 3.
  (d) INSPECTIONS- The Secretary may inspect any facility of an entity
  eligible for payments under subsection (a) at such times as the Secretary
  considers necessary. No per diem payment may be made to an entity under
  this section unless the facilities of that entity meet such standards as
  the Secretary shall prescribe.
SEC. 5. OUTREACH SERVICES.
  Section 7722 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end thereof the following:
  `(e) In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall assign such employees
  of the Veterans Benefits Administration as the Secretary considers
  appropriate to conduct outreach programs and provide outreach services
  for homeless veterans. Such outreach services may include site visits
  through which homeless veterans can be identified and provided assistance
  in obtaining benefits and services that may be available to them.'.
SEC. 6. EXPANSION OF PROGRAMS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.
  Section 801 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments
  Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3257) is amended in subsection
  (c), by striking out `to homeless' and inserting in lieu thereof `with a
  primary emphasis on those homeless'.
SEC. 7. AUTHORITY TO LEASE CERTAIN PROPERTY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS FOR EXTENDED LEASE TERMS.
  (a)  AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding section 8122(a)(1) of title 38, United States
  Code, and subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may
  lease to a representative of the homeless for a term in excess of three
  years any real property at the West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs Medical
  Center for which an application of the representative for the use of the
  property has been approved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services
  under section 501(e) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act
  (42 U.S.C. 11411(e)). Any such lease shall be subject to the provisions
  of section 501(f) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11411(f)).
  (b) LIMITATION- The Secretary may not lease real property under subsection
  (a) for a term in excess of three years to a representative of the homeless
  unless the representative agrees to use the property only as a location
  for the provision of services to homeless veterans and the families of
  such veterans.
  (c) DEFINITION- In this section, the term `representative of the homeless'
  has the meaning given such term in section 501(h)(4) of the Stewart
  B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411(h)(4)).
SEC. 8. AUTHORITY TO MAKE PROPERTIES AVAILABLE FOR HOMELESS PURPOSES.
  (a) LEASE OR DONATION- Section 3735(a) of title 38, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by inserting `, lease, lease with an option to purchase, or donate'
  after `sell'; and
  (B) by inserting `or lease or donation' after `sale';
  (2) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting `, leased, or donated' after `sold';
  (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
  (4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraphs:
  `(4) The term of any lease under this subsection may not exceed three years.
  `(5) An approved entity that leases a property from the Secretary under
  this section shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes, utilities,
  liability insurance, and other maintenance charges or similar charges that
  apply to the property.'.
  (b) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY- Section 3735(b) of such title is amended by
  striking out `September 30, 1993' and inserting in lieu thereof `December
  31, 1995'.
SEC. 9. FINANCING OF PROPERTIES TO ASSIST HOMELESS VETERANS.
  (a) FINANCING- Section 3735 of title 38, United States Code (as amended
  by section 8), is further amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
  `(b)(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary may make loans to
  organizations described in paragraph (1)(A) of subsection (a) to finance
  the purchase of property by such organizations under such subsection.
  `(2) In making a loan under this subsection, the Secretary--
  `(A) shall establish credit standards to be used for this purpose;
  `(B) may, pursuant to section 3733(a)(6) of this title, provide that the
  loan will bear interest at a rate below the rate that prevails for similar
  loans in the market in which the loan is made; and
  `(C) may waive the collection of a fee under section 3729 of this title
  in any case in which the Secretary determines that such a waiver would
  be appropriate.'.
SEC. 10. ANNUAL REPORTS.
  Not later than May 1 of each of 1994, 1995, and 1996, the Secretary of
  Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
  Senate and House of Representatives a report on the implementation of this
  Act. Each such report shall, to the extent feasible, include information
  on (1) the number of veterans assisted, (2) the services provided, and (3)
  the Secretary's analysis of the operational and clinical effectiveness and
  cost-effectiveness of the programs established under, or with assistance
  provided by, this Act.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS' REINTEGRATION
PROJECTS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 738 of the Stewart B. McKinney
  Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11448) is amended by adding at the end
  the following new subsection:
  `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) There are authorized to be
  appropriated to carry out this section the following amounts:
  `(A) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  `(B) $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1994.
  `(C) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 1995.
  `(2) Funds obligated for any fiscal year to carry out this section may be
  expended in that fiscal year and the succeeding fiscal year.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 739 of the Stewart B. McKinney
  Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11449) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a)(3)--
  (i) by striking out `$17,000,000' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `$14,800,000'; and
  (ii) by striking out `1993,' and all that follows through `this subtitle'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `1993'; and
  (B) in subsection (b), by striking out `other than section 738 of this
  subtitle and for the program under section 738 of this subtitle'.
  (2) Section 741 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 11451) is amended by inserting
  `738 and' before `740'.
SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act (other than
  section 8) $48,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995. No
  funds may be used to carry out the provisions of sections 2, 3, and 4 of
  this Act unless expressly provided for in an appropriation law. Nothing
  in this Act shall be construed to diminish funds for, continuation of, or
  expansion of existing programs administered by the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs to serve veterans.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.