 
--H.R.3370--
H.R.3370
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to carry out a study and make
recommendations to the Congress regarding the feasibility of establishing
a Native American cultural center in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred
 to as the `Secretary') shall carry out a comprehensive study to--
 (1) determine the feasibility of establishing a cultural center in Oklahoma
 City, Oklahoma, for the purpose of showcasing the historical culture of the
 Native American heritage that is a significant part of Oklahoma's history; and
 (2) identify potential sites for such center in the Oklahoma City area.
 (b) FACTORS CONSIDERED- In identifying potential sites for the center under
 subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall consider--
 (1) the relevance of the site to the tribal history of the Native American
 tribes in Oklahoma; and
 (2) the suitability of the site for attracting the greatest number of
 visitors.
 (c) CONSULTATION- The study shall be conducted in consultation with the
 Indian tribes and organizations of Oklahoma and appropriate agencies of
 the State of Oklahoma.
SEC. 2. REPORT.
 Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report containing a detailed
 statement of the findings and conclusions of the study carried out under
 section 1. Such report shall include--
 (1) recommendations regarding the establishment of such a center; and
 (2) a site plan and preliminary design documents for each potential site
 identified by the study.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated not more than $200,000 for the
 purposes of carrying out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.