 
--H.R.427--
H.R.427
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To disclaim any interests of the United States in certain lands on San
Juan Island,
Washington, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 (1) The term `1921 Act' means the Act of August 23, 1921 (42 Stat. 173),
 whereby the United States granted to the State of Washington, for the use
 of the University of Washington for purposes of a biological station and
 general university research purposes, certain lands compromising a military
 reservation at San Juan Island, in San Juan County, Washington.
 (2) The term `encroached lands' means those portions of the lands granted to
 the State of Washington by the 1921 Act that are designated as `Encroached
 Lands' on a survey plat to be prepared by the Secretary of the Interior
 pursuant to section 2 of this Act.
 (3) The term `university' means the University of Washington.
 (4) The term `the Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (5) The term `occupants' means the parties who on January 3, 1991, were
 listed on the tax records of San Juan County, Washington, as the owners of
 the encroached lands, and their heirs and assigns.
SEC. 2. SURVEY PLAT.
 Within one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary,
 acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall complete a
 survey of the lands granted to the State by the 1921 Act, and shall prepare
 a survey plat detailing those portions of the land granted to the State
 that have been encroached upon: Provided, That not more than 50 per centum
 of the cost of such survey shall be paid by the Federal Government.
SEC. 3. EXEMPTION, DISCLAIMER, AND CONDITIONS.
 (a) Subject to the limitation in subsection (c), the provisions of the
 1921 Act relating to the right of the  United States to assume control
 of, hold, use, and occupy the lands granted to the State by the 1921 Act,
 the provisions of such Act providing for reversion of such lands to the
 United States, and section 2 of such Act as amended by this Act shall not
 apply to the encroached lands.
 (b) Subject to the limitations of subsection (c), the  United States hereby
 disclaims all right, title and interest in the encroached lands  and,
 effective one year after the survey plat is prepared pursuant to section 2,
 all right, title, and interest of the  United States  in such lands shall
 vest in the University.
 (c)(1) Subsections (a) and (b) of this section shall not take effect unless,
 within six months after the date of enactment of this Act the University
 and the State have entered into a binding agreement with the Secretary
 whereby the State and the University agree--
 (A) to accept the map referred to in section 2 as accurate and conclusive and
 that the University and the State  will not attempt to convey or otherwise
 transfer any portion of the encroached lands to any party or parties other
 than the occupants; and
 (B) to reimburse the Secretary for the administrative costs of implementing
 this Act plus half the costs of the survey required by section 2, and
 also to pay the Secretary, on behalf of the  United States, an amount
 equal to the total amounts that the State and the University receive as
 consideration for conveyance of some of all of the encroached lands to any
 of the occupants in excess of reasonable costs (including the survey and
 other costs required by this Act) incurred by the University and the State
 incident to such conveyance.
 (2) All amounts received by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection shall
 be retained by the Secretary and, subject to appropriations, shall be used
 for the management of public lands managed by the Bureau of Land Management
 and shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 4. AVAILABILITY OF SURVEY PLAT.
 The survey plat referred to in section 2 shall be available for public
 inspection in the offices of the Secretary and the State Director of the
 Bureau of Land Management for the State of Washington, and the Secretary
 shall transmit copies  thereof to the University and to the appropriate
 officials of the State and of San Juan County, Washington.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENT.
 The 1921 Act is hereby amended by the addition at the end thereof of the
 following new  section:
 `SEC. 2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, if any land,
 or portion thereof, granted or otherwise conveyed to the State of Washington
 is or shall become contaminated  with hazardous substances (as defined in
 the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
 (42 U.S.C. 9601)),  or if such land, or portion thereof, has been used
 for purposes that the Secretary of the Interior finds may result in the
 disposal, placement or release of any hazardous substance, such land shall
 not, under any circumstance, revert to the  United States.
 `(b) If lands granted or conveyed to the State by this Act shall be used
 for purposes that the Secretary of the Interior finds: (1) inconsistent
 with the purposes of this Act, and (2) which may result in the disposal,
 placement or release of any hazardous substance, the State shall be liable
 to pay to the Secretary of the Interior, on behalf of the  United States,
 the fair market value of the land, including the value of any improvement,
 thereon, as of the date of conversion of the land to the nonconforming
 purpose. All amounts received by the Secretary  of the  Interior pursuant
 to this subsection shall be retained by the Secretary of the Interior and
 used, subject to appropriations, for the management of public lands and
 shall remain available until expended.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.