 
--H.R.3576--
H.R.3576
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to reserve
assistance under the HOME Investment Partnerships Act for certain insular
areas.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. RESERVATION OF ASSISTANCE.
 Section 217(a) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
 (42 U.S.C. 12747(a)) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by inserting `and after reserving
 amounts for the insular areas under paragraph (3)' before the first comma; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3) INSULAR AREAS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- For each fiscal year, of any amount approved in an
 appropriations Act to carry out this title, the Secretary shall reserve
 for grants to the insular areas an amount that reflects--
 `(i) their share of the total population of eligible jurisdictions; and
 `(ii) any adjustments that the Secretary determines are reasonable in light of
 available data that are related to factors set forth in subsection (b)(1)(B).
 `(B) SPECIFIC CRITERIA- The Secretary shall provide for the distribution of
 amounts reserved under this paragraph among the insular areas in accordance
 with specific criteria to be set forth in a regulation promulgated by the
 Secretary after notice and public comment.
 `(C) TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS- For fiscal year 1992, the reservation for
 insular areas specified in subparagraph (A) shall be made from any funds
 which become available for reallocation in accordance with the provisions
 of section 216(6)(A).'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 104 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42
 U.S.C. 12704) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `Guam' and all that follows through
 `the Marshall Islands' and inserting `the insular areas'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(24) The term `insular areas' means Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
 the United States Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.'.
SEC. 3. EXTENSION OF TIME TO SUBMIT CDBG STATEMENT.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the City of Petersburg, Virginia
 is authorized to submit not later than 10 days following the enactment of this
 Act, and the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall consider and
 accept, the final statement of community development objectives and projected
 use of funds required by section 104(a)(1) of the Housing and Community
 Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(a)(1)) in connection with a grant
 to the City of Petersburg under title I of such Act for fiscal year 1991.
SEC. 4. LOW-INCOME HOUSING COVENANTS.
 Section 515(p)(4) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1485(p)(4)) is amended
 by adding at the end `The preceding sentence shall not be interpreted as
 authorizing the Secretary to--
 `(A) limit the ability of a housing credit agency to require an owner of
 housing, in order to receive a low-income housing tax credit, to enter into
 a restrictive covenant, in such form and for such period as the housing
 credit agency deems appropriate, to maintain the occupancy characteristics
 of the project as prescribed in section 42(h)(6) of the Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986; or
 `(B) deny or delay closing of financing under this section by reason of
 the existence, or occupancy terms, of any such restrictive covenant.'.
SEC. 5. FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION.
 Notwithstanding the time limit set forth in section 1363(c) of the National
 Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4104 (c) and (d)), St. Charles Parish,
 Louisiana, may file an appeal with the Director of the Federal Emergency
 Management Agency with respect to certain flood elevation determinations for
 the area in and near the Ormond Country Club Estates located in St. Charles
 Parish, Louisiana, not later than June 1, 1992.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.