 
--H.R.5428--
H.R.5428
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Making appropriations for military construction for the Department of Defense
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated,
 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
 fiscal year ending September 30, 1993, for military construction functions
 administered by the Department of Defense, and for other purposes, namely:
Military Construction, Army
  For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
  or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
  property for the Army as currently authorized by law, including personnel
  in the Army Corps of Engineers and other personal services necessary for
  the purposes of this appropriation, and for construction and operation
  of facilities in support of the functions of the Commander in Chief,
  $425,270,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That
  of this amount, not to exceed $110,000,000 shall be available for study,
  planning, design, architect and engineer services, as authorized by law,
  unless the Secretary of Defense determines that additional obligations are
  necessary for such purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations
  of both Houses of Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.
Military Construction, Navy
  For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary or
  permanent public works, naval installations, facilities, and real property
  for the Navy as currently authorized by law, including personnel in the
  Naval Facilities Engineering Command and other personal services necessary
  for the purposes of this appropriation, $368,887,000, to remain available
  until September 30, 1997: Provided, That of this amount, not to exceed
  $70,000,000 shall be available for study, planning, design, architect and
  engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense
  determines that additional obligations are necessary for such purposes
  and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress
  of his determination and the reasons therefor.
Military Construction, Air Force
  For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
  or permanent public works, military installations, facilities, and real
  property for the Air Force as currently authorized by law, $717,280,000, to
  remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That of this amount,
  not to exceed $92,000,000 shall be available for study, planning, design,
  architect and engineer services, as authorized by law, unless the Secretary
  of Defense determines that additional obligations are necessary for such
  purposes and notifies the Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of
  Congress of his determination and the reasons therefor.
Military Construction, Defense Agencies
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
  For acquisition, construction, installation, and equipment of temporary
  or permanent public works, installations, facilities, and real property
  for activities and agencies of the Department of Defense (other than the
  military departments), as currently authorized by law, $262,116,000, to
  remain available until September 30, 1997: Provided, That such amounts
  of this appropriation as may be determined by the Secretary of Defense
  may be transferred to such appropriations of the Department of Defense
  available for military construction as he may designate, to be merged with
  and to be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period,
  as the appropriation or fund to which transferred: Provided further,
  That of the amount appropriated, not to exceed $83,168,000 shall be
  available for study, planning, design, architect and engineer services,
  as authorized by law, unless the Secretary of Defense determines that
  additional obligations are necessary for such purposes and notifies the
  Committees on Appropriations of both Houses of Congress of his determination
  and the reasons therefor: Provided further, That the Secretary of Defense
  shall continue the construction of a composite medical replacement facility
  located at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada, as authorized in the Military
  Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (division
  B of Public Law 101-189) and the Military Construction Authorization Act
  for Fiscal Year 1991 (division B of Public Law 101-510) and as provided for
  in the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-148)
  and the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-519).
North Atlantic Treaty Organization Infrastructure
  For the United States share of the cost of North Atlantic Treaty Organization
  Infrastructure programs for the acquisition and construction of military
  facilities and installations (including international military headquarters)
  and for related expenses for the collective defense of the North Atlantic
  Treaty Area as authorized in military construction Acts and section 2806
  of title 10, United States Code, $60,000,000, to remain available until
  expended.
Military Construction, Army National Guard
  For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
  of facilities for the training and administration of the Army National
  Guard, and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title
  10, United States Code, and military construction authorization Acts,
  $209,639,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997.
Military Construction, Air National Guard
  For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
  facilities for the training and administration of the Air National Guard,
  and contributions therefor, as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
  States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $287,559,000,
  to remain available until September 30, 1997.
Military Construction, Army Reserve
  For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
  of facilities for the training and administration of the Army Reserve as
  authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
  construction authorization Acts, $42,150,000, to remain available until
  September 30, 1997.
Military Construction, Naval Reserve
  For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion of
  facilities for the training and administration of the reserve components of
  the Navy and Marine Corps as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United
  States Code, and military construction authorization Acts, $15,400,000,
  to remain available until September 30, 1997.
Military Construction, Air Force Reserve
  For construction, acquisition, expansion, rehabilitation, and conversion
  of facilities for the training and administration of the Air Force Reserve
  as authorized by chapter 133 of title 10, United States Code, and military
  construction authorization Acts, $29,900,000, to remain available until
  September 30, 1997.
Family Housing, Army
  For expenses of family housing for the Army for construction, including
  acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and alteration
  and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment, leasing, minor
  construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance premiums, as
  authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $160,122,000, to remain
  available until September 30, 1997; for Operation and maintenance, and
  for debt payment, $1,363,697,000; in all $1,523,819,000.
Family Housing, Navy and Marine Corps
  For expenses of family housing for the Navy and Marine Corps for
  construction, including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion,
  extension and alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt
  payment, leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and
  insurance premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction,
  $378,434,000, to remain available until September 30, 1997; for Operation
  and maintenance, and for debt payment, $661,246,000; in all $1,039,680,000.
Family Housing, Air Force
  For expenses of family housing for the Air Force for construction,
  including acquisition, replacement, addition, expansion, extension and
  alteration and for operation and maintenance, including debt payment,
  leasing, minor construction, principal and interest charges, and insurance
  premiums, as authorized by law, as follows: for Construction, $283,786,000,
  to remain available until September 30, 1997; for Operation and maintenance,
  and for debt payment, $927,941,000; in all $1,211,727,000.
Family Housing, Defense Agencies
  For expenses of family housing for the activities and agencies of the
  Department of Defense (other than the military departments) for operation
  and maintenance, leasing, and minor construction, as authorized by law,
  $28,400,000.
Homeowners Assistance Fund, Defense
  For use in the Homeowners Assistance Fund established pursuant to section
  1013(d) of the Demonstration Cities and Metropolitan Development Act of 1966
  (Public Law 89-754, as amended), $133,000,000.
Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part I
  For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account established
  by section 207(a)(1) of the Defense Authorization Amendments and Base
  Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526), $415,700,000, to remain
  available for obligation until September 30, 1995: Provided, That none of
  these funds may be obligated for base realignment and closure activities
  under Public Law 100-526 which would cause the Department's $1,800,000,000
  cost estimate for military construction and family housing related to the
  Base Realignment and Closure Program to be exceeded: Provided further,
  That not less than $134,600,000 of the funds appropriated herein shall be
  available solely for environmental restoration.
Base Realignment and Closure Account, Part II
  For deposit into the Department of Defense Base Closure Account 1990
  established by section 2906(a)(1) of the Department of Defense Authorization
  Act, 1991 (Public Law 101-510), $1,618,600,000, to remain available
  until expended: Provided, That not less than $308,900,000 of the funds
  appropriated herein shall be available solely for environmental restoration.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
  SEC. 101. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts shall be expended for payments under a
  cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for work, where cost estimates exceed
  $25,000, to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, without
  the specific approval in writing of the Secretary of Defense setting forth
  the reasons therefor.
  SEC. 102. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
  shall be available for hire of passenger motor vehicles.
  SEC. 103. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
  may be used for advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department of
  Transportation, for the construction of access roads as authorized by section
  210 of title 23, United States Code, when projects authorized therein are
  certified as important to the national defense by the Secretary of Defense.
  SEC. 104. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to begin
  construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which
  specific appropriations have not been made.
  SEC. 105. No part of the funds provided in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts shall be used for purchase of land or land easements in
  excess of 100 per centum of the value as determined by the Army Corps of
  Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except (a) where
  there is a determination of value by a Federal court, or (b) purchases
  negotiated by the Attorney General or his designee, or (c) where the
  estimated value is less than $25,000, or (d) as otherwise determined by
  the Secretary of Defense to be in the public interest.
  SEC. 106. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts shall be used to (1) acquire land, (2) provide for site
  preparation, or (3) install utilities for any family housing, except housing
  for which funds have been made available in annual Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts.
  SEC. 107. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts for minor construction may be used to transfer or
  relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without
  prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
  SEC. 108. No part of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts may be used for the procurement of steel for any
  construction project or activity for which American steel producers,
  fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete
  for such steel procurement.
  SEC. 109. None of the funds available to the Department of Defense for
  military construction or family housing during the current fiscal year
  may be used to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation.
  SEC. 110. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts may be used to initiate a new installation overseas
  without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations.
  SEC. 111. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts may be obligated for architect and engineer
  contracts estimated by the Government to exceed $500,000 for projects
  to be accomplished in Japan or in any NATO member country, unless such
  contracts are awarded to United States firms or United States firms in
  joint venture with host nation firms.
  SEC. 112. None of the funds appropriated in Military Construction
  Appropriations Acts for military construction in the United States
  territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll may be
  used to award any contract estimated by the Government to exceed $1,000,000
  to a foreign contractor: Provided, That this section shall not be applicable
  to contract awards for which the lowest responsive and responsible bid of
  a United States contractor exceeds the lowest responsive and responsible
  bid of a foreign contractor by greater than 20 per centum.
  SEC. 113. The Secretary of Defense is to inform the Committees on
  Appropriations and the Committees on Armed Services of the plans and scope
  of any proposed military exercise involving United States personnel thirty
  days prior to its occurring, if amounts expended for construction, either
  temporary or permanent, are anticipated to exceed $100,000.
(transfer of funds)
  SEC. 114. Unexpended balances in the Military Family Housing Management
  Account established pursuant to section 2831 of title 10, United States Code,
  as well as any additional amounts which would otherwise be transferred
  to the Military Family Housing Management Account, shall be transferred
  to the appropriations for Family Housing, as determined by the Secretary
  of Defense, based on the sources from which the funds were derived, and
  shall be available for the same purposes, and for the same time period,
  as the appropriation to which they have been transferred.
  SEC. 115. Not more than 20 per centum of the appropriations in Military
  Construction Appropriations Acts which are limited for obligation during
  the current fiscal year shall be obligated during the last two months of
  the fiscal year.
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
  SEC. 116. Funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction
  in prior years shall be available for construction authorized for each
  such military department by the authorizations enacted into law during
  the current session of Congress.
  SEC. 117. The Secretary of Defense is to provide the Committees on
  Appropriations of the Senate and the House of Representatives with an annual
  report by February 15, containing details of the specific actions proposed
  to be taken by the Department of Defense during the current fiscal year to
  encourage other member nations of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
  and Japan and Korea to assume a greater share of the common defense burden
  of such nations and the United States.
  SEC. 118. For military construction or family housing projects that are being
  completed with funds otherwise expired or lapsed for obligation, expired
  or lapsed funds may be used to pay the cost of associated supervision,
  inspection, overhead, engineering and design on those projects and on
  subsequent claims, if any.
  SEC. 119. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds appropriated
  to a military department or defense agency for the construction of military
  projects may be obligated for a military construction project or contract,
  or for any portion of such a project or contract, at any time before the
  end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year for which funds for
  such project were appropriated if the funds obligated for such project
  (1) are obligated from funds available for military construction projects,
  and (2) do not exceed the amount appropriated for such project, plus any
  amount by which the cost of such project is increased pursuant to law.
  SEC. 120. Of the funds appropriated in this Act for Operation and maintenance
  of Family Housing, no more than $14,000,000 may be obligated for contract
  cleaning of family housing units.
(transfer of funds)
  SEC. 121. During the five-year period after appropriations available to
  the Department of Defense for military construction and family housing
  operation and maintenance and construction have expired for obligation,
  upon a determination that such appropriations will not be necessary for
  the liquidation of obligations or for making authorized adjustments to such
  appropriations for obligations incurred during the period of availability
  of such appropriations, unobligated balances of such appropriations may
  be transferred into the appropriation `Foreign Currency Fluctuations,
  Construction, Defense' to be merged with and to be available for the
  same time period and for the same purposes as the appropriation to which
  transferred.
  SEC. 122. None of the funds appropriated in this Act, except those necessary
  to exercise construction management provisions under section 2807 of title
  10, United States Code, may be used for study, planning, design, or architect
  and engineer services related to the relocation of Yongsan Garrison, Korea.
  SEC. 123. Such sums as may be necessary for annual pay raises for programs
  funded by Military Construction Appropriations Acts shall be absorbed
  within the levels appropriated in each annual Military Construction
  Appropriations Act.
  SEC. 124. Defense access roads for Camp McCain, Mississippi, shall be
  considered as fully meeting the certification requirements specified in
  section 210 of title 23 of the United States Code.
  SEC. 125. (a) The environmental response task force established in section
  2923(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991
  (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1821) shall reconvene and shall, until the
  date (as determined by the Secretary of Defense) on which all base closure
  activities required under title II of the Defense Authorization Amendments
  and Base Closure and Realignment Act (Public Law 100-526; 102 Stat. 2627)
  are completed--
  (1) monitor the progress of relevant Federal and State agencies in
  implementing the recommendations of the task force contained in the report
  submitted under paragraph (1) of such section; and
  (2) annually submit to the Congress a report containing--
  (A) recommendations concerning ways to expedite and improve environmental
  response actions at military installations (or portions of installations)
  that are being closed or subject to closure under such title;
  (B) any additional recommendations that the task force considers appropriate;
  and
  (C) a summary of the progress made by relevant Federal and State agencies
  in implementing the recommendations of the task force.
  (b) The task force shall consist of--
  (1) the individuals (or their designees) described in section 2923(c)(2)
  of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public
  Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1821); and
  (2) a representative of the Urban Land Institute (or such representative's
  designee), appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and
  the Majority Leader of the Senate.
  SEC. 126. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used for the
  design, construction, operation or maintenance of new family housing units
  in the Republic of Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied
  tours after June 6, 1988.
  SEC. 127. None of the funds appropriated in this Act may be used to support
  the design or construction of any project to expand or rehabilitate the
  Pentagon reservation.
  This Act may be cited as the `Military Construction Appropriations Act,
  1993'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.