 
--H.R.5602--
 H.R.5602
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Granting the consent of the Congress to the Interstate Rail Passenger Network
Compact.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled, That the Congress consents to the
  Interstate Rail Passenger Network Compact, which was enacted by the State
  of Indiana on February 28, 1992, and by the State of Tennessee on April 14,
  1992. The compact is substantially as follows:
`INTERSTATE RAIL PASSENGER NETWORK COMPACT
  `SEC. 1. The interstate rail passenger network compact is ratified,
  enacted, and entered into by the State of Indiana with all other States
  joining the compact in the form substantially as this chapter.
  `SEC. 2. It is the policy of the States party to this compact to cooperate
  and share the administration and financial responsibilities concerning the
  operation of an interstate rail passenger network system connecting major
  cities in Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia, and Florida. The
  participating States agree that a rail passenger system would provide a
  beneficial service and would be enhanced if operated across State lines.
  `SEC. 3. (a) The States of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Tennessee, Georgia,
  and Florida (referred to in this chapter as `participating States') agree,
  upon adoption of this compact by the respective States, to jointly conduct
  and participate in a rail passenger network financial and economic impact
  study. The study must do the following:
  `(1) Carry forward research previously performed by the
  national railroad passenger corporation (Amtrak) (report
  issued December 1990) and the Evansville Amtrak task force
  (report issued November 1990) that evaluated the `western route'
  (Chicago-Evansville-Nashville-Chattanooga-Macon-Waycross-Jacksonville)
  for purposes of evaluating a representative service schedule, train running
  times, and associated costs.
  `(2) Include consideration of the following:
  `(A) The purchase of railroad equipment by a participating State and the
  lease of the railroad equipment to Amtrak.
  `(B) The recommendation that a member of the council serve on the Amtrak
  board of directors.
  `(C) The periodic review of projected passenger traffic estimates on the
  western route.
  `(D) Any other matter related to the financial and economic impact of a
  rail passenger network along the western route.
  `(b) Information and data collected during the study under subsection (a)
  that is requested by a participating State or a consulting firm representing
  a participating State or the compact may be made available to the State
  or firm. However, the information may not include matters not of public
  record or of a nature considered to be privileged and confidential unless
  the State providing the information agrees to waive the confidentiality.
  `SEC. 4. The participating States agree to do the following:
  `(1) Make available to each other and to a consulting firm representing a
  participating State or the compact assistance that is available, including
  personnel, equipment, office space, machinery, computers, engineering,
  and technical advice and services.
  `(2) Provide financial assistance for the implementation of the feasibility
  study that is available.
  `SEC. 5. The interstate rail passenger advisory council (referred to in
  this compact as the `council') is created. The membership of the council
  consists of three individuals from each participating State. The Governor,
  president of the Senate, and Speaker of the House of Representatives shall
  each appoint one member of the council.
  `SEC. 6. The council shall do the following:
  `(1) Meet within 30 days after ratification of this agreement by at least
  two participating States.
  `(2) Establish rules for the conduct of the council's business, including the
  payment of the reasonable and necessary travel expenses of council members.
  `(3) Coordinate all aspects of the rail passenger financial and economic
  impact study under section 3 of this chapter.
  `(4) Contract with persons, including institutions of higher education,
  for performance of any part of the study under section 3 of this chapter.
  `(5) Upon approval of the study, determine the proportionate share that
  each State will contribute toward the implementation and management of
  the proposed restoration of the interstate rail passenger system along
  the western route.
  `(6) Make recommendations to each participating State legislature concerning
  the results of the study required by this chapter.
  `SEC. 7. This compact becomes effective upon the adoption of the compact into
  law by at least two of the participating States. Thereafter, the compact
  becomes effective for another participating State upon the enactment of
  the compact by the State.
  `SEC. 8. This compact continues in force with respect to a participating
  State and remains binding upon the State until 6 months after the State
  has given notice to each other participating State of the repeal of this
  chapter. The withdrawal may not be construed to relieve a participating
  State from an obligation incurred before the end of the State's participation
  in the compact.
  `SEC. 9. (a) This compact shall be liberally construed to effectuate the
  compact's purposes.
  `(b) The provisions of this compact are severable. If--
  `(1) a phrase, clause, sentence, or provision of this compact is declared
  to be contrary to the constitution of a participating State or of the
  United States; or
  `(2) the applicability of this compact to a government, an agency, a person,
  or a circumstance is held invalid;
the validity of the remainder of this compact and the compact's applicability
to any government, agency, person, or circumstance is not affected.
  `(c) If this compact is held contrary to the constitution of a participating
  State, the compact remains in effect for the remaining participating States
  and in effect for the State affected for all severable matters.
  `SECTION 2. (a) There is appropriated from the State general fund to the
  interstate rail passenger advisory council created by IC 8-3-21, as added
  by this Act, four thousand dollars ($4,000) for the State fiscal year
  ending June 30, 1992, for its use in carrying out the purposes of IC 8-3-21.
  `(b) There is appropriated from the State general fund to the interstate
  rail passenger advisory council created by IC 8-3-21, as added by this Act,
  ten thousand dollars ($10,000) for each of the State fiscal years ending
  June 30, 1993, and June 30, 1994, for its use in carrying out the purposes
  of IC 8-3-21.
  `(c) This section expires July 1, 1994.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.