 
--H.R.180--
H.R.180
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, with respect to veterans education
and employment programs, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION.
 Section 2011(2)(B) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking
 out `1991' and inserting in lieu thereof `1994'.
SEC. 2. EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL COUNSELING.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 36 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
 adding at the end of subchapter II the following new section:
`Sec. 1797A. Educational and vocational counseling
 `(a) The Secretary shall make available to an individual described in
 subsection (b) of this section, upon such individual's request, counseling
 services, including such educational and vocational counseling and guidance,
 testing, and other assistance as the Secretary determines necessary to aid
 the individual in selecting--
 `(1) an educational or training objective and an educational institution
 or training establishment appropriate for the attainment of such objective; or
 `(2) an employment objective that would be likely to provide such individual
 with satisfactory employment opportunities in the light of the individual's
 personal circumstances.
 `(b) For the purposes of this section, the term `individual' means an
 individual who--
 `(1) is eligible for educational assistance under chapter 30, 31, or 32 of
 this title or chapter 106 or 107 of title 10;
 `(2) was discharged or released from active duty under conditions other
 than dishonorable if not more than one year has elapsed since the date of
 such last discharge or release from active duty; or
 `(3) is serving on active duty in any State with the Armed Forces and
 is within 180 days of the estimated date of such individual's discharge
 or release from active duty under conditions other than dishonorable,
 including those who are making a determination of whether to continue as
 members of the Armed Forces.
 `(c) In any case in which the Secretary has rated the individual as being
 incompetent, the counseling services described in subsection (a) of this
 section shall be required to be provided to the individual before the
 selection of a program of education or training.
 `(d) At such intervals as the Secretary determines necessary, the
 Secretary shall make available information concerning the need for general
 education and for trained personnel in the various crafts, trades, and
 professions. Facilities of other Federal agencies collecting such information
 shall be utilized to the extent the Secretary determines practicable.
 `(e) The Secretary shall take appropriate steps (including individual
 notification where feasible) to acquaint all individuals described in
 subsection (b) of this section with the availability and advantages of
 counseling services under this section.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Chapter 34 of such title is amended--
 (A) by striking out section 1663; and
 (B) in the table of sections of such chapter, by striking out
`1663. Educational and vocational counseling.'.
 (2) Sections 1434(a)(1) and 1641(a)(1) of such title are amended by striking
 out `1663,'.
 (3) Section 1797(a) of such title is amended by inserting `under section
 1797A of this title or to an individual' after `individual'.
 (4) The table of sections of chapter 36 of such title is amended by adding
 the following new item at the end of the items for subchapter II:
`1797A. Educational and vocational counseling.'.
SEC. 3. VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION.
 (a) REHABILITATION UNDER CHAPTER 31- Section 1502(1)(B) of title 38,
 United States Code, is amended by striking out `for a service-connected
 disability' and all that follows through `determines' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `or receiving outpatient medical care, services, or treatment
 for a service-connected disability pending discharge from the active
 military, naval, or air service, and the Secretary determines that (i)
 the hospital (or other medical facility) providing the hospitalization,
 care, services, or treatment either is doing so under contract or agreement
 with the Secretary concerned or is under the jurisdiction of the Secretary
 of Veterans Affairs or the Secretary concerned, and (ii) the person is
 suffering from a disability which'.
 (b) HANDLING FEES- (1) Section 1504(a)(7) of such title is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(A)' before `Vocational';
 (B) by redesignating clauses (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii);
 (C) by striking out `and licensing' and inserting in lieu thereof `handling
 charges, licensing'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) Payment for the services and assistance provided under subparagraph
 (A) of this paragraph shall be made from funds available for the payment
 of readjustment benefits.'.
 (2) The amendments made by this subsection shall apply only to payments
 made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (c) AMOUNT OF ALLOWANCE- Section 1508(c)(2) of such title is amended by
 inserting `, State, or local government' after `Federal'.
SEC. 4. EXTENSION OF THE PERIOD PRECEDING AUTOMATIC DISENROLLMENT UNDER
CHAPTER 32.
 Section 1632(b)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 before the comma `and at the end of one year thereafter has not filed a
 claim for utilizing such entitlement'.
SEC. 5. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1642 and paragraph (3) of section 1798(e) of title
 38, United States Code, are repealed.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 32 of such title
 is amended by striking out the item for section 1642.
SEC. 6. PROVISION FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS TO ELIMINATE AN OVERPAYMENT BY
PERFORMING WORK-STUDY SERVICES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1685 of title 38, United States Code, is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) Subject to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Secretary may,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law, enter into an agreement with
 an individual under this section, or a modification of such an agreement,
 whereby the individual agrees to perform services of the kind described
 in clauses (A) through (E) of subsection (a)(1) of this section and agrees
 that the Secretary shall, in lieu of paying the work-study allowance payable
 for such services, as provided in subsection (a) of this section, deduct
 the amount of the allowance from the amount which the individual has been
 determined to be indebted to the United States by virtue of such individual's
 participation in a benefits program under this chapter, chapter 30, 31, 32,
 35, or 36 (other than an education loan under subchapter III) of this title,
 or chapter 106 of title 10 (other than an indebtedness arising from a refund
 penalty imposed under section 2135 of such title).
 `(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the provisions
 of this section (other than those provisions which are determined by the
 Secretary to be inapplicable to an agreement under this subsection) shall
 apply to any agreement authorized under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 `(B) For the purposes of this subsection, the Secretary may--
 `(i) waive, in whole or in part, the limitations in subsection (a) of this
 section concerning the number of hours and periods during which services can
 be performed by the individual and the provisions of subsection (b) of this
 section requiring the individual's pursuit of a program of rehabilitation,
 education, or training;
 `(ii) in accordance with such terms and conditions as may be specified
 in the agreement under this subsection, waive or defer charging interest
 and administrative costs pursuant to section 3115 of this title on the
 indebtedness to be satisfied by performance of the agreement; and
 `(iii) notwithstanding the indebtedness offset provisions of section 3114 of
 this title, waive or defer until the termination of an agreement under this
 subsection the deduction of all or any portion of the amount of indebtedness
 covered by the agreement from future payments to the individual as described
 in section 3114 of this title.
 `(3)(A) Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (B) and (C) of this
 paragraph, an agreement authorized under this subsection shall terminate in
 accordance with the provisions of this section and the terms and conditions
 of the agreement which are consistent with this subsection.
 `(B) In no event shall an agreement under this subsection continue in force
 after the total amount of the individual's indebtedness described in paragraph
 (1) of this subsection has been recouped, waived, or otherwise liquidated.
 `(C) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this
 paragraph, if the Secretary finds that an individual was without fault
 and was allowed to perform services described in the agreement after its
 termination, the Secretary shall, as reasonable compensation therefor,
 pay the individual at the applicable hourly minimum wage rate for such
 services as the Secretary determines were satisfactorily performed.
 `(4) The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this
 subsection.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 1685(a)(2) of such
 title is amended by inserting `and subsection (e) of this section' after
 `subsection'.
 (2) Section 1685(b) of such title is amended by inserting before `utilize'
 in the first sentence `, subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of
 this section,'.
 (3) Section 3114(a) of such title is amended by inserting before the comma
 `and section 1685(e) of this title'.
 (4) Section 3115(a) of such title is amended by striking out `section 3102'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `sections 1685(e) and 3102'.
SEC. 7. EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR FLIGHT TRAINING.
 (a) POST-VIETNAM ERA VETERANS' EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE- Section 1641 of
 title 38, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b)(1) The Secretary may approve the pursuit of flight training (in addition
 to a course of flight training that may be approved under section 1673(b)
 of this title) by an individual entitled to basic educational assistance
 under this chapter if--
 `(A) such training is generally accepted as necessary for the attainment
 of a recognized vocational objective in the field of aviation;
 `(B) the individual possesses a valid pilot's license and meets the medical
 requirements necessary for a commercial pilot's license; and
 `(C) the flight school courses meet Federal Aviation Administration standards
 for such courses and are approved by the Federal Aviation Administration
 and the State approving agency.
 `(2) This subsection shall not apply to a course of flight training that
 commences on or after October 1, 1994.'.
 (b) BENEFIT AMOUNT AND ENTITLEMENT CHARGE- Section 1631 of such title
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting `subsection (f) of this section and'
 after `provided in'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) Subject to subsection (a)(1) of this section, each individual who
 is pursuing a program of education consisting exclusively of flight training
 approved as meeting the requirements of section 1641(b) of this title shall
 be paid educational assistance under this chapter in the amount equal to 60
 percent of the established charges for tuition and fees (other than tuition
 and fees charged for or attributable to solo flying hours) which similarly
 circumstanced nonveterans enrolled in the same flight course are required
 to pay.
 `(2) No payment may be paid under this chapter to an individual for any month
 during which such individual is pursuing a program of education consisting
 exclusively of flight training until the Secretary has received from that
 individual and the institution providing such training a certification of
 the flight training received by the individual during that month and the
 tuition and other fees charged for that training.
 `(3) The entitlement of an eligible veteran pursuing a program of education
 described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be charged at the rate
 of one month for each amount of educational assistance paid which is equal
 to the monthly benefit otherwise payable to such veteran (computed on the
 basis of the formula provided in subsection (a)(2) of this section).'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on April 1, 1991.
SEC. 8. COMMITTEE ON VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2010 of title 38, United States Code, is amended
 to read as follows:
-`Sec. 2010. Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment and Training
 `(a)(1) There is hereby established within the Department of Labor an
 advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee on Veterans
 Employment and Training.
 `(2) The advisory committee shall--
 `(A) assess the employment and training needs of veterans;
 `(B) determine the extent to which the programs and activities of the
 Department of Labor are meeting such needs; and
 `(C) carry out such other activities that are necessary to make the reports
 and recommendations referred to in subsection (f) of this section.
 `(b) The Secretary of Labor shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek
 the advice of the advisory committee with respect to the matters referred
 to in subsection (a)(2) of this section.
 `(c)(1) The Secretary of Labor shall, within 90 days after the date of
 the enactment of this section, appoint at least 12, but no more than 18,
 individuals to serve as members of the advisory committee consisting of--
 `(A) representatives nominated by veterans' organizations that are chartered
 by Federal law and have a national employment program; and
 `(B) not more than 6 individuals who are recognized authorities in the
 fields of business, employment, training, rehabilitation, or labor and who
 are not employees of the Department of Labor.
 `(2) A vacancy in the advisory committee shall be filled in the manner in
 which the original appointment was made.
 `(d) The following, or their representatives, shall be ex officio, nonvoting
 members of the advisory committee:
 `(1) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
 `(2) The Secretary of Defense.
 `(3) The Secretary of Health and Human Services.
 `(4) The Secretary of Education.
 `(5) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
 `(6) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans Employment and Training.
 `(7) The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training.
 `(8) The Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
 `(9) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
 `(10) The Postmaster General.
 `(11) The Director of the United States Employment Service.
 `(12) Representatives of--
 `(A) other Federal departments and agencies requesting a representative on
 the advisory committee; and
 `(B) nationally based organizations with a significant involvement in
 veterans employment and training programs, as determined necessary and
 appropriate by the Secretary of Labor.
 `(e)(1) The advisory committee shall meet at least quarterly.
 `(2) The Secretary of Labor shall appoint the chairman of the advisory
 committee who shall serve in that position for no more than 2 consecutive
 years.
 `(3)(A) Members of the advisory committee shall serve without compensation.
 `(B) Members of the advisory committee shall be allowed reasonable and
 necessary travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence,
 at rates authorized for persons serving intermittently in the Government
 service in accordance with the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 57 of
 title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places
 of business in the performance of the responsibilities of the Board.
 `(4) The Secretary of Labor shall provide staff and administrative support to
 the advisory committee through the Veterans Employment and Training Service.
 `(f)(1) Not later than July 1 of each year, the advisory committee shall
 submit to the Secretary of Labor a report on the employment and training
 needs of veterans. Each such report shall contain--
 `(A) an assessment of the employment and training needs of veterans;
 `(B) an evaluation of the extent to which the programs and activities of
 the Department of Labor are meeting such needs; and
 `(C) any recommendations for legislation, administrative action, and other
 action that the advisory committee considers appropriate.
 `(2) In addition to the annual reports made under paragraph (1), the advisory
 committee may make recommendations to the Secretary of Labor with respect
 to the employment and training needs of veterans at such times and in such
 manner as the advisory committee determines appropriate.
 `(g) Within 60 days after receiving each annual report referred to in
 subsection (f)(1), the Secretary of Labor shall transmit to Congress a
 copy of the report together with any comments concerning the report that
 the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(h) The advisory committee shall continue until terminated by law.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 41 of such title
 is amended by striking out the item for section 2010 and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following:
`2010. Advisory Committee on Veterans Employment and Training.'.
SEC. 9. VETERANS READJUSTMENT APPOINTMENTS.
 (a) POLICY- Section 2014(a)(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) by striking out `It is the policy of the United States' and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following: `The United States has an obligation to
 assist veterans of the Armed Forces in readjusting to civilian life since
 veterans, by virtue of their military service, have lost opportunities to
 pursue education and training oriented toward civilian careers. The Federal
 Government is also continuously concerned with building an effective work
 force, and veterans constitute a major recruiting source. It is, therefore,
 the policy of the United States'; and
 (2) by striking out `certain veterans of the Vietnam era' and all that
 follows through the period and inserting in lieu thereof `disabled veterans
 and certain veterans of the Vietnam era and of the post-Vietnam era who
 are qualified for such employment and advancement.'.
 (b) IMPLEMENTATION- (1) Section 2014(b)(1) of such title is amended--
 (A) in clause (A), by striking out `up to' and all that follows through
 the semicolon and inserting in lieu thereof `up to and including the level
 GS-11 or its equivalent;';
 (B) by striking out clauses (B) and (C) and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following:
 `(B) a veteran shall be eligible for such an appointment without regard to
 the number of years of education completed by such veteran;
 `(C) a veteran who is entitled to disability compensation under the laws
 administered by the Department of Veterans Affairs or whose discharge
 or release from active duty was for a disability incurred or aggravated
 in line of duty shall be given a preference for such an appointment over
 other veterans;
 `(D) a veteran receiving such an appointment shall--
 `(i) in the case of a veteran with less than 15 years of education, receive
 training or education; and
 `(ii) upon successful completion of the prescribed probationary period,
 acquire a competitive status; and';
 (C) by striking out clauses (E) and (F); and
 (D) by redesignating clause (D) as clause (E) and by striking out `; and'
 at the end of such clause and inserting in lieu thereof a period.
 (2) Section 2014(b) of such title is amended by striking out subparagraph
 (B) of paragraph (2) and all that follows through paragraph (4) and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
 `(B) veterans who first became a member of the Armed Forces or first
 entered on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces after May 7, 1975,
 and were discharged or released from active duty under conditions other
 than dishonorable.
 `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, a veteran
 of the Vietnam era may receive an appointment under this section only during
 the period ending--
 `(i) 10 years after the date of the veteran's last discharge or release
 from active duty; or
 `(ii) December 31, 1993,
whichever is later.
 `(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, a veteran
 described in paragraph (2)(B) of this subsection may receive such an
 appointment only within the 10-year period following the later of--
 `(i) the date of the veteran's last discharge or release from active duty; or
 `(ii) December 18, 1989.
 `(C) The limitations of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph shall
 not apply to a veteran who has a service-connected disability rated at 30
 percent or more.
 `(D) For purposes of clause (i) of subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this
 paragraph, the last discharge or release from active duty shall not
 include any discharge or release from active duty of less than ninety
 days of continuous service unless the individual involved is discharged or
 released for a service-connected disability, for a medical condition which
 preexisted such service and which the Secretary determines is not service
 connected, for hardship, or as a result of a reduction in force described in
 section 1411(a)(1)(A)(ii)(III) of this title or of an involuntary separation
 described in section 1418A(a)(1).'.
 (c) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) The title heading for chapter 42 of such title
 is amended by striking out `DISABLED AND VIETNAM ERA'.
 (2) The item for such chapter in the table of chapters is amended by striking
 out `Disabled and Vietnam Era'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this Act shall apply only to
 appointments made after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 10. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TITLE 38 TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Title 38, United States Code, is amended
 as follows:
 (1) Section 1411(a)(3) is amended--
 (A) by redesignating clause (C) as clause (D); and
 (B) by striking out clauses (A) and (B) and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following:
 `(A) continues on active duty;
 `(B) is discharged from active duty with an honorable discharge;
 `(C) is released after service on active duty characterized by the
 Secretary concerned as honorable service and is placed on the retired list,
 is transferred to the Fleet Reserve or Fleet Marine Corps Reserve, or is
 placed on the temporary disability retired list; or'.
 (2) Section 1418(b)(4) is amended--
 (A) by striking out the comma after `service' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `(i)'; and
 (B) by inserting `, or (ii) has successfully completed the equivalent of
 12 semester hours in a program of education leading to a standard college
 degree' before the semicolon.
 (3) Section 1432(f)(3) is amended by striking out `or (c)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `(c), or (d)(1)'.
 (4) Section 1433(b) is amended by striking out `section 902 of the Department
 of Defense Authorization Act, 1981 (10 U.S.C. 2141 note),' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `chapter 109 of title 10'.
 (5) Section 1685(a)(1) is amended--
 (A) by redesignating clauses (1) through (5) as clauses (A) through (E),
 respectively; and
 (B) in clause (E), as so redesignated, by inserting `, Coast Guard, or
 National Guard' after `Department of Defense'.
 (6) Sections 1732(c)(3), 1732(e), and 1733(a)(1) are amended by striking out
 `Secretary of Veterans Affairs' and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary'.
 (7) Section 1774(a)(1)(A) is amended by striking out `chapters 106 and 107'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `chapter 106'.
 (8) Section 2004 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `assignment' each place it appears
 in the material preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting in lieu thereof
 `appointment';
 (B) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking out `assignment' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `appointment';
 (C) in subsection (a)(4), by striking out `assigning' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `appointment'; and
 (D) by striking out subsection (d).
 (9) Section 3013(a) is amended by inserting `or chapter 106 of title 10'
 after `of this title'.
 (b) TITLE 10 TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 2136(b) of title 10, United States
 Code, is amended by striking out `1434(b),', `1663,', and `1780(g),'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.