 
--H.R.1476--
H.R.1476
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide for the divestiture of certain properties of the San Carlos Indian
Irrigation Project in the State of Arizona, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `San Carlos Indian Irrigation Project Divestiture
 Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
 (1) To provide water for irrigating, first, land allotted to Pima Indians
 on the Gila River Reservation and, second, other lands in public or private
 ownership which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, could
 be served without diminishing the supply necessary for the Indian lands,
 Congress, by the Act of June 7, 1924, authorized construction of Coolidge
 Dam and creation of San Carlos Reservoir on the Gila River in Arizona.
 (2) The Secretary, through the San Carlos Irrigation Project administered
 by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, operates Coolidge Dam and approximately
 one hundred irrigation wells to provide water to SCIP lands on the Gila
 River Reservation and to the SCIP lands outside the reservation which is
 within the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District.
 (3) A hydroelectric power system was developed at Coolidge Dam pursuant
 to the Act of March 7, 1928, as amended, to generate power incidental to
 the use of San Carlos Reservoir for storing irrigation water. The system's
 primary purpose was to provide power for irrigation pumping on SCIP lands
 and for BIA agency and school purposes and for irrigation pumping by Apache
 Indians on the San Carlos Reservation.
 (4) SCIP's transmission and distribution system, which has been extended to
 domestic and commercial users on SCIP lands and to other homes and businesses
 not on SCIP lands, currently provides service within portions of Pinal, Pima,
 Maricopa, Graham, and Gila Counties covering approximately 3,000 square miles.
 (5) Unexpectedly low and erratic Gila River flows into San Carlos Reservoir
 since 1928 have limited power generation at Coolidge Dam, causing SCIP
 to secure additional power through contracts with the Western Area Power
 Administration, the Salt River Project, and Arizona Public Service Company
 to meet its customers' needs. Since October 1983, when a flood damaged the
 switchyard at Coolidge Dam, no power has been generated at the dam.
 (6) Much of SCIP's power system needs modernization, with some facilities
 over sixty years old, well past their design life. However, Federal budgetary
 and administrative policies have impaired long-range, consistent planning
 and construction necessary for efficient SCIP operation and maintenance
 and for timely replacement of obsolete or worn out facilities.
 (7) Under current repayment terms, the shared obligation of the San Carlos
 Irrigation and Drainage District and the Gila River Indian Community to
 repay the United States for construction of SCIP's hydroelectric power system
 and certain improvements thereto will not be met until after the year 2010.
 (8) The Gila River Indian Community, the San Carlos Apache Indian Tribe,
 and the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District have petitioned
 the Congress to authorize the Secretary to divest the United States of
 ownership and responsibility for SCIP's electric power transmission and
 distribution systems, to settle the outstanding debt owned by the United
 States in connection with the construction of those systems, to apportion
 equitably among them SCIP's allocation of Federal power resources, and to
 take such other actions as necessary to carry out divestiture.
 (9) On September 15, 1989, the Gila River Indian Community and the Arizona
 Public Service Company, and the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District,
 the Arizona Public Service Company, Trico Electric Cooperative, Inc., and
 Electrical District No. 2 of Pinal County, Arizona, signed Statements of
 Principles by which divestiture would be implemented between and among them
 subsequent to enactment of Federal enabling authorities as provided in this
 Act. The same entities subsequently signed extensions of the Statements of
 Principles, as amended.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to authorize the Secretary to divest the United States of ownership
 of the electric transmission and distribution system of the San Carlos
 Irrigation Project;
 (2) to provide for the settlement of the debt obligations owed to the United
 States by the Gila River Indian Community and the San Carlos Irrigation
 and Drainage District in connection with the construction of the electric
 transmission and distribution system;
 (3) to provide for the reallocation of power resources currently allocated
 to SCIP from Federal hydroelectric power sources;
 (4) to provide funds for the disposal of hazardous waste materials associated
 with those areas and components of the SCIP electric system transferred to
 the Gila River Indian Community and the San Carlos Apache Tribe and with
 those areas and components retained by the Secretary;
 (5) to facilitate the implementation of divestiture in an orderly and
 economic manner, consistent with the desire and intent of the parties to the
 Statements of Principles and with due regard for the rights and interests
 of current SCIP employees; and
 (6) to assist the Gila River Indian Community and the San Carlos Apache
 Tribe in their efforts to achieve greater self-determination and economic
 self-sufficiency.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `Arizona Public Service Company' means an electric utility
 corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Arizona;
 (2) the term `Arizona Corporation Commission' means the entity established
 by Article 15 of the Arizona Constitution to regulate and supervise public
 service corporations in the State of Arizona;
 (3) the term `Arizona Power Authority' means the entity established under
 Arizona law to receive and market Arizona's allotted share of power generated
 at Hoover Dam;
 (4) the terms `Electrical District No. 2' and `ED2' mean Electrical District
 Number 2, an electrical district organized under the laws of the State
 of Arizona;
 (5) the terms `Gila River Indian Community' and `GRIC' mean the governing
 body of that community of Pima and Maricopa Indians organized pursuant to
 section 16 of the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 476) and occupying the
 Gila River Reservation in Arizona;
 (6) the term `preference power' means electric power provided to
 municipalities, other public corporations or agencies, cooperatives,
 and nonprofit organizations pursuant to the Act of June 17, 1902 (32
 Stat. 388), and amendments and supplements thereto, commonly referred to
 as Reclamation Law;
 (7) the term `present value' means the economic value of a present cash
 payment utilizing the discount rates and methodology established by the
 Secretary pursuant to section 5301 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation
 Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-203; 101 Stat. 1330-268);
 (8) the terms `San Carlos Apache Tribe' and `SCAT' mean the governing body
 of that tribe of Indians organized pursuant to section 16 of the Act of June
 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 476) and occupying the San Carlos Reservation in Arizona;
 (9) the terms `San Carlos Irrigation Project' and `SCIP' mean the project
 authorized pursuant to the Act of June 7, 1924 (43 Stat. 475), expanded
 pursuant to the Act of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 200, 210), and administered
 by the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
 (10) the terms `San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage District' and `SCIDD'
 mean an irrigation and drainage district organized under the laws of Arizona;
 (11) the term `SCIP electric system' means all electric transmission and
 distribution facilities, including existing associated easements, owned
 by the United States on behalf of SCIP and administered by SCIP's Power
 Division, except Coolidge Dam, the electric generating facilities within the
 dam's powerhouse, the lines connecting the powerhouse with the switchyard,
 together with such switchyard located on land withdrawn for Coolidge Dam;
 (12) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior;
 (13) the term `Statements of Principles' means the document entered into by
 the Arizona Public Service Company, the San Carlos Irrigation and Drainage
 District, Trico Electric Cooperative, Inc., and Electrical District No. 2
 on September 15, 1989, as amended and extended on January 14, 1991, and the
 document entered into by the Arizona Public Service Company and the Gila
 River Indian Community Utility Authority on September 15, 1989, as amended
 and extended on March 8, 1991, setting forth agreements among the respective
 parties concerning divestiture of SCIP assets both on and off reservation; and
 (14) the terms `Trico Electrical Cooperative' and `TRICO' mean the Trico
 Electrical Cooperative, a corporation organized under the laws of the State
 of Arizona.
SEC. 4. DIVESTITURE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the Act of September 22, 1961 (25 U.S.C. 15),
 the Secretary is directed to transfer the SCIP electric system and associated
 assets in accordance with the provisions of this Act no later than December
 31, 1992.
 (b) TRANSFER TO GRIC- The Secretary shall transfer to the GRIC all right,
 title, and interest of the United States in and to that portion of the
 SCIP electric system located on the Gila River Reservation, including the
 5.6-mile section of 69-KV transmission line from Coolidge Substation to
 the reservation.
 (c) TRANSFER TO SCAT- The Secretary shall transfer to SCAT all right, title,
 and interest of the United States in and to that portion of the SCIP electric
 system located on the San Carlos Apache Reservation.
 (d) TRANSFER TO SCIDD- Subject to the requirements of section 5(d), the
 Secretary shall transfer, as is, to SCIDD all right, title, and interest of
 the United States in and to those portions of the SCIP electric system not
 transferred under subsection (b) or (c) or otherwise transferred or reserved
 under subsection (a), (e) or (f), expressly disclaiming all warranties,
 expressed or implied, including the implied warranties of merchantability
 and fitness for a particular purpose.
 (e) TRANSFER OF ASSOCIATED ASSETS- The Secretary shall negotiate an
 agreement with GRIC, SCAT, and SCIDD providing for the transfer to GRIC,
 SCAT, and SCIDD of all right, title, and interest of the United States in
 and to all associated assets of the SCIP electric system not transferred
 under subsections 4(b), 4(c), and 4(d) of this section, including but not
 limited to vehicles, tools, hardware, spare parts, poles, transformers,
 meters, conductors, and other electric system components. The Secretary
 shall distribute these assets in a manner that reflects the proportionate
 number of miles of distribution lines to be transferred to GRIC, SCAT, and
 SCIDD (including lines provided to SCAT under sections 5(a)(2) and 5(a)(3)
 of this Act) and retained in accordance with the implementation of the
 Statements of Principles.
 (f) RETENTION OF FACILITIES BY THE UNITED STATES- The Secretary shall retain
 ownership of the electric generating facilities located in the powerhouse
 and switchyard at Coolidge Dam, including lines from the powerhouse to
 the switchyard.
 (g) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE- Upon completion of the transfer of the SCIP
 electric system and associated assets as provided in this Act, the Secretary
 shall have no responsibility for the operation, maintenance, and repair of
 such system and associated assets, or for the electric generating facilities
 within the Coolidge Dam powerhouse.
SEC. 5. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall allocate all funds credited to the SCIP
 Power Division as of September 30, 1991, as adjusted for activity between
 September 30, 1991, and the effective date of this Act, including cash and
 temporary investments managed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs, customer
 deposits and customer advances held by the Treasury of the United States,
 reservations for line extensions and installation services, reservations
 for replacement, funds obligated for future power purchases, unreserved
 and unrestricted funds, trade and other accounts receivable, and accrued
 interest income, as follows:
 (1) To GRIC, SCAT, and SCIDD, all customer deposits and all customer advances
 held by the Treasury of the United States, in amounts corresponding to the
 actual deposits and advances made by the customers who shall be located
 within the respective areas to be served by GRIC, SCAT, and SCIDD as of
 the effective date of this Act, together with such information necessary
 to enable GRIC, SCAT, and SCIDD to credit such deposits and advances to
 the appropriate customer accounts.
 (2) To SCAT, such sums as may be necessary (not to exceed $1,200,000) to
 be used for construction of a 21KV transmission line from Peridot, Arizona,
 to the community of Bylas on the San Carlos Apache Reservation.
 (3) To SCAT, such sums as may be necessary (not to exceed $160,000) to
 be used to purchase all right, title, and interest in the electric system
 presently owned by the Arizona Public Service Company within the exterior
 boundaries of the San Carlos Apache Reservation and extending from the
 western boundary of said reservation easterly to the town of Cutter, Arizona.
 (4) To a SCIP employee severance fund, to be established by the Secretary,
 not to exceed $750,000, solely for the purpose of providing severance pay to
 SCIP Power Division employees eligible for such pay under applicable Federal
 law and regulations, except that within 180 days after the effective date
 of this Act, any funds remaining in the severance fund shall be transferred
 to GRIC.
 (5) To a SCIP reserve account, to be established and administered by the
 Secretary, $4,000,000, to be retained by the Secretary until October 1, 1995,
 at which time the Secretary shall, first, deposit into the Environmental
 Protection Account established pursuant to section 6 an amount equal to
 the present value of the SCIP electrical system debt obligation owed by
 GRIC and its allotted landowners as of September 30, 1991, and second,
 transfer the balance remaining in the account to GRIC. Prior to October 1,
 1995, the Secretary may, in his discretion and pursuant to his authorities
 under Public Law 93-638 (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), make available to GRIC and
 SCAT the funds not retained for deposit into the Environmental Protection
 Account for use in electric system expansion and rehabilitation on their
 respective reservations and for expenses associated with providing electric
 service on such reservations.
 (6) To GRIC, any funds remaining after the allocations set forth in the
 preceding paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) to be used for electric
 system expansion and rehabilitation on the Gila River Reservation and
 for expenses associated with providing electric utility services on such
 reservation.
 (b) ACCOUNTING PENDING DIVESTITURE- From the date of enactment of this Act
 through the date of allocation of funds as provided in this section and
 section 10, the Secretary shall ensure that no cash, temporary investments,
 or other funds are transferred from the SCIP Power Division to the SCIP
 Irrigation Division or to other Bureau of Indian Affairs managed projects,
 accounts, funds, or activities, and no Power Division funds shall be
 reserved or obligated for other than routine repairs and maintenance of
 the SCIP Power Division utility plant and for operation of the Power Division.
 (c) GRIC DEBT RESOLUTION- Deposit into the Environmental Protection Account of
 the amount specified in subsection (a)(5) shall constitute full satisfaction
 of the SCIP electric system debt owed by GRIC or its allotted landowners
 and shall be cause for the Secretary to cancel any liens against allotted
 lands of any member of GRIC or against tribal lands within SCIP in connection
 with such debt.
 (d) SCIDD DEBT RESOLUTION; AGREEMENT- As a condition precedent to the
 transfer of the SCIP system and other assets as provided in section 4(d),
 the SCIDD shall enter into an agreement with the Secretary. Such agreement
 shall provide that--
 (1) SCIDD will pay the Secretary an amount equal to the present value of the
 SCIP electric system debt obligation owed by SCIDD to the United States as
 of September 1, 1991, such amount to be paid from the proceeds of SCIDD's
 sale to the Arizona Public Service Company of various system assets as
 prescribed by the Statement of Principles entered into by SCIDD;
 (2) the total amount to be paid by SCIDD under the agreement shall be paid
 to the Secretary in annual installments of not less than $479,000 for the
 fiscal years beginning with the fiscal year in which this Act takes effect
 (as provided in section 10) and ending with fiscal year 1995;
 (3) SCIDD disclaims any right, title, or interest in SCIP Power Division
 funds to be allocated pursuant to subsection (a), except for such funds as
 may be credited to SCIDD pursuant to subsection (a)(1); and
 (4) payment by SCIDD to the Secretary of the present value amount specified
 in paragraph (1) shall constitute full satisfaction of the SCIP electric
 system debt owed by SCIDD.
 (e) DEPOSIT INTO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACCOUNT- The Secretary shall
 deposit the funds paid by SCIDD pursuant to subsection (d)(1) into the
 Environmental Protection Account established under section 6.
 (f) SCAT DEBT RESOLUTION- The Secretary shall waive any debt for electrical
 service (not to exceed $165,000) which SCIP claims is owed by the San Carlos
 Apache Tribal Utility Authority or SCAT as of September 1, 1991.
SEC. 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACCOUNT.
 The Secretary shall establish an account, to be administered by the Bureau
 of Indian Affairs, to fund such efforts as may be necessary and appropriate
 to dispose of hazardous waste materials associated with those areas and
 components of the SCIP electric system transferred to GRIC and SCAT and
 with those areas and components retained by the Secretary. Beginning on
 October 1, 1991, funds deposited into this account pursuant to sections
 5(a)(2) and 5(e) shall be used to carry out the purposes of this section
 until exhausted. Any funds remaining in the account after October 1, 2005,
 shall revert to the general fund of the United States Treasury. The Secretary
 shall be responsible for any hazardous waste disposal required by this section
 not covered by the funds deposited pursuant to sections 5(a)(5) and 5(e).
SEC. 7. FEDERAL POWER REALLOCATION.
 (a) REALLOCATION OF RESOURCES- Upon the request of the Secretary, the
 Secretary of Energy shall enter into such agreements as are necessary
 to reallocate SCIP's allocation of Federal power resources--capacity and
 energy--as provided in this section.
 (b) SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST- The Secretary of Energy shall treat GRIC,
 SCIDD, and SCAT as successors in interest to SCIP in reallocating SCIP's
 allocation of capacity and energy from the Parker-Davis Project (the two
 projects consolidated by the Act of May 28, 1954 (Chapter 241; 68 Stat. 143))
 and the Colorado River Storage Project (43 U.S.C. 620 et seq.), including
 capacity and energy available pursuant to the Memorandum of Understanding
 numbered 14-06-300-2632 and Memorandum of Understanding numbered DE-MS65-80WP
 39041 between the Western Area Power Administration, Department of Energy,
 and the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and any other
 agreement to provide preference power to SCIP prior to December 31, 1992.
 (c) PROPORTIONS ASSIGNED- The SCIP allocations of winter and summer capacity
 and energy shall be assigned to GRIC, SCIDD, and SCAT in accordance with
 the proportions set forth in the table included in the report of the Senate
 Select Committee on Indian Affairs on this Act.
 (d) RATES- Preference power--capacity and energy--shall be delivered to GRIC,
 SCAT, and SCIDD pursuant to the allocations provided for in this section
 at the rate established for preference power as determined in accordance
 with ratemaking procedures established by the Department of Energy.
 (e) BOULDER CANYON PROJECT- The Bureau of Indian Affairs shall assign its
 contract with the Arizona Power Authority for capacity and energy from the
 Boulder Canyon Project (43 U.S.C. 617 et seq.; 45 Stat. 1057) in accordance
 with the proportions referred to in subsection (c) and the Secretary shall
 request the Arizona Power Authority to take all necessary actions required
 to effectuate such assignment in accordance with the contract dated as of
 September 15, 1986, between the Arizona Power Authority and the SCIP.
 (f) LONG-TERM POWER SUPPLY; RATES- The Secretary shall enter into an
 agreement with GRIC and SCIDD to provide a long-term power supply to the
 irrigation wells and pumps installed by SCIP to provide water to SCIP lands
 on and off the lands of GRIC. The rate for the electricity supplied by GRIC
 and SCIDD shall be based on the average cost per kilowatt hour for power
 purchased by GRIC and SCIDD from the Parker-Davis Project and marketed by
 the Western Area Power Administration, plus an allowance for the cost of
 operating and maintaining the transmission and distribution systems of
 GRIC and SCIDD, including administrative costs and reserves, as long as
 such power is made available to GRIC and SCIDD in quantities sufficient to
 meet SCIP's pumping requirements. The rate shall be reviewed and adjusted
 annually to reflect any changes in the average cost of power purchased by
 the Parker-Davis Project and the actual costs incurred by GRIC and SCIDD
 to operate and maintain the transmission and distribution systems.
SEC. 8. FEDERAL EMPLOYEES.
 (a) ELECTION TO CONTINUE CERTAIN BENEFITS- Any Federal employee at SCIP
 whose position is terminated by reason of this Act who, within thirty days
 of such termination, is employed by the San Carlos Apache Tribal Utility
 Authority or the Gila River Indian Community Utility Authority is entitled,
 if the employee and the respective authority so elect, to the following:
 (1) To retain coverage, rights, and benefits under subchapter I of chapter
 81 (relating to compensation for work injuries) of title 5, United States
 Code, and for this purpose employment with the tribal authority shall be
 deemed employment by the United States. However, if an injured employee,
 or his dependents in case of his death, receives from the tribal authority
 any payment (including an allowance, gratuity, payment under an insurance
 policy for which the premium is wholly paid by the tribal authority, or
 other benefit of any kind) on account of the same injury or death, the
 amount of that payment shall be credited against any benefit payable under
 subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, as follows:
 (A) Payments on account of injury or disability shall be credited against
 disability compensation payable to the injured employee.
 (B) Payments on account of death shall be credited against death compensation
 payable to dependents of the deceased employee.
 (2) To retain coverage, rights, and benefits under chapter 83 (relating to
 retirement) or chapter 84 (relating to Federal employees' retirement system)
 of title 5, United States Code, if necessary employee deductions and agency
 contributions in payment for coverage, rights, and benefits for the period
 of employment with the tribal authority are currently deposited in the
 Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund (pursuant to chapter 83 or
 chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code) and, if appropriate, the Thrift
 Savings Fund (pursuant to section 8432 of title 5, United States Code), and
 the period during which coverage, rights, and benefits are retained under
 this paragraph is deemed creditable service under section 8332 or 8411 of
 title 5, United States Code. Days of unused sick leave to the credit of an
 employee under a formal leave system at the time the employee leaves Federal
 employment to be employed by a tribal authority remain to his credit for
 retirement purposes during covered service with the tribal authority.
 (3) To retain coverage, rights, and benefits under chapter 89 (relating to
 health insurance) of title 5, United States Code, if necessary employee
 deductions and agency contributions in payment for the coverage, rights,
 and benefits for the period of employment with the tribal authority are
 currently deposited in the Employee's Health Benefit Fund (pursuant to
 section 8909 of title 5, United States Code), and the period during which
 coverage, rights, and benefits are retained under this paragraph is deemed
 service as an employee under chapter 89 of title 5, United States Code.
 (4) To retain coverage, rights, and benefits under chapter 87 (relating
 to life insurance) of title 5, United States Code, if necessary employee
 deductions and agency contributions in payment for the coverage, rights,
 and benefits for the period of employment with the tribal authority are
 currently deposited in the Employee's Life Insurance Fund (pursuant to
 section 8714 of title 5, United States Code), and the period during which
 coverage, rights, and benefits are retained under this paragraph is deemed
 service as an employee under chapter 87 of title 5, United State Code.
 (b) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS- During the period an employee is entitled to
 the coverage, rights, and benefits pursuant to subsection (a), the tribal
 authority employing such employee shall deposit currently in the appropriate
 funds the employee deductions and agency contributions required by paragraphs
 (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a).
 (c) PRIORITY PLACEMENT- The Secretary shall establish and maintain a
 Departmental Priority Placement Program for SCIP employees serving in
 competitive positions under career or career-conditional appointments
 who have satisfactory levels of performance and who receive a notice of
 involuntary separation as a result of divestiture of the SCIP electric
 system pursuant to the provisions of this Act. Employees must apply in
 writing for placement into the program not later than thirty calendar
 days after receipt of notice of involuntary separation. Employees shall be
 entitled to be placed on a priority basis into vacant positions outside the
 competitive area from which they are separated, at the same grade or level
 they last held in the agency and for which they are qualified, based upon
 the availability of such positions.
 (d) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
 (1) the term `employee' means an employee as defined in section 2106 of
 title 5, United States Code;
 (2) the term `agency' means the Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
 (3) the term `involuntary separation' means any separation from agency
 employment against the will and without the consent of the employee.
 (e) REGULATIONS- The Secretary may prescribe regulations necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this section and to protect and assure the
 compensation, retirement, insurance, leave, reemployment rights, and such
 other similar civil service employment rights as he finds appropriate.
SEC. 9. MISCELLANEOUS.
 (a) EFFECT ON EXISTING RIGHTS- Nothing in this Act shall--
 (1) affect any right of the City of Mesa, Arizona, to deliver electric service
 to lands currently owned by the City of Mesa in Pinal County, Arizona; or
 (2) be construed as having any effect on the right of any Arizona incorporated
 rural electric cooperative to seek to provide electric service pursuant to
 existing Federal or State law.
 (b) APPROVAL BY ARIZONA CORPORATION COMMISSION- Approval by the Arizona
 Corporation Commission of the allocation of electric service areas and systems
 as set forth in the Statements of Principles shall constitute recognition
 and confirmation of the financial viability and territorial integrity of
 the signatories to the Statements of Principles within the meaning of the
 provisions of the Rural Electrification Act of May 20, 1936, as amended
 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq.; 49 Stat. 1363; 63 Stat. 948).
 (c) EXISTING OBLIGATION OF THE UNITED STATES- Nothing in this Act shall
 affect any obligation of the United States to SCAT to provide power at
 the rate of 2 mils per kilowatt hour for irrigation pumping and agency and
 school purposes pursuant to the Act of March 7, 1928 (45 Stat. 200, 210).
 (d) SCIP IRRIGATION DIVISION- The Secretary is authorized to expend not
 more than $1,200,000 from funds credited to the SCIP Irrigation Division
 to acquire not more than ten acres of land and to acquire or construct such
 facilities as may be necessary and appropriate to provide for the efficient
 maintenance, operation, and administration of the SCIP Irrigation Division.
SEC. 10. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Transfer of SCIP facilities and assets to GRIC, SCAT, and
 SCIDD under section 4 and allocation of funds under section 5 shall not take
 effect until such time as the Secretary issues a statement of findings that--
 (1) the Arizona Corporation Commission has approved, pursuant to Arizona
 law, the allocation of electric service areas and systems as set forth in
 the Statements of Principles;
 (2) the Secretary has entered into an agreement with GRIC, SCAT, and SCIDD
 providing for the division of assets as provided in section 4(e);
 (3) the Secretary has entered into an agreement with GRIC and SCIDD providing
 for a long-term power supply to SCIP pumps as provided in section 7(f);
 (4) all agreements necessary for the reallocation of preference power as
 required by section 7 have been executed and the Bureau of Indian Affairs
 has assigned its contract with the Arizona Power Authority to GRIC, SCAT
 and SCIDD in accordance with the terms of such contract and the proportions
 prescribed in section 7;
 (5) the Arizona Public Service Company has terminated its existing wholesale
 power agreement with SCIP and released SCIP from paying any termination
 charges under such agreement; and
 (6) SCIDD has entered into the agreement with the Secretary as required in
 section 5(d).
 (b) REVERSION IF REQUIREMENTS NOT MET- Unless all of the conditions and
 requirements set forth in subsection (a) have been met by December 31, 1992,
 all contracts entered into pursuant to this Act shall be null and void,
 the United States shall retain ownership and control of the SCIP electric
 system and all associated funds and assets as it did before the date of the
 enactment of this Act, and any preference power reallocation made pursuant
 to section 7 of this Act shall revert back to the SCIP under the same terms
 and conditions that existed prior to the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.