 
--H.R.5925--
H.R.5925
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to establish a revolving
fund for use by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to provide
education, technical assistance, and training relating to the laws administered
by the Commission.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `EEOC Education, Technical Assistance, and
  Training Revolving Fund Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. REVOLVING FUND.
  Section 705 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-4) is amended
  by adding at the end the following:
  `(k)(1) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the United States a
  revolving fund to be known as the `EEOC Education, Technical Assistance, and
  Training Revolving Fund' (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the
  `Fund') and to pay the cost (including administrative and personnel expenses)
  of providing education, technical assistance, and training relating to
  laws administered by the Commission. Monies in the Fund shall be available
  without fiscal year limitation to the Commission for such purposes.
  `(2)(A) The Commission shall charge fees in accordance with the provisions
  of this paragraph to offset the costs of education, technical assistance,
  and training provided with monies in the Fund. Such fees for any education,
  technical assistance, or training--
  `(i) shall be imposed on a uniform basis on persons and entities receiving
  such education, assistance, or training,
  `(ii) shall not exceed the cost of providing such education, assistance,
  and training, and
  `(iii) with respect to each person or entity receiving such education,
  assistance, or training, shall bear a reasonable relationship to the cost of
  providing such education, assistance, or training to such person or entity.
  `(B) Fees received under subparagraph (A) shall be deposited in the Fund
  by the Commission.
  `(C) The Commission shall include in each report made under subsection
  (e) information with respect to the operation of the Fund, including--
  `(i) the identity of each person or entity to which the Commission provided
  education, technical assistance, or training with monies in the Fund,
  in the fiscal year for which such report is prepared,
  `(ii) the cost to the Commission to provide such education, technical
  assistance, or training to such person or entity, and
  `(iii) the amount of any fee received by the Commission from such person
  or entity for such education, technical assistance, or training.
  `(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest the portion of the Fund
  not required to satisfy current expenditures from the Fund, as determined
  by the Commission, in obligations of the United States or obligations
  guaranteed as to principal by the United States. Investment proceeds shall
  be deposited in the Fund.
  `(4) There is hereby transferred to the Fund $1,000,000 from the Salaries
  and Expenses appropriation of the Commission.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.