 
--H.R.5954--
 H.R.5954
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
An Act to amend the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
1990 to improve health care services and educational services through
telecommunications, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES AND EDUCATIONAL SERVICES
THROUGH TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
  (a) PROGRAMS FOR CONSORTIA IN QUALIFIED LOCAL EXCHANGE SERVICE AREAS- Chapter
  1 of subtitle D of title XXIII of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
  and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq.) is amended by adding at
  the end the following new section:
`SEC. 2335A. SPECIAL HEALTH CARE AND DISTANCE LEARNING PROGRAM FOR QUALIFIED
SERVICE AREAS.
  `(a) DEVELOPMENT OF CONSORTIA- The Administrator shall encourage the
  development of consortia to provide health care services or educational
  services through telecommunications in rural areas of a qualified local
  exchange carrier service area. Each consortium shall be composed of--
  `(1) a tertiary care facility, rural referral center, medical teaching
  institution, or educational institution accredited by the State;
  `(2) any number of institutions that provide health care services or
  educational services; and
  `(3) not less that three rural hospitals, clinics, community health centers,
  migrant health centers, local health departments, or similar facilities,
  or not less than three educational institutions accredited by the State.
  `(b) Special Program for Qualified Local Exchange Carrier Service Areas-
  `(1) REGULATIONS AND SPECIAL PROGRAM- Through regulations issued not later
  than 190 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator
  shall establish a program under which qualified consortia described in
  subsection (a) located within qualified local exchange carrier service
  areas may apply to the Administrator for grants to support the costs
  of activities involved in the sending and receiving of information that
  will improve the delivery of health care services or educational services
  through telecommunications in rural areas.
  `(2) SELECTION OF GRANTEES- The Administrator shall--
  `(A) establish application procedures;
  `(B) review the applications submitted under this subsection in a timely
  manner; and
  `(C) make grants in accordance with this subsection  and with regulations
  issued by the Administrator.
  `(3) Priorities-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Priority for grants under this subsection shall be accorded
  applicants whose applications and plans demonstrate--
  `(i) the greatest likelihood of successfully and efficiently carrying out
  the activities described in the application and the plan of the applicant;
  `(ii) the greatest likelihood of improving health care services or
  educational services in the rural areas;
  `(iii) coordination between local exchange carriers to carry out activities
  as described in the application; and
  `(iv) unconditional financial support from each affected local community.
  `(B) GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY- In awarding grants, the Administrator shall
  seek to achieve geographic diversity among the grantees.
  `(4) MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF GRANT- The amount of each grant awarded under this
  subsection shall not exceed $1,500,000.
  `(5) DISTRIBUTION OF GRANTS- Grants to a qualified consortium under this
  subsection shall be disbursed over a period of not more than 3 years.
  `(6) USE OF FUNDS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Grants under this subsection may be used to support the
  costs of activities involving the sending and receiving of information
  to improve health care services or educational services in rural areas,
  including--
  `(i) in the case of grants to improve health care services--
  `(I) consultations between health care providers;
  `(II) transmitting and analyzing x rays, lab slides, and other images;
  `(III) developing and evaluating automated claims processing, and
  transmitting automated patient records; and
  `(IV) developing innovative health professions education programs;
  `(ii) in the case of grants to improve educational services--
  `(I) developing innovative education programs and expanding curriculum
  offerings;
  `(II) providing continuing education to all members of the community;
  `(III) providing means for libraries of educational institutions or public
  libraries to share resources;
  `(IV) providing the public with access to State and national data bases;
  `(V) conducting town meetings; and
  `(VI) covering meetings of agencies of State government; and
  `(iii) in all cases--
  `(I) transmitting financial information; and
  `(II) such other related activities as the Administrator considers to be
  consistent with the purposes of this section.
  `(7) LIMITATION ON ACQUISITION OF INTERACTIVE TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT-
  Not more than 40 percent of the amount of any grant made under this
  subsection may be used to acquire interactive telecommunications end
  user equipment.
  `(8) LIMITATION ON USE OF CONSULTANTS- Not more than 5 percent of the
  amount of any grant made under this subsection may be used to employ or
  contract with any consultant or similar person.
  `(9) PROHIBITIONS- Grants made under this subsection may not be used, in
  whole or in part, to establish or operate a telecommunications network or
  to provide any telecommunications services for hire.
  `(c) EXPEDITED TELEPHONE LOANS- Local exchange carriers located in a
  qualified local exchange carrier service area shall be eligible to apply for
  expedited loans under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901 et
  seq.). The Administrator shall respond to a completed application for such
  a loan no later than 45 days after receipt. The Administrator shall notify
  the applicant in writing of its decision regarding each such application.
  `(d) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `qualified local exchange
  carrier service area' means the service area of a local telephone exchange
  carrier in which the local exchange carrier has a plan approved by the
  Administrator for upgrading and modernizing the rural telecommunications
  infrastructure of the service area. The plan shall--
  `(1) provide for eliminating party line service within the local exchange
  carrier service area and for other improvements and modernization in rural
  telephone service;
  `(2) provide for the enhancement of the availability of educational
  opportunities or the availability of improved medical care through
  telecommunications;
  `(3) encourage and improve the use of telecommunications, computer
  networks, and related advanced technologies to provide educational and
  medical benefits to people in rural areas; and
  `(4) provide for the achievement of the goals described in subparagraphs
  (A) through (C) not later than 10 years after the approval of the plan.'.
  (b) EXTENSION OF CHAPTER 1- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  chapter 1 of subtitle D of title XXIII of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation
  and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq.), including the amendments
  made by this section, shall be effective until September 30, 1997.
  (c) ALLOCATION OF FUNDS- Section 2335(b) of the Food, Agriculture,
  Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 950aaa-4) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(8) Use of appropriated funds-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to subparagraph (B), the Administrator shall
  make available--
  `(i) 50 percent of the funds made available pursuant to paragraph (3)
  for grants for end users that are consortia participating in the special
  program established under section 2335A; and
  `(ii) 50 percent of the funds made available pursuant to paragraph (3)
  to provide funds for the programs, and end users participating in the
  programs, authorized by sections 2331 through 2335.
  `(B) RELEASE OF FUNDS- Not earlier than April 1 and not later than May
  1 of each year, the Administrator shall make such funds described in
  subparagraph (A) as remain unobligated, available for any purpose described
  in subparagraph (A).'.
  (d) EFFECT OF AMENDMENTS- The amendments made by this section shall not
  apply to funds appropriated for fiscal year 1993 to carry out subtitle D
  of title XXIII of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
  1990 (7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq.) or require the revision of any regulation
  proposed to carry out such subtitle during fiscal year 1993.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.