 
--H.R.1989--
H.R.1989
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the National Institute of Standards and
Technology and the Technology Administration of the Department of Commerce,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `high-resolution information systems' means equipment and
 techniques required to create, store, recover, and play back high-resolution
 images and accompanying sound;
 (2) the term `advanced manufacturing technology' means numerically-controlled
 machine tools, robots, automated process control equipment, computerized
 flexible manufacturing systems, associated computer software, and other
 technology for improving manufacturing and industrial processes;
 (3) the term `advanced materials' means a field of research including the
 study of composites, ceramics, metals, polymers, superconducting materials,
 materials produced through biotechnology, and materials production
 technologies, including coated systems, that provide the potential for
 significant advantages over existing materials;
 (4) the term `Institute' means the National Institute of Standards and
 Technology;
 (5) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce; and
 (6) the term `Under Secretary' means the Under Secretary of Commerce for
 Technology.
TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Technology Administration Authorization
 Act of 1991'.
SEC. 102. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
 Congress finds that in order to help United States industries to speed the
 development of new products and processes so as to maintain the economic
 competitiveness of the Nation, it is necessary to strengthen the programs
 and activities of the Department of Commerce's Technology Administration
 and National Institute of Standards and Technology.
SEC. 103. TECHNOLOGY ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) FISCAL YEAR 1992- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated to
 the Secretary, to carry out the activities of the Under Secretary and the
 Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 which shall be available for the following line items:
 (A) Office of the Under Secretary, $2,000,000.
 (B) Technology Policy, $4,000,000.
 (C) Japanese Technical Literature, $1,500,000.
 (D) Clearinghouse on State and Local Initiatives on Productivity, Technology,
 and Innovation, $1,000,000.
 (E) National Technical Information Service, $1,500,000 to carry out the
 modernization plan described in section 212(f)(3)(D) of the National
 Technical Information Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 3704b(f)(3)(D)).
 (2) Funds may be transferred among the line items listed in paragraph (1),
 so long as the net funds transferred to or from any line item do not exceed
 10 percent of the amount authorized for that line item in such paragraph and
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
 Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives
 are notified in advance of any such transfer.
 (b) FISCAL YEAR 1993- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated to
 the Secretary, to carry out the activities of the Under Secretary and the
 Assistant Secretary for Technology Policy, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 which shall be available for the following line items:
 (A) Office of the Under Secretary, $2,000,000.
 (B) Technology Policy, $4,000,000.
 (C) Japanese Technical Literature, $1,500,000.
 (D) Clearinghouse on State and Local Initiatives on Productivity, Technology,
 and Innovation, $1,000,000.
 (E) National Technical Information Service, $1,500,000 to carry out the
 modernization plan described in section 212(f)(3)(D) of the National
 Technical Information Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 3704b(f)(3)(D)).
 (2) Funds may be transferred among the line items listed in paragraph (1),
 so long as the net funds transferred to or from any line item do not exceed
 10 percent of the amount authorized for that line item in such paragraph and
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
 Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives
 are notified in advance of any such transfer.
 (c) OPERATING COSTS- Operating costs for the National Technical Information
 Service associated with the acquisition, processing, storage, bibliographic
 control, and archiving of information and documents shall be recovered
 primarily through the collection of fees.
 (d) REPORT AND CERTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- Within 90 days after the date of
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report which--
 (1) describes the Department of Commerce's response to the Inspector
 General's Report No. ATD-024-0-001;
 (2) includes a revised detailed modernization plan for the National Technical
 Information Service;
 (3) contains a business plan for the National Technical Information Service
 which includes detailed profit and loss analysis  for groups of products
 and services and for major market segments; and
 (4) certifies that the National Technical Information Service has--
 (A) employed a chief financial officer who is a certified public accountant
 or equivalently experienced accountant with experience in the dissemination
 of scientific and technical information; and
 (B) begun taking reasonable steps toward strengthening its accounting system
 in response to the Inspector General's report described in paragraph (1).
 (e) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 5422(a) of the Omnibus Trade and
 Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4603a(a)) and section 273(c)(4)
 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1988 and 1989
 (15 U.S.C. 4603(c)(4)) are each amended by striking `Economic Affairs'
 and inserting  in lieu thereof `Technology'.
SEC. 104. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY.
 (a) FISCAL YEAR 1992- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated to the
 Secretary, to carry out the intramural scientific and technical research
 and services activities of the Institute, $210,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 which shall be available for the following line items:
 (A)Electronics and Electrical Measurements, $33,700,000.
 (B) Manufacturing Engineering, $13,500,000.
 (C) Chemical Science and Technology, $22,000,000.
 (D) Physics, $27,000,000.
 (E) Materials  Science and Engineering, $30,000,000.
 (F) Building and Fire Research, $12,300,000.
 (G) Computer Systems, $16,000,000.
 (H)Applied Mathematics and Scientific Computing, $6,500,000.
 (I) Technology Assistance, $11,000,000.
 (J) Research Support Activities, $38,000,000.
 (2)(A) Of the total of the amounts authorized under paragraph (1), $2,000,000
 are authorized only for steel technology.
 (B) Of the amount authorized under paragraph (1)(I)--
 (i) $500,000 are authorized only for the evaluation of nonenergy-related
 inventions and related technology extension activities;
 (ii) $250,000 are authorized only for Institute participation in the pilot
 program established under subsection (e); and
 (iii) $2,700,000 are authorized only for the Institute's management of the
 extramural funding programs authorized under section 105.
 (C) Of the total amount authorized  under paragraph (1)(J), $7,565,000 are
 authorized  only for the technical competence fund.
 (b) FISCAL YEAR 1993- (1) There are authorized to be appropriated  to the
 Secretary, to carry out the intramural scientific  and technical research
 and services activities of the Institute, $221,200,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 which shall be available for the following line items:
 (A)Electronics and Electrical Measurements, $36,000,000.
 (B) Manufacturing Engineering, $16,000,000.
 (C) Chemical Science and Technology, $22,500,000.
 (D) Physics, $28,700,000.
 (E) Materials Science and Engineering, $39,400,000.
 (F) Building and Fire Research, $12,000,000.
 (G) Computer Systems, $20,600,000.
 (H)Applied Mathematics and Scientific Computing, $6,300,000.
 (I) Technology Assistance, $10,800,000.
 (J) Research Support Activities, $25,000,000.
 (K) Pay Raise, $3,900,000.
 (2)(A) Of the total of the amounts authorized under paragraph (1), $2,000,000
 are authorized only for steel technology.
 (B) Of the amount authorized under paragraph (1)(I)--
 (i) $500,000 are authorized only for the evaluation of nonenergy-related
 inventions and related technology extension activities;
 (ii) $250,000 are authorized only for Institute participation in the pilot
 program established under subsection (e); and
 (iii) $5,000,000 are authorized only for the Institute's management of the
 extramural funding programs authorized under section 105.
 (C) Of the total amount authorized under paragraph (1)(J), $7,223,000 are
 authorized only for the technical competence fund.
 (3) In addition to the amounts authorized under paragraph (1), there
 are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 1993
 $34,800,000 for the renovation and upgrading of the Institute's facilities.
 (c) TRANSFERS- (1) Funds may be transferred among the line items listed in
 subsection (a)(1) and among the line items listed in subsection (b)(1), so
 long as the net funds transferred to or from any line item do not exceed 10
 percent of the amount authorized for that line item in such subsection and
 the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
 Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives
 are notified in advance of any such transfer.
 (2) The Secretary may propose transfers to or from any line item listed in
 subsection (a)(1) or subsection (b)(1) exceeding 10 percent of the amount
 authorized for such line item, but such proposed transfer may not be made
 unless--
 (A) a full and complete explanation of any such proposed transfer and the
 reason therefor are transmitted in writing to the Speaker of the House of
 Representatives, the President of the Senate, and the appropriate authorizing
 Committees of the House of Representatives and the Senate, and
 (B) 30 calendar days have passed following the transmission of such written
 explanation.
 (d) RELATION TO OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS- Except for authorizations provided in
 the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (Public Law 100-418; 102
 Stat. 1448), the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 (42 U.S.C. 7701
 et seq.), and the Steel and Aluminum Energy Conservation and Technology
 Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.), this Act contains
 the complete authorizations of appropriations for the Institute for fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993. This subsection shall not limit the authority of the
 Institute to accept funds appropriated to any other Federal agency or to
 perform work for others.
 (e) PILOT PROGRAM- Pursuant to the authorizations contained in subsections
 (a)(1)(I) and (b)(1)(I), the Secretary is authorized to pay the Federal
 share of the cost of establishing and carrying out a standards assistance
 pilot program under section 112 of the National Institute of Standards and
 Technology Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1989 (15 U.S.C. 272 note). The
 purpose of the pilot program is to assist a country or countries that
 have requested assistance from the United States in the development of
 comprehensive industrial standards by providing the continuous presence of
 United States personnel on-site for a period of 2 or more years to provide
 such assistance and by providing, as necessary, additional technical support
 from within the Institute. Such funds shall be made available for such purpose
 only to the extent that matching funds are received by the National Institute
 of Standards and Technology from sources outside the Federal Government.
 (f) CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES- Section 14 of the National Institute
 of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278d) is amended by striking
 `herein:' and all that follows, and inserting in lieu thereof `herein.'.
 (g) FIRE AND BUILDING PROGRAMS- The fire research and building technology
 programs of the Institute may be combined for administrative purposes only,
 and separate budget accounts for fire research and building technology shall
 be maintained. No later than December 31, 1992, the Secretary, acting through
 the Director of the Institute, shall report to Congress on the results of the
 combination, on efforts to preserve the integrity of the  fire research and
 building technology programs, on the long-range basic and applied research
 plans of the two programs, on procedures for receiving advice on fire and
 earthquake research priorities from constituencies concerned with public
 safety, and on the relation between the combined program at the Institute
 and the United States Fire Administration.
 (h) EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS- (1) Section 18 of the National Institute  of
 Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278g-1) is amended by striking the
 period at the end of the first sentence and   inserting in lieu thereof
 `, and to United States citizens for research and technical activities on
 Institute  programs.'.
 (2) Section 17 of the National Institute  of Standards and Technology Act
 (15 U.S.C. 278g) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) For any scientific and engineering disciplines for which there is a
 shortage of suitably qualified and available  United States citizens and
 nationals, the Secretary is authorized to recruit and employ in scientific
 and engineering fields at the Institute  foreign nationals who have been
 lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence under the
 Immigration and Nationality Act and who intend to become United States
 citizens. Employment of a person under this paragraph shall not be subject
 to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing employment in
 the competitive service, or to any prohibition in any other Act against
 the employment of aliens, or against the payment of compensation to them.'.
 (i) CORE PROGRAM FUNDING- It is the sense of the Congress that the intramural
 scientific and technical research and services activities of the  National
 Institute  of Standards and Technology should share fully in any funding
 increases provided to the Institute.
SEC. 105. EXTRAMURAL PROGRAMS OF THE INSTITUTE.
 (a) FISCAL YEAR 1992- In addition to any sums otherwise authorized under
 this Act, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary, to
 carry out the extramural industrial technology services programs of the
 Institute  created under sections 25, 26, and 28 of the   National Institute
 of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278k, 278l, and 278n), $127,500,000
 for fiscal year 1992, which  shall be available for the following line items:
 (1) Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology,
 $25,000,000.
 (2) State Technology Extension Program, $2,500,000.
 (3) Advanced Technology Program, $100,000,000.
 (b) FISCAL YEAR 1993- In addition to any sums otherwise authorized under
 this Act, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary, to carry
 out the extramural industrial technology services programs of the Institute
 created under sections 25, 26, and 28 of the  National Institute  of Standards
 and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278k, 278l, and 278n), $127,500,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, which shall be available for the following line items:
 (1) Regional Centers for the Transfer of Manufacturing Technology and
 Satellite Manufacturing Centers, $25,000,000.
 (2) State Technology Extension Program, $2,500,000.
 (3) Advanced Technology Program, $100,000,000.
 (c) LIMITATION- No funds are authorized under this section for any
 project under the extramural programs of the Institute which have not been
 competitively reviewed through the merit review processes required by the
 National Institute  of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 271 et seq.).
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO EXTENSION PROGRAM- Section 5121(b) of the Omnibus Trade
 and Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 278l note) is amended by striking
 paragraph (5).
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO EXTENSION ACTIVITIES- (1) Section 25(c)(6) of the
 National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278k(c)(6))
 is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: `except
 for contracts for such specific technology extension or transfer services
 as may be specified by statute or by the Director'.
 (2) Section 25(d) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act
 (15 U.S.C. 278k(d)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d) In addition to such sums as may be authorized and appropriated to the
 Secretary and Director to operate the Centers program, the Secretary and
 Director also may accept funds from other Federal departments and agencies
 for the purpose of providing Federal funds to support Centers. Any Center
 which is supported with funds which originally came from other Federal
 departments and agencies shall be selected and operated according to the
 provisions of this section.'.
 (f) ADVISORY COMMITTEE- Section 5142(f) of the Omnibus Trade and
 Competitiveness Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4632(f)) is amended by striking
 `and 1990' and inserting in lieu thereof `1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993'.
SEC. 106. SALARY ADJUSTMENTS.
 In addition to any sums otherwise authorized by this Act, there are authorized
 to be appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 such
 additional sums as may be necessary to make any adjustments in salary, pay,
 retirement and other employee benefits which may be provided for by law.
SEC. 107. METRIC AMENDMENT.
 (a) The Fair Packaging and Labeling Act (15 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in sections 4(a) (2), (4), and (5), 4(b), and 5(c)(1), by striking
 `weight' and inserting in lieu thereof `weight or mass';
 (2) in sections 4(a)(5) and 5(d), by striking `weights' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `weights or masses';
 (3) in section 4(a)(2), by inserting `, using the most appropriate units
 of the SI metric system as the primary system for measuring quantity' after
 `panel of that label'; and
 (4) in section 4(a)(3)(A)--
 (A) by striking `containing' and inserting in lieu thereof `that also
 displays the avoirdupois system of measure, and that contains' in clause (i);
 (B) by inserting `that also displays the avoirdupois system of measure'
 after `random package' in clause (ii);
 (C) by inserting `that also displays the avoirdupois system of measure'
 after `linear measure' in clause (iii); and
 (D) by inserting `that also displays the avoirdupois system of measure'
 after `measure of area' in clause (iv).
 (b) This section shall take effect 2 years after the date of enactment of
 this Act.
SEC. 108. TRANSFER OF FEDERAL SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL INFORMATION.
 (a) TRANSFER- The head of each Federal executive department or agency
 shall transfer in a timely manner to the National Technical Information
 Service unclassified scientific, technical, and engineering information
 which results from federally funded research and development activities for
 dissemination to the private sector, academia, State and local governments,
 and Federal agencies. Only information which would otherwise be available
 for public dissemination shall be transferred under this subsection. Such
 information shall include technical reports and information, computer
 software, application assessments generated pursuant to section 11(c) of
 the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(c)),
 and information regarding training technology and other federally owned or
 originated technologies. The Secretary shall issue regulations within one year
 after the date of enactment of this Act outlining procedures for the ongoing
 transfer of such information to the National Technical Information Service.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS- As part of the annual report required under
 section 212(f)(3) of the National Technical Information Act of 1988, the
 Secretary shall report to Congress on the status of efforts under this
 section to ensure access to Federal scientific and technical information
 by the public. Such report shall include--
 (1) an evaluation of the comprehensiveness of transfers of information by
 each Federal executive department or agency under subsection (a);
 (2) a description of the use of Federal scientific and technical information;
 (3) plans for improving public access to Federal scientific and technical
 information; and
 (4) recommendations for legislation necessary to improve public access to
 Federal scientific and technical information.
SEC. 109. AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Appropriations made under the authority provided in this Act shall remain
 available for obligation, for expenditure, or for obligation and expenditure
 for periods specified in the Acts making such appropriations.
SEC. 110. REPORT ON FACILITIES NEEDS.
 By March 1, 1992, the Director of the Institute shall submit to the Committee
 on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on
 Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a report on
 what renovations and upgrades of Institute facilities are necessary over
 the next decade. The report shall include a ranking of facilities needs
 in order of priority, an estimate of costs, and the Director's plan for
 meeting these needs.
SEC. 111. BUY-AMERICAN PROVISIONS.
 (a) RESTRICTIONS ON CONTRACT AWARDS- No contract or subcontract made with
 funds authorized under this title may be awarded for the procurement of an
 article, material, or supply produced or manufactured in a foreign country
 whose government unfairly maintains in government procurement a significant
 and persistent pattern or practice of discrimination against United States
 products or services which results in identifiable harms to United States
 businesses, as identified by the President pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(A) of
 section 305 of the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2515(g)(1)(A)). Any
 such determination shall be made in accordance with such section 305.
 (b) PROHIBITION AGAINST FRAUDULENT USE OF `MADE IN AMERICA' LABELS- If it
 has been finally determined by a court or a Federal agency that any person
 intentionally affixed a label bearing a `Made in America' inscription, or
 an inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold in or shipped to
 the United States that is not made in the United States, that person shall
 be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract from the Department of
 Commerce, pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures
 in subpart 9.4 of chapter 1 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
 (c) BUY-AMERICAN REQUIREMENT- (1) The Secretary is authorized to award to
 a domestic firm a contract for the purchase of goods that, under the use
 of competitive procedures, would be awarded to a foreign firm, if--
 (A) the final product of the domestic firm will be completely assembled in
 the United States;
 (B) when completely assembled, more than 50 percent of the final product
 of the domestic firm will be domestically produced; and
 (C) the difference between the bids submitted by the foreign and domestic
 firms is not more than 6 percent.
 (2) This subsection shall not apply to the extent to which--
 (A) in the opinion of the Secretary, after taking into consideration
 international obligations and trade relations, such applicability would
 not be in the public interest;
 (B) in the opinion of the Secretary, after consultation with the Secretary
 of Defense, compelling national security considerations require otherwise; or
 (C) the President determines that such an award would be in violation of
 the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or an international agreement
 to which the United States is a party.
 (3) This subsection shall apply only to contracts made for which--
 (A) amounts are authorized by this title to be made available; and
 (B) solicitations for bids are issued after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (4) The Secretary, before January 1, 1993, shall report to the Congress on
 contracts covered under this subsection--
 (A) entered into with foreign firms pursuant to a determination made under
 paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
 (B) awarded to domestic firms pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection,
 in fiscal years 1991 and 1992.
 (5) For purposes of this subsection--
 (A) the term `domestic firm' means a business entity that is incorporated
 in the United States and that conducts business operations in the United
 States; and
 (B) the term `foreign firm' means a business entity not described in
 subparagraph (A).
TITLE II--ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM AMENDMENTS
SEC. 201. EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This title may be cited as the `Emerging Technologies and
 Advanced Technology Program Amendments Act of 1991'.
 (b) FINDINGS AND PURPOSES- (1) The Congress finds that--
 (A) technological innovation and its profitable inclusion in commercial
 products are critical components of the ability of the United States to
 raise the living standards of Americans and to compete in world markets;
 (B) maintaining viable United States-based high technology industries is
 vital to both the national security and the economic well-being of the
 United States;
 (C) the Department of Commerce has reported that the United States is losing
 or losing badly, relative to Japan and Europe, in many important emerging
 technologies and risks losing much of the $350,000,000,000 United States
 market and $1,000,000,000,000 world market expected to develop by the year
 2000 for products based on emerging technologies;
 (D) it is in the national interest for the Federal Government to encourage
 and, in selected cases, provide limited financial assistance to industry-led
 private sector efforts to increase research and development in economically
 critical areas of technology;
 (E) joint ventures are a particularly effective and appropriate way to pool
 resources to conduct research that no single company is likely to undertake
 but which will create new generic technologies that will benefit an entire
 industry and the welfare of the Nation;
 (F) it is vital that industry within the United States attain a leadership
 role and capability in development, design, and manufacturing in fields
 such as high-resolution information systems, advanced manufacturing, and
 advanced materials; and
 (G) the Advanced Technology Program, established under section 28 of
 the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278n),
 is the appropriate vehicle for the United States Government to provide
 limited assistance to joint development within the United States of new
 high technology capabilities in fields such as high-resolution information
 systems, advanced manufacturing technology, and advanced materials, and
 can help encourage United States industry to work together on problems of
 mutual concern.
 (2) The purposes of this section are--
 (A) to strengthen the Advanced Technology Program created under section 28
 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278n),
 and to provide improved guidelines for the allocation of Advanced Technology
 Program funds appropriated under the authorizations contained in section
 105 of this Act;
 (B) to promote and assist in the development of advanced technologies and
 the generic application of such technologies to civilian products, processes,
 and services;
 (C) to improve the competitive position of United States industry by
 supporting industry-led research and development projects in areas of
 emerging technology which have substantial potential to advance the
 economic well-being and national security of the United States, such as
 high-resolution information systems, advanced manufacturing technology,
 and advanced materials; and
 (D) to support projects that range from idea exploration to prototype
 development and address long-term, high-risk areas of technological research,
 development, and application that are not otherwise being adequately
 developed by the private sector, but are likely to yield important benefits
 to the Nation.
 (c) ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM- (1) Section 28(a) of the National Institute
 of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278n(a)), is amended by adding
 at the end the following new sentence: `In operating the Program, the
 Secretary and Director shall, as appropriate, be guided by the findings
 and recommendations of the Biennial National Critical Technology Reports
 prepared pursuant to section 603 of the National Science and Technology
 Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6683).'.
 (2) Section 28(b)(1) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act
 (15 U.S.C. 278n(b)(1)), is amended by inserting `industry-led' immediately
 after `aid'.
 (3) Section 28(b)(1)(B) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology
 Act (15 U.S.C. 278n(b)(1)(B)), is amended by inserting `by means of grants,
 cooperative agreements, or contracts' immediately after `such joint ventures'.
 (4) Section 28(b)(2) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology
 Act (15 U.S.C. 278n(b)(2)), is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) provide grants to and enter into contracts and cooperative agreements
 with United States businesses (especially small businesses), provided that
 emphasis is placed on applying the Institute's research, research techniques,
 and expertise to those organizations' research programs;'.
 (5) Section 28(d)(2) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology
 Act (15 U.S.C. 278n(d)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) In the case of joint ventures, the Program shall not make an award unless
 the award will facilitate the formation of a joint venture or the initiation
 of a new research and development project by an existing joint venture.'.
 (6) Section 28(d) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act
 (15 U.S.C. 278n(d)(7)) is amended--
 (A) by striking paragraph (7);
 (B) by redesignating paragraphs (8) and (9) as paragraphs (7) and (8),
 respectively; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(9) A company shall be eligible to receive financial assistance under this
 section only if--
 `(A) the Secretary finds that the company's participation in the Program
 would be in the economic interest of the United States, as evidenced by
 investments in the United States in research, development, and manufacturing
 (including, for example, the manufacture of major components or subassemblies
 in the United States); significant contributions to employment in the United
 States; and agreement with respect to any technology arising from assistance
 provided under this section to promote the manufacture within the United
 States of products resulting from that technology (taking into account the
 goals of promoting the competitiveness of United States industry), and to
 procure parts and materials from competitive suppliers; and
 `(B) either--
 `(i) the company is a United States-owned company; or
 `(ii) the Secretary finds that the company is incorporated in the United
 States and has a parent company which is incorporated in a country which
 affords to United States-owned companies opportunities, comparable to
 those afforded to any other company, to participate in any joint venture
 similar to those authorized under this Act; affords to United States-owned
 companies local investment opportunities comparable to those afforded to
 any other company; and affords adequate and effective protection for the
 intellectual property rights of United States-owned companies.
 `(10) Grants, contracts, and cooperative assignments under this section
 shall be designed to support projects which are high risk and which have the
 potential for eventual substantial widespread commercial application. In order
 to receive a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement under this section,
 a research and development entity shall demonstrate to the Secretary the
 requisite ability in research and technology development and management in
 the project area in which the grant, contract, or cooperative agreement is
 being sought.
 `(11)(A) Title to any intellectual property arising from assistance provided
 under this section shall vest in a company or companies incorporated in the
 United States. The United States may reserve a nonexclusive, nontransferable,
 irrevocable paid-up license, to have practiced for or on behalf of the United
 States, in connection with any such intellectual property, but shall not,
 in the exercise of such license, publicly disclose proprietary information
 related to the license. Title to any such intellectual property shall not
 be transferred or passed, except to a company incorporated in the United
 States, until the expiration of the first patent obtained in connection
 with such intellectual property.
 `(B) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `intellectual property'
 means an invention patentable under title 35, United States Code, or any
 patent on such an invention.
 `(C) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prohibit the licensing
 to any company of intellectual property rights arising from assistance
 provided under this section.'.
 (7) Section 28(e) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act
 (15 U.S.C. 278n(e)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(e) The Secretary may, within 30 days after notice to Congress, suspend
 a company or joint venture from continued assistance under this section if
 the Secretary determines that the company, the country of incorporation of
 the company or a parent company, or the joint venture has failed to satisfy
 any of the criteria set forth in subsection (d)(9), and that it is in the
 national interest of the United States to do so.'.
 (8) Section 28 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15
 U.S.C. 278n) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(f) When reviewing private sector requests for awards under the Program, and
 when monitoring the progress of assisted research projects, the Secretary and
 the Director shall, as appropriate, coordinate with the Secretary of Defense
 and other senior Federal officials to ensure cooperation and coordination
 in Federal technology programs and to avoid unnecessary duplication of
 effort. The Secretary and the Director are authorized to work with the
 Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Secretary of
 Defense, and other appropriate Federal officials to form interagency working
 groups or special project offices to coordinate Federal technology activities.
 `(g) In order to analyze the need for the value of joint ventures and other
 research projects in specific technical fields, to evaluate any proposal
 made by a joint venture or company requesting the Secretary's assistance,
 or to monitor the progress of any joint venture or any company research
 project which receives Federal funds under the Program, the Secretary,
 the Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology, and the Director may,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law, meet with such industry sources
 as they consider useful and appropriate.
 `(h) Up to 10 percent of the funds appropriated for carrying out this
 section may be used for standards development and technical activities by
 the Institute in support of the purposes of this section.
 `(i) In addition to such sums as may be authorized and appropriated to the
 Secretary and Director to operate the Program, the Secretary and Director
 also may accept funds from other Federal departments and agencies for the
 purpose of providing Federal funds to support awards under the Program. Any
 Program award which is supported with funds which originally came from
 other Federal departments and agencies shall be selected and carried out
 according to the provisions of this section.
 `(j) As used in this section--
 `(1) the term `joint venture' means any group of activities, including
 attempting to make, making, or performing a contract, by two or more persons
 for the purpose of--
 `(A) theoretical analysis, experimentation, or systematic study of phenomena
 or observable facts;
 `(B) the development or testing of basic engineering techniques;
 `(C) the extension of investigative finding or theory of a scientific or
 technical nature into practical application for experimental and demonstration
 purposes, including the experimental production and testing of models,
 prototypes, equipment, materials, and processes;
 `(D) the collection, exchange, and analysis of research information;
 `(E) the production of any product, process, or service; or
 `(F) any combination of the purposes specified in subparagraphs (A), (B),
 (C), (D), and (E),
and may include the establishment and operation of facilities for the
conducting of research, the conducting of such venture on a protected and
proprietary basis, and the prosecuting of applications for patents and the
granting of licenses for the results of such venture; and
 `(2) the term `United States-owned company' means a company that has majority
 ownership or control by individuals who are citizens of the United States.'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments in subsection (c) shall take effect
 immediately upon enactment; however, the amendments shall not apply to
 applications submitted before the date of enactment of this Act.
 (e) MANAGEMENT COSTS- Section 2 of the National Institute of Standards and
 Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 272) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new subsection:
 `(d) In carrying out the extramural funding programs of the Institute,
 including the programs established under sections 25, 26, and 28 of this
 Act, the Secretary may retain reasonable amounts of any funds appropriated
 pursuant to authorizations for these programs in order to pay for the
 Institute's management of these programs.'.
 (f) COMPREHENSIVE REPORT- The Secretary shall, not later than 4 years after
 the date of enactment of this Act, submit to each House of the Congress
 and the President a comprehensive report on the results of the Advanced
 Technology Program established under section 28 of the National Institute
 of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 278n), including any activities
 in the areas of high-resolution information systems, advanced manufacturing
 technology, and advanced materials.
TITLE III--AMENDMENTS TO THE STEVENSON-WYDLER TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION ACT OF 1980
SEC. 301. FEDERAL LABORATORY CONSORTIUM.
 (a) Section 11(e)(2) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act
 of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(e)(2)) is amended by inserting `senior' after
 `Consortium and a'.
 (b) Section 11(e)(6) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of
 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(e)(6)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `Such report shall include an annual independent audit of the financial
 statements of the Consortium, conducted in accordance with generally accepted
 accounting principles.'.
 (c) Section 11(e)(7)(B)(ii) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation
 Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(e)(7)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking `or 1991'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, or 1996'.
 (d) Section 11(e)(8) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of
 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710(e)(8)) is repealed.
SEC. 302. COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
 (a) Section 12(d)(1) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of
 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(1)) is amended by inserting `intellectual property,'
 after `equipment,' both places it appears.
 (b) Within 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 shall report to the Congress on the advisability of authorizing a new form
 of cooperative research and development agreement which would permit Federal
 contributions of funds.
SEC. 303. RESEARCH EQUIPMENT.
 Section 11 of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
 U.S.C. 3710) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(i) RESEARCH EQUIPMENT- The Director of a laboratory, or the head of any
 Federal agency or department, may give research equipment that is excess
 to the needs of the laboratory, agency, or department to an educational
 institution or nonprofit organization for the conduct of technical and
 scientific education and research activities. Title of ownership shall
 transfer with a gift under the section.'.
SEC. 304. DEFINITION OF FEDERAL AGENCY.
 Section 4(8) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980
 (15 U.S.C. 3703(8)) is amended by inserting `, as well as any agency of
 the legislative branch of the Federal Government' after `of such title'.
SEC. 305. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT.
 Section 17(f) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15
 U.S.C. 3711a(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following: `The Director
 is authorized to use appropriated funds to carry out responsibilities under
 this Act.'.
SEC. 306. UNDER SECRETARY.
 Section 5(c) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980
 (15 U.S.C. 3704(c)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (13) and (14) as paragraphs (14) and (15),
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following new paragraph:
 `(13) serve as a focal point for discussions among United States companies
 on topics of interest to industry and labor, including discussions regarding
 manufacturing and discussions regarding emerging technologies;'.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON REDUCING CAPITAL COSTS FOR EMERGING TECHNOLOGY
SEC. 401. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON REDUCING CAPITAL COSTS FOR EMERGING
TECHNOLOGY.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE- There is established a National Commission
 on Reducing Capital Costs for Emerging Technology (hereafter in this
 section referred to as the `Commission'), for the purpose of developing
 recommendations to increase the competitiveness of United States industry
 by encouraging investments in research, the development of new process and
 product technologies, and the production of those technologies.
 (b) ISSUES- The function of the Commission shall be to address the following
 issues:
 (1) How has the overall cost of capital paid by United States companies
 differed during the past decade from that paid by companies in other
 industrial economies such as Germany, Japan, and the United Kingdom?
 (2) To what extent has the cost of capital faced by technology companies
 differed from the overall cost of capital in each of these nations during
 the same period?
 (3) To what extent do high capital costs in general inhibit investment in
 projects with long-term payoffs, such as the development and commercialization
 of new technology?
 (4) To what extent does the structure of the financial services industry
 in the United States affect the flow of capital to advanced technology
 investment, and to what extent do current practices in the equity markets
 raise the cost of capital and inhibit the availability of capital to fund
 research and development, purchase advanced manufacturing equipment, and
 fund other investments necessary to commercialize advanced technology?
 (5) In what ways do Government regulations influence the cost of capital
 in the United States?
 (6) To what extent have national differences in capital costs facilitated
 the foreign acquisition of technology-based United States companies?
 (7) What macroeconomic and other policies would promote greater investment
 in advanced manufacturing techniques, in research and development, and in
 other activities necessary to commercialize and produce new technologies?
 (8) What specific policies should the Federal Government follow in order
 to reduce the cost of capital for United States companies to levels that
 are near parity with those faced by the Nation's principal trading partners?
 (c) MEMBERSHIP- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 9 members who are
 eminent in such fields as advanced technology, manufacturing, finance,
 and international economics and who are appointed as follows:
 (A) 3 individuals appointed by the President, one of whom shall chair
 the Commission.
 (B) 3 individuals appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
 1 of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the minority leader
 of the House of Representatives.
 (C) 3 individuals appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate, 2
 of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the majority leader
 of the Senate and 1 of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of
 the minority leader of the Senate.
 (2) Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission. A vacancy
 in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in which the original
 appointment was made.
 (d) PROCEDURES- (1) The chairman shall call the first meeting of the
 Commission within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (2) Recommendations of the Commission shall require the approval of
 three-quarters of the members of the Commission.
 (3) The Commission may use such personnel detailed from Federal agencies
 as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its duties.
 (4) Members of the Commission, other than full-time employees of the Federal
 Government, while attending meetings of the Commission while away from their
 homes or regular places of business, shall be allowed travel expenses in
 accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
 (e) REPORTS- The Commission shall, within 1 year after the date of enactment
 of this Act, submit to the President and Congress a report containing
 legislative and other recommendations with respect to the issues addressed
 under subsection (b).
 (f) CONSULTATION- The Commission shall consult, as appropriate, with the
 Commission on Technology and Procurement established by section 505 of
 this Act.
 (g) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate 6 months after the submission
 of its report under subsection (e).
 (h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for the fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993.
TITLE V--STUDIES AND REPORTS
SEC. 501. HIGH-RESOLUTION INFORMATION SYSTEMS ADVISORY BOARD.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE- The Director of the Office of Science and
 Technology Policy shall establish within that office a High-Resolution
 Information Systems Advisory Board (hereafter in this section referred to
 as the `Board') to monitor and, as appropriate, foster the development of
 United States-based high-resolution information systems industries.
 (b) DEFINITION- As used in this title, the term `high-resolution information
 systems' means the equipment and techniques required to create, store,
 recover, and play back high-resolution images and accompanying sound.
 (c) FUNCTIONS- The Board shall--
 (1) collect and analyze information on the range of factors which will
 determine whether United States-based high-resolution information systems
 industries will develop and become competitive, including such factors as
 technology policies, specialized financial problems, international standards
 and foreign trade practices, Federal  regulations and procurement policies,
 and licensing practices;
 (2) identify areas where appropriate cooperation between the Federal
 Government and the private sector, including Government support for
 industry-led joint research and development ventures, would enhance United
 States industrial competitiveness in this area, and provide advice and
 guidance for such cooperative efforts;
 (3) provide guidance on what Federal policies and practices, particularly in
 such areas as procurement and the transfer of federally-funded research, are
 necessary to help establish United States-based high-resolution information
 systems industries;
 (4) provide advice on the coordination of Federal defense and civilian
 activities to maximize and assist with the transfer of technologies in the
 field of high-resolution information systems into commercial products; and
 (5) generally develop recommendations for guiding Federal agency activities
 related to the development of United States-based high-resolution information
 systems industries.
 (d) MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEDURES- (1)(A) The Board shall be composed of 13
 members, 7 of whom shall constitute a quorum.
 (B) The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the
 Secretary, the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency,
 and the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
 or their designees, shall serve as members of the Board.
 (C) The President, acting through the Director of the Office of Science and
 Technology Policy, within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 shall appoint as additional members of the Board--
 (i) 5 members from the private electronics manufacturing sector, drawn
 from such sectors as semiconductors, display equipment, computers, consumer
 electronics, and telecommunications, with 1 member also representing labor;
 (ii) 3 members from the private nonmanufacturing sector, including
 1 representative from the transmission delivery systems sector and 2
 representatives drawn from such areas as the software industry, the
 entertainment industry, and the investment community; and
 (iii) 1 member from academia.
At least 1 member appointed under this subparagraph shall be from small
business.
 (2) The  Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy or the
 Director's designee shall chair the Board.
 (3) The chairman shall call the first meeting of the Board within 30 days
 after the appointment of members is completed.
 (4) The Board may use such personnel detailed from Federal agencies as may
 be necessary to enable it to perform its functions.
 (5) Members of the Board, other than full-time employees of the Federal
 Government, while attending meetings of the Board or otherwise performing
 duties of the Board while away from their homes or regular places of business,
 shall be allowed travel expenses in accordance with subchapter I of chapter
 57 of title 5, United States Code.
 (6) The Board shall submit a report of its activities once every year
 after its establishment to the President, the Committees on Science, Space,
 and Technology and on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives,
 and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.
 (e) LIMITATION ON FUNCTIONS- Nothing in this section or any other provision
 of this Act shall be construed--
 (1) to authorize the Board to investigate or provide advice or guidance
 with respect to standards or other regulations or policies related to
 the transmission, delivery, or receipt of broadcast television or cable
 television signals subject to regulation by the Federal Communications
 Commission under the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.); or
 (2) to limit, modify, or affect in any manner the authorities, functions or
 responsibilities of the Federal Communications Commission or the National
 Telecommunications and Information Administration.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for the fiscal
 years 1992 and 1993.
SEC. 502. MAJOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROPOSALS.
 The National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act
 of 1976 is amended by adding at the end of title II the following new section:
`MAJOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PROPOSALS
 `SEC. 209. The Director shall identify and provide an annual report to
 Congress on each major multinational science and technology project, in
 which the United States is not a participant, which has a total estimated
 cost greater than $1,000,000,000.'.
SEC. 503. BIENNIAL NATIONAL CRITICAL TECHNOLOGIES REPORT AMENDMENTS.
 Section 603 of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization,
 and Priorities Act of 1976 (42 U.S.C. 6683) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `, but shall include the most economically
 important emerging civilian technologies during the 10-year period following
 such report, together with the estimated current and future size of domestic
 and international markets for products derived from these technologies'
 after `may not exceed 30';
 (2) in subsection (b), by striking `national security and' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `national security or';
 (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
 (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
 `(d) Each such report shall include--
 `(1) an identification of the types of research and development needed
 to close any significant gaps or deficiencies in the technology base of
 the United States, as compared with the technology bases of major trading
 partners; and
 `(2) a list of the technologies and markets targeted by major trading
 partners for development or capture.'.
SEC. 504. CRITICAL INDUSTRIES.
 (a) IDENTIFICATION OF INDUSTRIES AND DEVELOPMENT OF PLAN- The Secretary
 shall--
 (1) identify those civilian industries in the United States that are necessary
 to support a robust manufacturing infrastructure and critical to the economic
 security of the United States; and
 (2) list the major research and development initiatives being undertaken,
 and the substantial investments being made, by the Federal Government,
 including its research laboratories, in each of the critical industries
 identified under paragraph (1).
 (b) INITIAL REPORT- The Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress
 within 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act on the actions taken
 under subsection (a).
 (c) ANNUAL UPDATES- The Secretary shall annually submit to the Congress an
 update of the report submitted under subsection (b). Each such update shall--
 (1) describe the status of each identified critical industry, including
 the advances and declines occurring since the most recent report; and
 (2) identify any industries that should be added to the list of critical
 industries.
SEC. 505. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TECHNOLOGY UTILIZATION, AND GOVERNMENT
PROCUREMENT POLICY.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION- The Secretary, in consultation with the
 Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy, shall establish a
 Commission on Technology and Procurement (hereafter in this section referred
 to as the `Commission'), for the purposes of analyzing the effect of Federal
 Government procurement laws, procedures, and policies on the development of
 advanced technologies within the United States and making recommendations
 on how Federal policy could be changed to promote further the development
 of advanced technologies.
 (b) ISSUES- The Commission shall address the following issues:
 (1) To what extent, if any, should Federal Government technology purchase
 strategies be used to give domestic suppliers a competitive advantage in
 new generations of existing technologies and in initial market penetration
 for new technologies?
 (2) Under what conditions can Federal Government purchases of advanced
 technology-based products be based on performance specifications rather
 than on product specifications? Should Federal Government procurement first
 look to the commercial markets for products that will meet performance
 specifications before purchasing a unique product that has to be developed?
 (3) How can the Federal Government procurement laws, practices, and procedures
 be used as a strategic tool to foster the use of emerging technologies?
 (4) How can the Federal Government ensure that its suppliers adopt the
 principles embodied in the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award?
 (5) Should Federal Government procurement practices include cooperative
 efforts between the supplier and the Federal entity to develop products
 so as to be more easily marketed on a commercial basis? Should a program
 for the exchange of technical personnel to foster innovation in product
 development be part of such practices?
 (6) To what extent, if any, should Federal Government documents specify
 standards that are beneficial to domestic suppliers, aid the compatibility
 of advanced technologies, and speed the commercial acceptance of those
 technologies, and what would be the role of the Institute in such an effort?
 (7) Should Federal Government procurement be linked to the Advanced
 Technology Program and to technology transfer activities so that specification
 development can incorporate the latest technical advances available?
 (8) To what extent should worldwide, state of the art technology be required
 in Federal Government procurement?
 (c) MEMBERSHIP AND PROCEDURES- (1) The Commission shall be composed of 15
 members, 8 of whom shall constitute a quorum.
 (2) The Secretary, the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement
 Policy, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the
 Secretary of Defense, and the Administrator of General Services, or their
 designees who serve in executive level positions, shall serve as members
 of the Commission.
 (3) The Secretary shall appoint as members of the Commission, from among
 individuals not employed by the Federal Government--
 (A) 4 members who are eminent in advanced technology businesses representing
 manufacturing and services industries, including at least 1 member
 representing labor;
 (B) 3 members who are eminent in the fields of technology and international
 economic development; and
 (C) with the concurrence of the Administrator of the Office of Federal
 Procurement Policy, 3 members who are eminent in the field of Federal
 Government procurement.
 (4) The Secretary shall appoint a Commission chairman from among the
 members of the Commission. The chairman shall call the first meeting of
 the Commission within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (5) The Secretary and the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement
 Policy shall provide such staff as may be required by the Commission to
 carry out its responsibilities.
 (6) Members of the Commission, other than full-time employees of the Federal
 Government, while attending meetings of the Commission or otherwise performing
 duties of the Commission while away from their homes or regular places of
 business, shall be allowed travel expenses in accordance with subchapter
 I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
 (d) REPORTS- (1) The Commission shall, within 1 year after the date of
 enactment of this Act, submit to the Secretary, the Administrator of the
 Office of Federal Procurement Policy, the President, and Congress a report
 containing preliminary recommendations with respect to the issues addressed
 under subsection (b).
 (2) The Commission shall, within 2 years after the date of enactment of this
 Act, submit to the Secretary and Congress a final report containing final
 recommendations with respect to the issues addressed under subsection (b).
 (e) CONSULTATION- The Commission shall consult, as appropriate, with the
 National Commission on Reducing Capital Costs for Emerging Technology.
 (f) TERMINATION- The Commission shall terminate 6 months after the submission
 of its final report under subsection (d)(2).
 (g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for the fiscal
 years 1992, 1993, and 1994.
SEC. 506. REPORT ON INFORMATION COLLECTION AND DISSEMINATION.
 (a) REPORT- Within 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary shall report to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology
 of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science,
 and Transportation of the Senate on the feasibility of establishing and
 operating a Federal Online Information Product Catalog (FEDLINE) at the
 National Technical Information Service which would serve as a comprehensive
 inventory and authorizative register of information products and services
 disseminated by the Federal Government and assist agencies and the public
 in locating Federal Government information. Information protected from
 public disclosure shall not be included. In studying the concept, the
 Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary and the Director of the
 National Technical Information Service, shall consult with officials from
 appropriate Government agencies, including the Office of Management and
 Budget, the National Archives, the Government Printing Office, and the
 Institute, and with representatives of the public, for their views on the
 optimal composition and format of FEDLINE. Such report shall contain cost
 estimates and possible funding sources for establishing and operating FEDLINE
 and shall list any changes in law and regulation that would be required if
 FEDLINE were to be implemented.
 (b) FUNDING- The Director of the National Technical Information Service
 may retain and use all monies received, including receipts, revenues, and
 advanced payments and deposits, to fund obligations and expenses through
 the end of fiscal year 1993.
 (c) ELECTRONIC FORMAT- Section 212(e)(5) of the National Technical Information
 Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 3704b(e)(5)) is amended by inserting `, including
 producing and disseminating information products in electronic format'
 after `engineering information'.
SEC. 507. NATIONAL QUALITY COUNCIL.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS- There is established a National Quality
 Council (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Council'). The
 functions of the Council shall be--
 (1) to establish national goals and priorities for Quality performance in
 business, education, government, and all other sectors of the Nation;
 (2) to encourage and support the voluntary adoption of these goals and
 priorities by companies, unions, professional and business associations,
 coalition groups, and units of government, as well as private and nonprofit
 organizations;
 (3) to arouse and maintain the interest of the people of the United States
 in Quality performance, and to encourage the adoption and institution
 of Quality performance methods by all corporations, government agencies,
 and other organizations; and
 (4) to conduct a White House Conference on Quality Performance in the American
 Workplace that would bring together in a single forum national leaders in
 business, labor, education, professional societies, the media, government,
 and politics to address Quality performance as a means of improving United
 States competitiveness.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Council shall consist of not less than 17 or more than
 20 members, appointed by the Secretary. Members shall include--
 (1) at least 2 but not more than 3 representatives from manufacturing
 industry;
 (2) at least 2 but not more than 3 representatives from service industry;
 (3) at least 2 but not more than 3 representatives from national Quality
 not-for-profit organizations;
 (4) two representatives from education, one with expertise in elementary
 and secondary education, and one with expertise in post-secondary education;
 (5) one representative from labor;
 (6) one representative from professional societies;
 (7) one representative each from local and State government;
 (8) one representative from the Federal Quality Institute;
 (9) one representative from the National Institute of Standards and
 Technology;
 (10) one representative from the Department of Defense;
 (11) one representative from a civilian Federal agency not otherwise
 represented on the Council, to be rotated among such agencies every 2
 years; and
 (12) one representative from the Foundation for the Malcolm Baldrige National
 Quality Award.
 (c) TERMS- The term of office of each member of the Council appointed under
 paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (b) shall be 2 years, except that
 when making the initial appointments under such paragraphs; the Secretary
 shall appoint not more than 50 percent of the members to 1 year terms. No
 member appointed under such paragraphs shall serve on the Council for more
 than 2 consecutive terms.
 (d) CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN- The Secretary shall designate one of
 the members initially appointed to the Council as Chairman. Thereafter,
 the members of the Council shall annually elect one of their number as
 Chairman. The members of the Council shall also annually elect one of their
 members as Vice Chairman. No individual shall serve as Chairman or Vice
 Chairman for more than 2 consecutive years.
 (e) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND EMPLOYEES- The Council shall appoint and fix
 the compensation of an Executive Director, who shall hire and fix the
 compensation of such additional employees as may be necessary to assist the
 Council in carrying out its functions. In hiring such additional employees,
 the Executive Director shall ensure that no individual hired has a conflict
 of interest with the responsibilities of the Council.
 (f) FUNDING- There is established in the Treasury of the United States a
 National Quality Performance Trust Fund, into which all funds received by the
 Council, through private donations or otherwise, shall be deposited. Amounts
 in such Trust Fund shall be available to the Council, to the extent provided
 in advance in appropriations Acts, for the purpose of carrying out the
 functions of the Council under this Act.
 (g) CONTRIBUTIONS- The Council may not accept private donations from
 a single source in excess of $25,000 per year. Private donations from a
 single source in excess of $10,000 per year may be accepted by the Council
 only on approval of two-thirds of the Council.
 (h) ANNUAL REPORT- The Council shall annually submit to the President and
 the Congress a comprehensive and detailed report on--
 (1) the progress in meeting the goals and priorities established by the
 Council;
 (2) the Council's operations, activities, and financial condition;
 (3) contributions to the Council from non-Federal sources;
 (4) plans for the Council's operations and activities for the future; and
 (5) any other information or recommendations the Council considers
 appropriate.
SEC. 508. STUDY OF TESTING AND CERTIFICATION.
 (a) CONTRACT WITH NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL- Within 90 days after the
 date of enactment of this Act and within available appropriations, the
 Secretary shall enter into a contract with the National Research Council
 for a thorough review of international product testing and certification
 issues. The National Research Council will be asked to address the following
 issues and make recommendations as appropriate:
 (1) The impact on United States manufacturers, testing and certification
 laboratories, certification organizations, and other affected bodies of
 the European Community's plans for testing and certification of regulated
 and nonregulated products of non-European origin.
 (2) Ways for United States manufacturers to gain acceptance of their products
 in the European Community and in other foreign countries and regions.
 (3) The feasibility and consequences of having mutual recognition agreements
 between testing and certification organizations in the United States
 and those of major trading partners on the accreditation of testing and
 certification laboratories and on quality control requirements.
 (4) Information coordination regarding product acceptance and conformity
 assessment mechanisms between the United States and foreign governments.
 (5) The appropriate Federal, State, and private roles in coordination and
 oversight of testing, certification, accreditation, and quality control to
 support national and international trade.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- In selecting the members of the review panel, the National
 Research Council shall consult with and draw from, among others, laboratory
 accreditation organizations, Federal and State government agencies involved
 in testing and certification, professional societies, trade associations,
 small business, and labor organizations.
 (c) REPORT- A report based on the findings and recommendations of the review
 panel shall be submitted to the Secretary, the President, and Congress
 within 18 months after the Secretary signs the contract with the National
 Research Council.
SEC. 509. REPORT ON A STRATEGY TO STIMULATE COMPETITIVE RESEARCH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- No later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy shall
 submit to Congress a report presenting a proposed strategy for improving the
 university research capabilities of those States which historically have
 received relatively little Federal research and development funding. The
 report shall particularly--
 (1) analyze recent steps to use the National Science Foundation's Experimental
 Program to Stimulate Competitive Research as a model for similar programs
 in several other Federal departments and agencies which fund research and
 development; and
 (2) examine the feasibility and advisability of using that Program as a
 model for Federal research and development agencies which do not currently
 have similar programs.
 (b) ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION- The report shall include an analysis and
 discussion of--
 (1) the geographic distribution of Federal research and development grants
 and contracts;
 (2) current Federal efforts to stimulate competitive research; and
 (3) the feasibility and advisability of new Federal programs to stimulate
 competitive research.
SEC. 510. INTERAGENCY COORDINATION.
 The Secretary shall, within 180 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the
 Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the
 Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, a plan
 for coordination of Commerce Department efforts with other Federal agencies
 for activities related to high-resolution information systems, including
 research and development activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.