 
--H.R.1642--
H.R.1642
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish in the State of Texas the Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic
Site, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Palo Alto Battlefield National Historic Site
 Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that:
 (1) The study conducted by the National Park Service under section 506(b)
 of Public Law 95-625 has resulted in  a precise identification of the
 location of the Battle of Palo Alto and the area requiring protection.
 (2) Palo Alto is the only unit of the National Park System directed to the
 preservation and interpretation of resources related to the Mexican-American
 War.
SEC. 3. PALO ALTO BATTLEFIELD NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to preserve for the education, benefit, and
 inspiration of present and future generations the nationally significant
 site of the first battle of the Mexican-American War, and to provide
 for its interpretation in such manner as to portray the battle and the
 Mexican-American War and its related political, diplomatic, military and
 social causes and consequences, there is hereby established the Palo Alto
 Battlefield National Historic Site in the State of Texas (hereafter in this
 Act referred to as the `historic site').
 (b) BOUNDARY- (1) The historic site shall consist of approximately 3,400
 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled `Palo Alto Battlefield
 National Historic Site', numbered 469-80,002, and dated March 1991. The map
 shall be on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the
 Director of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
 (2) Within 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
 of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Secretary')
 shall file a legal description of the historic site with the Committee on
 Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 and with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States
 Senate. Such legal description shall have the same force and effect as if
 included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and
 typographic errors in such legal description and in the map referred to
 in paragraph (1). The legal description shall be on file and available for
 public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department
 of the Interior. The Secretary may, from time to time, make minor revisions
 in the boundary of the historic site.
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION.
 The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, shall
 manage the historic site in accordance with this Act and the provisions of
 law generally applicable to the National Park System, including the Act
 of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act of
 August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666). The Secretary shall protect, manage, and
 administer the historic site for the purposes of preserving and interpreting
 the cultural and natural resources of the historic site and providing for
 the public understanding and appreciation of the historic site in such a
 manner as to perpetuate these qualities and values for future generations.
SEC. 5. LAND ACQUISITION.
 Within the historic site, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and
 interest in lands by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds,
 or exchange. Lands or interests in lands owned by the State of Texas or
 political subdivisions thereof may be acquired only by donation.
SEC. 6. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 In furtherance of the purposes of this Act, the Secretary is authorized
 to enter into cooperative agreements with the United States of Mexico, in
 accordance with existing international agreements, and with other owners
 of Mexican-American War properties within the United States of America for
 the purposes of conducting joint research and interpretive planning for the
 historic site and related Mexican-American War sites. Interpretive information
 and programs shall reflect historical data and perspectives of both countries
 and the series of historical events associated with the Mexican-American War.
SEC. 7. MANAGEMENT PLAN.
 Within 3 years after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall
 develop and transmit to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of
 the United States House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and
 Natural Resources of the Senate, a general management plan for the historic
 site. The plan shall be consistent with section 12 of the Act of August 18,
 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1a-7) and with the purposes of this Act and shall include
 (but not be limited to) each of the following:
 (1) A resource protection program including land acquisition needs.
 (2) A general visitor use and interpretive program.
 (3) A general development plan including such roads, trails, markers,
 structures, and other improvements and facilities as may be necessary for
 the accommodation of visitor use in accordance with the purposes of this
 Act and the need to preserve the integrity of the historic site.
 (4) A research plan.
 (5) Identification of appropriate cooperative agreements as identified in
 section 6.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 for acquisition of lands
 and interests in lands for purposes of the Palo Alto Battlefield National
 Historic Site.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.