 
--H.R.5126--
H.R.5126
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To direct the Secretary of the Treasury to mint coins in commemoration of the
100th anniversary of the beginning of the protection of Civil War battlefields,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Civil War Battlefield Commemorative Coin
  Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
  (a) FIVE DOLLAR GOLD COINS- The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in
  this Act referred to as the `Secretary') shall issue not more than 300,000
  five dollar coins which shall--
  (1) weigh 8.359 grams,
  (2) have a diameter of 0.850 inches, and
  (3) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent alloy.
  (b) ONE DOLLAR SILVER COINS- The Secretary shall issue not more than
  1,000,000 one dollar coins which shall--
  (1) weigh 26.73 grams,
  (2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches, and
  (3) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
  (c) HALF DOLLAR CLAD COINS- The Secretary shall issue not more than 2,000,000
  half dollar coins which shall be minted to the specifications for half
  dollar coins contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United States Code.
  (d) DESIGN-
  (1) DESIGN REQUIREMENTS- The design of the coins authorized under this
  Act shall be emblematic of the Civil War. On each such coin there shall
  be a designation of the value of the coin, an inscription of the year
  `1995', and inscriptions of the words `Liberty', `In God We Trust',
  `United States of America', and `E Pluribus Unum'.
  (2) SELECTION OF DESIGN- The Secretary shall select the design of each
  coin authorized under this Act after consultation with the Secretary of
  the Interior, the Commission of Fine Arts, and the Civil War Battlefield
  Foundation (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Foundation').
  (e) LEGAL TENDER- The coins issued under this Act shall be legal tender
  as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
  (f) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY- Coins may not be minted under this Act after
  December 31, 1995.
  (g) PROOF AND UNCIRCULATED COINS- The coins authorized under this section
  shall be issued in uncirculated and proof qualities.
  (h) BUREAU OF THE MINT- Not more than 1 facility of the Bureau of the
  Mint may be used to strike any particular combination of denomination and
  quality of coins under this Act.
SEC. 3. SOURCES OF BULLION.
  (a) GOLD- The Secretary shall obtain gold for the coins minted under this
  Act pursuant to the authority of the Secretary under existing law.
  (b) SILVER- The Secretary shall obtain silver for the coins minted under
  this Act only from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical
  Minerals Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.).
SEC. 4. SALE OF COINS.
  (a) SALE PRICE- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the coins
  issued under this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a price equal to
  the face value, used in minting such coins, plus the cost of designing and
  issuing such coins (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery,
  overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping).
  (b) BULK SALES- The Secretary shall make bulk sales of coins issued under
  this Act at a reasonable discount.
  (c) PREPAID ORDERS AT A DISCOUNT- The Secretary shall accept prepaid
  orders for the coins issued under this Act prior to the issuance of such
  coins. Sales under this subsection shall be at a reasonable discount.
  (d) SURCHARGE REQUIRED- All sales of coins issued under this Act shall
  include a surcharge of $35 per coin for the five dollar coins, $7 per coin
  for the one dollar coins, and $2 per coin for the half dollar coins.
  (e) MARKETING- The Secretary, in cooperation with the Foundation, shall
  develop and implement a marketing program to promote and sell the coins
  authorized under this Act both within the United States and internationally.
SEC. 5. COINAGE PROFIT FUND.
  (a) DEPOSITS- All amounts received from the sale of coins issued under
  this Act shall be deposited into the coinage profit fund.
  (b) PAYMENTS- The Secretary shall pay the amounts authorized under section
  6 from the coinage profit fund.
  (c) EXPENDITURES- The Secretary shall charge the coinage profit fund with
  all expenditures under this Act.
SEC. 6. DISTRIBUTION AND USE OF SURCHARGES.
  (a) DISTRIBUTION- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the total
  surcharges received by the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under
  this Act shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the Foundation and
  used by the Foundation for the preservation of historically significant
  Civil War battlefields.
  (b) APPROVAL OF EXPENDITURES REQUIRED- The Foundation may not expend any
  amount attributable to amounts paid to the Foundation under this section
  unless the Secretary of the Interior approves that expenditure.
  (c) ACCOUNTING- The Foundation shall account for all sums received by
  the Foundation under this section in accordance with generally accepted
  accounting principles and shall utilize such sums in a prudent manner to
  achieve battlefield protection. The books and records of the Foundation
  shall be made available to the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior
  upon request.
  (d) AUDITS- The Comptroller General of the United States shall have the
  right to examine such books, records, documents, and other data of the
  Foundation as may be related to the expenditure of amounts paid to the
  Foundation under this section.
SEC. 7. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), no provision of
  law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to the
  procurement of goods or services necessary for carrying out the provisions
  of this Act.
  (b) EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY- Subsection (a) shall not relieve any
  person entering into a contract under the authority of this Act from
  complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
  (a) NO NET COST- The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary
  to ensure that the minting and issuance of coins under this Act will not
  result in any net cost to the Federal Government.
  (b) FULL PAYMENT- No coin shall be issued under this Act unless the
  Secretary has received--
  (1) full payment for the coin;
  (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the United States
  for full payment; or
  (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary from a
  depository institution the deposits of which are insured by the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration.
SEC. 9. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
  (a) REPORTS REQUIRED- Not later than 15 days after the last day of each
  calendar quarter which ends before April 1, 1996, the Secretary shall
  transmit to the Committee on Banking, Finance
and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate a report detailing activities
carried out under this Act during such quarter.
  (b) CONTENTS OF REPORT- The report shall include a review of all marketing
  activities under section 4 and a financial statement.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.