 
--H.R.5482--
H.R.5482
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
 To revise and extend the programs of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and for
other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Rehabilitation Act Amendments
  of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References.
TITLE I--ADMINISTRATION AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
Subtitle A--Administration
Sec. 101. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Allotment percentage.
Sec. 104. Nonduplication.
Sec. 105. Administration of the Act.
Sec. 106. Reports.
Sec. 107. Evaluation.
Sec. 108. Review of applications.
Sec. 109. Carryover.
Sec. 110. Client assistance information.
Sec. 111. Traditionally underserved populations.
Subtitle B--Vocational Rehabilitation Services
Sec. 121. Policy; authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 122. State plans.
Sec. 123. Determinations of eligibility and individualized written
rehabilitation program.
Sec. 124. Scope of vocational rehabilitation services.
Sec. 125. Non-Federal share for construction.
Sec. 126. State Rehabilitation Advisory Council.
Sec. 127. Evaluation.
Sec. 128. Monitoring and review.
Sec. 129. Expenditure of certain amounts.
Sec. 130. Training of employers with respect to Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990.
Sec. 131. Reallotment.
Sec. 132. Payments to States.
Sec. 133. Client assistance program.
Sec. 134. Innovation and expansion grants.
Sec. 135. Study of needs of American Indians with handicaps.
Sec. 136. Review of data collection system.
Sec. 137. Exchange of data.
Sec. 138. Effective date.
TITLE II--RESEARCH
Sec. 201. Declaration of purpose.
Sec. 202. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 203. National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research.
Sec. 204. Interagency committee.
Sec. 205. Research.
Sec. 206. Rehabilitation Research Advisory Council.
TITLE III--TRAINING AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
Sec. 301. Declaration of purpose; organization.
Sec. 302. Training.
Sec. 303. Community rehabilitation programs for individuals with disabilities.
Sec. 304. Loan guarantees.
Sec. 305. Comprehensive rehabilitation centers.
Sec. 306. General grant and contract requirements.
Sec. 307. Authorization of appropriations for special projects and
supplementary services.
Sec. 308. Special demonstration programs.
Sec. 309. Migratory workers.
Sec. 310. Special recreational programs.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL COUNCIL ON DISABILITY
Sec. 401. Establishment of National Council on Disability.
Sec. 402. Duties of National Council.
Sec. 403. Compensation of National Council members.
Sec. 404. Staff of National Council.
Sec. 405. Administrative powers of National Council.
Sec. 406. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE V--RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY
Sec. 501. Rights and advocacy.
Sec. 502. Effect on existing law.
Sec. 503. Employment of individuals with disabilities.
Sec. 504. References to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers
Compliance Board.
Sec. 505. Employment under Federal contracts.
Sec. 506. Nondiscrimination under Federal grants and programs.
Sec. 507. Secretarial responsibilities.
Sec. 508. Interagency Disability Coordinating Council.
Sec. 509. Electronic and information technology accessibility guidelines.
Sec. 510. Protection and advocacy of individual rights.
TITLE VI--EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
Subtitle A--Community Service Employment Pilot Program for Individuals
With Disabilities
Sec. 601. Pilot program.
Sec. 602. Treatment of personal assistance services costs.
Sec. 603. Definitions.
Sec. 604. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle B--Projects With Industry
Sec. 611. Projects With Industry.
Sec. 612. Business opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
Sec. 613. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle C--Supported Employment Services for Individuals With Severe
Disabilities
Sec. 621. Supported employment.
TITLE VII--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
Sec. 701. Services and centers.
Sec. 702. Effective date.
Sec. 703. Independent living services for older individuals who are blind.
TITLE VIII--SPECIAL DEMONSTRATIONS AND TRAINING PROJECTS
Sec. 801. Special demonstrations and training projects.
TITLE IX--AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Subtitle A--Helen Keller National Center
Sec. 901. Congressional findings.
Sec. 902. Continued operation of Center.
Sec. 903. Audit, monitoring, and evaluation.
Sec. 904. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 905. Definitions.
Sec. 906. Construction of Act, effect on agreements.
Sec. 907. Establishment of a program.
Sec. 908. Technical and conforming amendments.
Subtitle B--Other Programs
Sec. 911. Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely
Disabled.
Sec. 912. Individuals With Disabilities Education Act.
Sec. 913. Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities
Act of 1988.
Sec. 914. President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES.
  Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act an amendment
  or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or a repeal of, a section
  or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to a section
  or other provision of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.).
TITLE I--ADMINISTRATION AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES
Subtitle A--Administration
SEC. 101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  Section 2 (29 U.S.C. 701) is amended to read as follows:
`FINDINGS; PURPOSE; POLICY
  `SEC. 2. (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  `(1) millions of Americans have one or more physical or mental disabilities
  and the number of Americans with such disabilities is increasing;
  `(2) individuals with disabilities constitute one of the most disadvantaged
  groups in society;
  `(3) disability is a natural part of the human experience and in no way
  diminishes the right of individuals to--
  `(A) live independently;
  `(B) enjoy self-determination;
  `(C) make choices;
  `(D) contribute to society;
  `(E) pursue meaningful careers; and
  `(F) enjoy full inclusion and integration in the economic, political,
  social, cultural, and educational mainstream of American society;
  `(4) increased employment of individuals with disabilities can be achieved
  through the provision of individualized training, independent living
  services, educational and support services, and meaningful opportunities for
  employment in integrated work settings through the provision of reasonable
  accommodations;
  `(5) individuals with disabilities continually encounter various forms
  of discrimination in such critical areas as employment, housing, public
  accommodations, education, transportation, communication, recreation,
  institutionalization, health services, voting, and public services; and
  `(6) the goals of the Nation properly include the goal of providing
  individuals with disabilities with the tools necessary to--
  `(A) make informed choices and decisions; and
  `(B) achieve equality of opportunity, full inclusion and integration
  in society, employment, independent living, and economic and social
  self-sufficiency, for such individuals.
  `(b) PURPOSE- The purposes of this Act are--
  `(1) to empower individuals with disabilities to maximize employment,
  economic self-sufficiency, independence, and inclusion and integration
  into society, through--
  `(A) comprehensive and coordinated state-of-the-art programs of vocational
  rehabilitation;
  `(B) independent living centers and services;
  `(C) research;
  `(D) training;
  `(E) demonstration projects; and
  `(F) the guarantee of equal opportunity; and
  `(2) to ensure that the Federal Government plays a leadership role in
  promoting the employment of individuals with disabilities, especially
  individuals with severe disabilities, and in assisting States and providers
  of services in fulfilling the aspirations of such individuals with
  disabilities for meaningful and gainful employment and independent living.
  `(c) POLICY- It is the policy of the United States that all programs,
  projects, and activities receiving assistance under this Act shall be
  carried out in a manner consistent with the principles of--
  `(1) respect for individual dignity, personal responsibility,
  self-determination, and pursuit of meaningful careers, based on informed
  choice, of individuals with disabilities;
  `(2) respect for the privacy, rights, and equal access (including the use
  of accessible formats), of the individuals;
  `(3) inclusion, integration, and full participation of the individuals;
  `(4) support for the involvement of a parent, a family member, a guardian,
  an advocate, or an authorized representative if an individual with a
  disability requests, desires, or needs such support; and
  `(5) support for individual and systemic advocacy and community
  involvement.'.
SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.
  (a) DESIGNATED STATE AGENCY- Section 7(3) (29 U.S.C. 706(3)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii),
  respectively; and
  (2) by striking `(3)' and inserting the following:
  `(3)(A) The term `designated State agency' means an agency designated
  under section 101(a)(1)(A).
  (b) ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAM- Section 7(4)
  (29 U.S.C. 706(4)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `rehabilitation facility' each place the term appears and
  inserting `community rehabilitation program';
  (2) by striking `means' and inserting `includes'; and
  (3) by striking `such facilities)' and inserting `facilities for community
  rehabilitation programs)'.
  (c) EMPLOYMENT OUTCOME- Section 7(6) (29 U.S.C. 706(6)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(6) The term `employment outcome' means, with respect to an individual,
  entering or retaining full-time or, if appropriate, part-time competitive
  employment in the integrated labor market (including satisfying the
  vocational outcome of supported employment) or satisfying any other
  vocational outcome the Secretary may determine, consistent with this Act.'.
  (d) DRUG- Section 7 (29 U.S.C. 706) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (5);
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (6) as paragraphs (6) and (5),
  respectively;
  (3) by inserting paragraph (6) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of
  this subsection) before paragraph (7);
  (4) by redesignating paragraph (22) as paragraph (4); and
  (5) by inserting paragraph (4) (as so redesignated by paragraph (4) of
  this subsection) after paragraph (3).
  (e) FEDERAL SHARE- Section 7(7) (29 U.S.C. 706(7)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `80 percent' and inserting `78.7
  percent';
  (2) by striking subparagraph (B);
  (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and
  (C), respectively; and
  (4) in subparagraph (B) (as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this
  subsection), by striking `section 301(b)(3)' each place the term appears
  and inserting `section 111(a)(3)'.
  (f) INDIVIDUAL WITH DISABILITIES- Section 7(8) (29 U.S.C. 706(8))
  is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A)--
  (A) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability';
  (B) in clause (i)--
  (i) by striking `disability' and inserting `impairment'; and
  (ii) by striking `handicap' and inserting `impediment'; and
  (C) in clause (ii)--
  (i) by striking `reasonably be expected to';
  (ii) by striking `employability' and inserting `an employment outcome'; and
  (iii) by striking `titles I and III' and inserting `titles I, II, III,
  VI, and VIII';
  (2) in subparagraph (B)--
  (A) by striking `(C) and (D)' and inserting `(C), (D), (E), and (F)';
  (B) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability'; and
  (C) by striking `titles IV and V' and inserting `sections 2, 14, and 15,
  and titles IV and V';
  (3) in subparagraph (C)--
  (A) in clause (i), by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability';
  (B) in clause (ii), by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability';
  (C) in clause (iv)--
  (i) by striking `handicapped student' and inserting `student who is an
  individual with a disability and'; and
  (ii) by striking `nonhandicapped students' and inserting `students who
  are not individuals with disabilities'; and
  (D) in clause (v) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following:
  `(E) For the purposes of sections 501, 503 and 504--
  `(i) for purposes of the application of subparagraph (B) to such sections,
  the term `impairment' does not include homosexuality or bisexuality; and
  `(ii) therefore the term `individual with a disability' does not include
  an individual on the basis of homosexuality or bisexuality.
  `(F) For the purposes of sections 501, 503, and 504, the term `individual
  with a disability' does not include an individual on the basis of--
  `(i) transvestism, transsexualism, pedophilia, exhibitionism, voyeurism,
  gender identity disorders not resulting from physical impairments, or
  other sexual behavior disorders;
  `(ii) compulsive gambling, kleptomania, or pyromania; or
  `(iii) psychoactive substance use disorders resulting from current illegal
  use of drugs.'.
  (g) NONPROFIT- Section 7(10) (29 U.S.C. 706(10)) is amended by striking `with
  respect to a rehabilitation facility, means a rehabilitation facility owned
  and operated by' and inserting `with respect to a community rehabilitation
  program, means a community rehabilitation program carried out by'.
  (h) PERSONAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES- Section 7 (29 U.S.C. 706) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (13);
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (11) and (12) as paragraphs (12) and (13),
  respectively; and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (10) the following:
  `(11) The term `personal assistance services' means a range of services,
  provided by one or more persons, designed to assist an individual with
  a disability to perform daily living activities on or off the job that
  the individual would typically perform if the individual did not have a
  disability. Such services shall be designed to increase the individual's
  control in life and ability to perform everyday activities on or off
  the job.'.
  (i) REHABILITATION TECHNOLOGY- Section 7(13) (29 U.S.C. 706(13)) (as so
  redesignated by subsection (h)(2)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `rehabilitation engineering' and inserting `rehabilitation
  technology'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `The term includes rehabilitation
  engineering, assistive technology devices, and assistive technology
  services.'.
  (j) INDIVIDUAL WITH A SEVERE DISABILITY- Section 7(15) (29 U.S.C. 706(15))
  is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A)--
  (A) by striking `subparagraph (B)' and inserting `subparagraph (B) or (C)';
  (B) in clause (i)--
  (i) by striking `disability' and inserting `impairment'; and
  (ii) by striking `employability' and inserting `an employment outcome'; and
  (C) in clause (iii), by striking `evaluation of rehabilitation potential'
  and inserting `assessment for determining eligibility and vocational
  rehabilitation needs described in subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph
  (22)'; and
  (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
  `(B) For purposes of title VII, the term `individual with a severe
  disability' means an individual with a severe physical or mental impairment
  whose ability to function independently in the family or community or whose
  ability to obtain, maintain, or advance in employment is substantially
  limited and for whom the delivery of independent living services will
  improve the ability to function, continue functioning, or move towards
  functioning independently in the family or community or to continue in
  employment, respectively.
  `(C) For purposes of section 13 and title II, the term `individual with
  a severe disability' includes an individual described in subparagraph (A)
  or (B).'.
  (k) STATE- Section 7(16) (29 U.S.C. 706(16)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(16) The term `State' includes, in addition to each of the several
  States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
  of Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa,
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of Palau
  (until the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect).'.
  (l) SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT- Section 7(18) (29 U.S.C. 706(18)) is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(18)(A) The term `supported employment' means competitive work in integrated
  work settings for individuals with the most severe disabilities--
  `(i)(I) for whom competitive employment has not traditionally occurred; or
  `(II) for whom competitive employment has been interrupted or intermittent
  as a result of a severe disability; and
  `(ii) who, because of the nature and severity of their disability, need
  intensive supported employment services or extended services in order to
  perform such work.
  `(B) Such term includes transitional employment for persons who are
  individuals with the most severe disabilities due to mental illness.'.
  (m) PUBLIC OR NONPROFIT- Section 7(19) (29 U.S.C. 706(19)) is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(19) The term `public or nonprofit', with respect to an agency or
  organization, includes an Indian tribe.'.
  (n) ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS- Section 7 (29 U.S.C. 706) (as amended by
  subsection (d)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
  paragraphs:
  `(22) The term `assessment for determining eligibility and vocational
  rehabilitation needs' means, as appropriate in each case--
  `(A)(i) a review of existing data--
  `(I) to determine whether an individual is eligible for vocational
  rehabilitation services; and
  `(II) to assign the priority described in section 101(a)(5)(A) in the
  States that use an order of selection pursuant to section 101(a)(5)(A); and
  `(ii) to the extent additional data is necessary to make such determination
  and assignment, a preliminary assessment of such data (including the
  provision of goods and services during such assessment);
  `(B) to the extent additional data is necessary, a comprehensive assessment
  (including the administration of the assessment) of the unique strengths,
  resources, priorities, interests, and needs, including the need for supported
  employment, of an eligible individual to make a determination of the goals,
  objectives, nature, and scope of vocational rehabilitation services to
  be included in the individualized written rehabilitation program of the
  individual, which comprehensive assessment--
  `(i) is limited to information that is necessary to identify the
  rehabilitation needs of the individual and to develop the rehabilitation
  program of the individual;
  `(ii) uses, as a primary source of such information, to the maximum
  extent possible and appropriate and in accordance with confidentiality
  requirements--
  `(I) existing information; and
  `(II) such information as can be provided by the individual and, where
  appropriate, by the family of the individual;
  `(iii) may include, to the degree needed to make such a determination,
  an assessment of the personality, interests, interpersonal skills,
  intelligence and related functional capacities, educational achievements,
  work experience, vocational aptitudes, personal and social adjustments, and
  employment opportunities of the individual, and the medical, psychiatric,
  psychological, and other pertinent vocational, educational, cultural,
  social, recreational, and environmental factors, that affect the employment
  and rehabilitation needs of the individual; and
  `(iv) may include an appraisal of the patterns of work behavior of the
  individual and services needed for the individual to acquire occupational
  skills, and to develop work attitudes, work habits, work tolerance, and
  social and behavior patterns necessary for successful job performance,
  including the utilization of work in real job situations to assess and
  develop the capacities of the individual to perform adequately in a work
  environment; and
  `(C)(i) referral;
  `(ii) where appropriate, the provision of rehabilitation technology services
  to an individual with a disability to assess and develop the capacities
  of the individual to perform in a work environment; and
  `(iii)(I) the provision of vocational rehabilitation services to an
  individual for a total period not in excess of 18 months for the limited
  purpose of making determinations regarding whether an individual is eligible
  for vocational rehabilitation services and regarding the nature and scope
  of vocational rehabilitation services needed for such individual; and
  `(II) an assessment at least once in every 90-day period during which such
  services are provided, of the results of the provision of such services
  to an individual to ascertain whether any of the determinations described
  in subclause (I) may be made.
  `(23) The term `assistive technology device' has the meaning given such term
  in section 3(1) of the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals With
  Disabilities Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2202(1)), except that the reference in
  such section to the term `individuals with disabilities' shall be deemed
  to mean more than one individual with a disability as defined in paragraph
  (8)(A).
  `(24) The term `assistive technology service' has the meaning given such
  term in section 3(2) of the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals
  With Disabilities Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2202(2)), except that the reference
  in such section--
  `(A) to the term `individual with a disability' shall be deemed to mean
  an individual with a disability, as defined in paragraph (8)(A); and
  `(B) to the term `individuals with disabilities' shall be deemed to mean
  more than one such individual.
  `(25) The term `community rehabilitation program' means a program that
  provides directly or facilitates the provision of vocational rehabilitation
  services to individuals with disabilities, and that provides, singly or in
  combination, for an individual with a disability to enable the individual
  to maximize opportunities for employment, including career advancement--
  `(A) medical, psychiatric, psychological, social, and vocational services
  that are provided under one management;
  `(B) testing, fitting, or training in the use of prosthetic and orthotic
  devices;
  `(C) recreational therapy;
  `(D) physical and occupational therapy;
  `(E) speech, language, and hearing therapy;
  `(F) psychiatric, psychological, and social services, including positive
  behavior management;
  `(G) assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation
  needs;
  `(H) rehabilitation technology;
  `(I) job development, placement, and retention services;
  `(J) evaluation or control of specific disabilities;
  `(K) orientation and mobility services for individuals who are blind;
  `(L) extended employment;
  `(M) psychosocial rehabilitation services;
  `(N) supported employment services and extended services;
  `(O) services to family members when necessary to the vocational
  rehabilitation of the individual;
  `(P) personal assistance services; or
  `(Q) services similar to the services described in one of subparagraphs
  (A) through (P).
  `(26) The term `disability' means--
  `(A) except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B), a physical or
  mental impairment that constitutes or results in a substantial impediment
  to employment; or
  `(B) for purposes of sections 2, 14, and 15, and titles II, III, IV, V,
  and VIII, a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
  or more major life activities.
  `(27) The term `extended services' means ongoing support services and
  other appropriate services, needed to support and maintain an individual
  with the most severe disability in supported employment, that--
  `(A) are provided singly or in combination and are organized and made
  available in such a way as to assist an eligible individual in maintaining
  integrated, competitive employment;
  `(B) are based on a determination of the needs of an eligible individual,
  as specified in an individualized written rehabilitation program; and
  `(C) are provided by a State agency, a nonprofit private organization,
  employer, or any other appropriate resource, after an individual has made
  the transition from support provided by the designated State unit.
  `(28)(A) The term `impartial hearing officer' means an individual--
  `(i) who is not an employee of a public agency (other than an administrative
  law judge, hearing examiner, or employee of an institution of higher
  education);
  `(ii) who is not a member of the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  described in section 105;
  `(iii) who has not been involved in previous decisions  regarding the
  vocational rehabilitation of the applicant or client;
  `(iv) who has knowledge of the delivery of vocational rehabilitation
  services, the State plan under section 101, and the Federal and State rules
  governing the provision of such services and training with respect to the
  performance of official duties; and
  `(v) who has no personal or financial interest that would be in conflict
  with the objectivity of the individual.
  `(B) An individual shall not be considered to be an employee of a public
  agency for purposes of subparagraph (A)(i) solely because the individual
  is paid by the agency to serve as a hearing officer.
  `(29) The term `independent living core services' means--
  `(A) information and referral services;
  `(B) independent living skills training;
  `(C) peer counseling (including cross-disability peer counseling); and
  `(D) individual and systems advocacy.
  `(30) The term `independent living services' includes--
  `(A) independent living core services; and
  `(B)(i) counseling services, including psychological, psychotherapeutic,
  and related services;
  `(ii) services related to securing housing or shelter, including services
  related to community group living, and supportive of the purposes of this
  Act and of the titles of this Act, and adaptive housing services (including
  appropriate accommodations to and modifications of any space used to serve,
  or occupied by, individuals with disabilities);
  `(iii) rehabilitation technology;
  `(iv) mobility training;
  `(v) services and training for individuals with cognitive and sensory
  disabilities, including life skills training, and interpreter and reader
  services;
  `(vi) personal assistance services, including attendant care and the
  training of personnel providing such services;
  `(vii) surveys, directories, and other activities to identify appropriate
  housing, recreation opportunities, and accessible transportation, and
  other support services;
  `(viii) consumer information programs on rehabilitation and independent
  living services available under this Act, especially for minorities and
  other individuals with disabilities who have traditionally been unserved
  or underserved by programs under this Act;
  `(ix) education and training necessary for living in a community and
  participating in community activities;
  `(x) supported living;
  `(xi) transportation, including referral and assistance for such
  transportation;
  `(xii) physical rehabilitation;
  `(xiii) therapeutic treatment;
  `(xiv) provision of needed prostheses and other appliances and devices;
  `(xv) individual and group social and recreational services;
  `(xvi) training to develop skills specifically designed for youths who
  are individuals with disabilities to promote self-awareness and esteem,
  develop advocacy and self-empowerment skills, and explore career options;
  `(xvii) services for children;
  `(xviii) services under other Federal, State, or local programs designed to
  provide resources, training, counseling, or other assistance, of substantial
  benefit in enhancing the independence, productivity, and quality of life
  of individuals with disabilities;
  `(xix) appropriate preventive services to decrease the need of individuals
  assisted under this Act for similar services in the future;
  `(xx) community awareness programs to enhance the understanding and
  integration into society of individuals with disabilities; and
  `(xxi) such other services as may be necessary and not inconsistent with
  the provisions of this Act.
  `(31)(A) The term `individuals with disabilities' means more than one
  individual with a disability.
  `(B) The term `individuals with severe disabilities' means more than one
  individual with a severe disability.
  `(C) The term `individuals with the most severe disabilities' means more
  than one individual with the most severe disability.
  `(32) The term `institution of higher education' has the meaning given
  the term in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
  U.S.C. 1141(a)).
  `(33) The term `ongoing support services' means services--
  `(A) provided to individuals with the most severe disabilities;
  `(B) provided, at a minimum, twice monthly--
  `(i) to make an assessment, regarding the employment situation, at the
  worksite of each such individual in supported employment, or, under special
  circumstances, especially at the request of the client, off site; and
  `(ii) based on the assessment, to provide for the coordination or provision
  of specific intensive services, at or away from the worksite, that are
  needed to maintain employment stability; and
  `(C) consisting of--
  `(i) a particularized assessment supplementary to the comprehensive
  assessment described in paragraph (22)(B);
  `(ii) the provision of skilled job trainers who accompany the individual
  for intensive job skill training at the work site;
  `(iii) job development and placement;
  `(iv) social skills training;
  `(v) regular observation or supervision of the individual;
  `(vi) followup services such as regular contact with the employers, the
  individuals, the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized
  representatives of the individuals, and other suitable professional and
  informed advisors, in order to reinforce and stabilize the job placement;
  `(vii) facilitation of natural supports at the worksite;
  `(viii) any other service identified in section 103; or
  `(ix) a service similar to another service described in this subparagraph.
  `(34) The term `supported employment services' means ongoing support
  services and other appropriate services needed to support and maintain an
  individual with the most severe disability in supported employment, that--
  `(A) are provided singly or in combination and are organized and made
  available in such a way to assist an eligible individual in entering or
  maintaining integrated, competitive employment;
  `(B) are based on a determination of the needs of an eligible individual,
  as specified in an individualized written rehabilitation program; and
  `(C) are provided by the designated State unit for a period of time not to
  extend beyond 18 months, unless under special circumstances the eligible
  individual and the rehabilitation counselor or coordinator jointly agree
  to extend the time in order to achieve the rehabilitation objectives
  identified in the individualized written rehabilitation program.
  `(35) The term `transition services' means a coordinated set of activities
  for a student, designed within an outcome-oriented process, that promotes
  movement from school to post school activities, including post secondary
  education, vocational training, integrated employment (including supported
  employment), continuing and adult education, adult services, independent
  living, or community participation. The coordinated set of activities
  shall be based upon the individual student's needs, taking into account
  the student's preferences and interests, and shall include instruction,
  community experiences, the development of employment and other post school
  adult living objectives, and, when appropriate, acquisition of daily living
  skills and functional vocational evaluation.'.
  (o) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 101 (29 U.S.C. 721) is amended--
  (1) by striking `clause' each place the term appears and inserting
  `paragraph';
  (2) by striking `subclause' each place the term appears and inserting
  `subparagraph'; and
  (3) by striking `clauses' and inserting `paragraphs'.
  (p) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS; INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES-
  (1) The title of the Act (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) is amended--
  (A) by striking `those with the most severe handicaps' and inserting
  `individuals with the most severe disabilities'; and
  (B) by striking `individuals with handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `individuals with disabilities'.
  (2) The table of contents relating to the Act is amended--
  (A) by striking the item relating to section 501 and inserting the following:
  `Sec. 501. Employment of individuals with disabilities.';
  (B) by striking the item relating to the title heading for title VI and
  inserting the following:
`TITLE VI--EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES';
and
  (C) by striking the item relating to the part heading for part A of title
  VI and inserting the following:
`Part A--Community Service Employment Programs for Individuals With
Disabilities'.
  (3) Section 7 (29 U.S.C. 706) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated by subsection (h)(2)) by striking
  `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities';
  (B) in paragraph (15)(A)--
  (i) by striking `severe handicaps' and inserting `a severe disability'; and
  (ii) by striking `handicaps (as defined in paragraph (8))' and inserting
  `a disability'; and
  (C) in paragraph (17) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
  (4) The last sentence of section 13 (29 U.S.C. 712) is amended by striking
  `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
  (5) Section 14(a) (29 U.S.C. 713(a)) is amended by striking `handicaps'
  and inserting `disabilities'.
  (6) Section 15 (29 U.S.C. 714) is amended--
  (A) in subsections (a) and (b) by striking `handicaps' each place such
  term appears and inserting `disabilities';
  (B) in subsection (a)(2) by striking `handicapping conditions' and inserting
  `disabilities'; and
  (C) in subsection (c) by striking `the Handicapped' and inserting
  `Individuals with Disabilities'.
  (7) Section 101(a) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1)--
  (i) by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities';
  (ii) in subparagraph (A)(i)--
  (I) by striking `the blind' each place such term appears and inserting
  `individuals who are blind'; and
  (II) by striking `the adult blind' and inserting `adults who are blind'; and
  (iii) in subparagraph (B), by striking `the blind' and inserting `individuals
  who are blind';
  (B) in paragraph (2)(B) by striking `the blind' and inserting `individuals
  who are blind';
  (C) in paragraphs (2), (4), (5), (6), (10), (11), (12), (21), and in the
  matter preceding paragraph (16), by striking `handicaps' each place such
  term appears and inserting `disabilities';
  (D) in paragraph (9) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability';
  (E) in paragraph (13)(B) by striking `with handicaps whose handicapping
  conditions arises from a disability sustained' and inserting `with a
  disability whose disability was sustained';
  (F) in paragraph (20)--
  (i) by striking `American Indians with handicaps' and inserting `American
  Indians who are individuals with disabilities'; and
  (ii) by striking `individuals with handicaps' and inserting `individuals
  with disabilities'; and
  (G) in paragraph (22)--
  (i) by striking `the deaf' and inserting `individuals who are deaf'; and
  (ii) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
  (8) Subsections (c) and (d) of section 102 (29 U.S.C. 722 (c) and (d))
  are amended by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability'.
  (9) Section 103 (29 U.S.C. 723) is amended--
  (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) in subsection (a), and in
  subsection (b)(2), by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability';
  (B) except as provided in subparagraph (A), by striking `handicaps' each
  place such term appears and inserting `disabilities';
  (C) in subsection (a)--
  (i) in subparagraph (E) of paragraph (4), by striking `suffering from'
  and inserting `with';
  (ii) in paragraph (6), by striking `deaf individuals' and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf'; and
  (iii) in paragraph (8), by striking `the blind' and inserting `individuals
  who are blind'; and
  (D) in subsection (b)(4)--
  (i) by striking `the blind' and inserting `individuals who are blind'; and
  (ii) by striking `the deaf' and inserting `individuals who are deaf'.
  (10) Section 112 (29 U.S.C. 732) is amended by striking `handicaps' each
  place such term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (11) Section 130 (29 U.S.C. 750) is amended--
  (A) in subsections (a) and (b)(1)(B) by striking `American Indians with
  handicaps' and inserting `American Indians who are individuals with
  disabilities'; and
  (B) in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking `individuals with handicaps'
  and inserting `individuals with disabilities'.
  (12) Section 202 (29 U.S.C. 761a) is amended--
  (A) by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities'; and
  (B) in subsection (c)(1) by striking `the Handicapped' and inserting
  `Disability'.
  (13) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 203 (29 U.S.C. 761b (b) and (c)) are
  amended by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities'.
  (14) Section 204 (29 U.S.C. 762) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (b)--
  (i) in paragraph (4), by striking `individuals suffering from' and inserting
  `individuals with';
  (ii) in paragraph (8)--
  (I) by striking `children with handicaps' and inserting `children who are
  individuals with disabilities'; and
  (II) by striking `American Indians with handicaps' and inserting `American
  Indians who are individuals with disabilities';
  (iii) in paragraph (10), by striking `deaf individuals' and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf'; and
  (iv) in paragraph (11)--
  (I) by striking `children with handicaps' and inserting `children who are
  individuals with disabilities'; and
  (II) by striking `children with severe handicaps' each place such
  term appears and inserting `children who are individuals with severe
  disabilities'; and
  (B) except as provided in subparagraph (A), by striking `handicaps' each
  place such term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (15) Section 300 (29 U.S.C. 770) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (2) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities';
  and
  (B) in paragraph (3)--
  (i) by striking `individuals with handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `individuals with disabilities';
  (ii) by striking `older blind individuals, and deaf individuals' and
  inserting `older individuals who are blind, and individuals who are deaf';
  (iii) by striking `workers with handicaps' and inserting `workers who are
  individuals with disabilities'; and
  (iv) by striking `farmworkers with handicaps' and inserting `farmworkers
  who are individuals with disabilities'.
  (16) Section 302 (29 U.S.C. 772) is amended--
  (A) in the section heading, by striking `HANDICAPS' and inserting
  `DISABILITIES'; and
  (B) in subsections (b) and (c) by striking `handicaps' each place such
  term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (17) Section 303(a) (29 U.S.C. 773(a)) is amended by striking `handicaps'
  and inserting `disabilities'.
  (18) Section 304 (29 U.S.C. 774) is amended--
  (A) by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities'; and
  (B) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking `handicap' and inserting
  `disability'.
  (19) Section 305(a) (29 U.S.C. 775(a)) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `disabilities'; and
  (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `the deaf' and inserting `individuals
  who are deaf'.
  (20) Subsections (f) and (h) of section 306 (29 U.S.C. 776 (f) and (h)) are
  amended by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities'.
  (21) Section 311 (29 U.S.C. 777a) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `disabilities';
  (B) in subsection (c)(1), by striking `with handicaps' and inserting
  `who are individuals with disabilities';
  (C) in subsection (d)(3), by striking `handicaps' and inserting
  `disabilities'; and
  (D) in subsection (e)--
  (i) in paragraph (1), by striking `with severe handicaps' and inserting
  `who are individuals with severe disabilities'; and
  (ii) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking `youths with severe handicaps and
  youths with mild handicaps' and inserting `youths who are individuals with
  severe disabilities and other youths with disabilities'.
  (22) Section 312 (29 U.S.C. 777b) is amended by striking `handicaps'
  each place such term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (23) Section 314 (29 U.S.C. 777d) is amended--
  (A) in the section heading, by striking `THE BLIND' and inserting
  `INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND';
  (B) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `blind persons' and inserting
  `individuals who are blind and';
  (C) in subsection (a)(2)--
  (i) by striking `available to blind persons' and inserting `available to
  individuals who are blind';
  (ii) by striking `needs of blind persons' and inserting `needs of such
  individuals'; and
  (iii) by striking `to assist blind persons' and inserting `to assist such
  individuals'; and
  (D) in paragraphs (1), (2), (5), and (6) of subsection (c), by striking
  `blind persons' and inserting `individuals who are blind'.
  (24) Section 315 (29 U.S.C. 777e) is amended--
  (A) in the section heading, by striking `THE DEAF' and inserting `INDIVIDUALS
  WHO ARE DEAF';
  (B) in subsection (a), by striking `deaf individuals' each place such term
  appears and inserting `individuals who are deaf';
  (C) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `to the maximum number of deaf
  individuals feasible' and inserting `to the maximum feasible number of
  individuals who are deaf';
  (D) in subsection (c), by striking `deaf individuals' each place such term
  appears and inserting `individuals who are deaf'; and
  (E) in subsection (d), by striking `deaf individuals' and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf and'.
  (25) Section 316(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 777f(a)(1)) is amended--
  (A) by striking `individuals with handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `individuals with disabilities'; and
  (B) by striking `peers without handicaps' and inserting `peers who are
  not individuals with disabilities'.
  (26) Section 400(a) (29 U.S.C. 780(a)) is amended by striking `handicaps'
  each place such term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (27) Section 401(a) (29 U.S.C. 781(a)) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (4), by striking `individuals with handicaps and' each
  place such term appears; and
  (B) in paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), by striking `handicaps' each place
  such term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (28) Section 403(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 783(a)(1)) is amended by striking
  `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
  (29) Section 501 (29 U.S.C. 791) is amended--
  (A) in the section heading, by striking `HANDICAPS' and inserting
  `DISABILITIES';
  (B) in subsection (a), by striking `Handicapped Employees' and inserting
  `Employees who are Individuals with Disabilities';
  (C) in subsections (a), (b), (c), (d), and (f), by striking `individuals
  with handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting `individuals
  with disabilities'; and
  (D) in subsection (b), by striking `employees with handicaps' and inserting
  `employees who are individuals with disabilities'.
  (30) Subsections (a), (c), (g), and (h) of section 502 (29 U.S.C. 792 (a),
  (c), (g), and (h)) are amended by striking `handicaps' each place such
  term appears and inserting `disabilities'.
  (31) Section 503 (29 U.S.C. 793) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), by striking `handicaps as defined in section 7(8)'
  and inserting `disabilities'; and
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) by striking `individual with handicaps' and inserting `individual with
  a disability'; and
  (ii) by striking `individuals with handicaps' each place such term appears
  and inserting `individuals with disabilities'.
  (32) Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794) is amended in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `a disability'; and
  (B) by striking `handicap' and inserting `disability'.
  (33) Title VI is amended in the title heading by striking `HANDICAPS'
  and inserting `DISABILITIES'.
  (34) Section 601 (29 U.S.C. 701 note) is amended by striking `Handicaps'
  and inserting `Disabilities'.
  (35) Part A of title VI is amended in the part heading, by striking
  `HANDICAPS' and inserting `DISABILITIES'.
  (36) Subsections (a) and (b) of section 611 (29 U.S.C. 795 (a) and (b)) are
  amended by striking `handicaps' each place such term appears and inserting
  `disabilities'.
  (37) Section 615(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 795d(a)(1)) is amended by striking
  `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
  (38) Section 616(2) (29 U.S.C. 795e(2)) is amended, by striking `handicaps'
  and inserting `disabilities'.
  (39) Section 622 (29 U.S.C. 795h) is amended--
  (A) in the section heading, by striking `HANDICAPS' and inserting
  `DISABILITIES'; and
  (B) by striking `handicaps' and inserting `disabilities'.
SEC. 103. ALLOTMENT PERCENTAGE.
  Section 8(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 707(a)(1))  is amended--
  (1) by striking `The' and inserting `For purposes of section 110, the'; and
  (2) by striking `and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands' and
  inserting `and the Republic of Palau (until the Compact of Free Association
  with Palau takes effect)'.
SEC. 104. NONDUPLICATION.
  The second sentence of section 10 (29 U.S.C. 709) is amended by striking
  `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting `community rehabilitation
  programs'.
SEC. 105. ADMINISTRATION OF THE ACT.
  (a) TRAINING- Section 12(a)(2) (29 U.S.C. 711(a)(2)) is amended by inserting
  before the semicolon the following: `, including training for the personnel
  of community rehabilitation programs, centers for independent living,
  and other providers of services (including job coaches)'.
  (b) ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS- Section 12 (29 U.S.C. 711) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
  `(d) The Secretary shall promulgate regulations regarding the requirements
  for the implementation of an order of selection for vocational rehabilitation
  services under section 101(a)(5)(A) if such services cannot be provided
  to all eligible individuals with disabilities who apply for such services.
  `(e)(1) Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of the
  Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, the Secretary shall receive public
  comment and promulgate regulations establishing criteria pertaining to
  the selection of vocational rehabilitation services, and of vocational
  rehabilitation services providers, by an individual with a disability,
  consistent with the individualized written rehabilitation program of the
  individual under section 102.
  `(2) Regulations under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
  `(A) Procedures that States must adopt to ensure that the services provided
  under this Act are of sufficient scope and quality, that the costs of such
  services and the length of time such services are provided are reasonable,
  and that such services are available in a timely manner.
  `(B) Procedures that prevent fraud, waste, and abuse.
  `(C) Procedures to assure that services are provided in the most integrated
  settings.
  `(D) Procedures to assure that rehabilitation providers comply with State
  guarantees, such as--
  `(i) affirmative action procedures with respect to the employment of
  individuals with disabilities;
  `(ii) standards governing community rehabilitation programs and qualified
  personnel utilized for the provision of vocational rehabilitation services;
  and
  `(iii) minimum standards to ensure the availability of personnel, to the
  maximum extent feasible, trained to communicate in the native language or
  mode of communication of the client.
  `(E) Standards to be adhered to by providers to help ensure the integrity
  of services.
  `(F) Guidelines for assisting individuals with disabilities and for providing
  information about available vocational rehabilitation service providers,
  especially for assisting--
  `(i) individuals with cognitive and other disabilities who, due to the nature
  of the disability, require support and assistance in fully implementing
  the selection and procurement of services; and
  `(ii) the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized
  representatives of the individuals.'.
SEC. 106. REPORTS.
  The fourth sentence of section 13 (29 U.S.C. 712) is amended by inserting
  `including types of rehabilitation technology services provided,' after
  `types of services provided,'.
SEC. 107. EVALUATION.
  Section 14 (29 U.S.C. 713) is amended--
  (1)(A) by striking `Commissioner' the first place such term appears and
  inserting `Secretary, in consultation with the Commissioner,'; and
  (B) except as provided in subparagraph (A), by striking `Commissioner'
  each place such term appears and inserting `Secretary';
  (2) in the third sentence of subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `program and' and inserting `program,';
  (B) by striking `and the characteristics' and inserting `, the
  characteristics'; and
  (C) by inserting before the period `, and the employment outcomes to
  be attained';
  (3) in subsection (b) by striking `shall,' and all that follows through
  `obtain' and inserting `shall obtain'; and
  (4)(A) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
  (B) by inserting after subsection (e) the following subsection:
  `(f)(1) To assess the linkages between vocational rehabilitation services and
  economic and noneconomic outcomes, the Secretary shall continue to conduct
  a longitudinal study of a national sample of applicants for the services.
  `(2) The study shall address factors related to attrition and completion
  of the program through which the services are provided and factors within
  and outside the program affecting results.  Appropriate comparisons shall
  be used to contrast the experiences of similar persons who do not obtain
  the services.
  `(3) The study shall be planned to cover the period beginning on the
  application of the individuals for the services, through the eligibility
  determination and provision of services for the individuals, and a further
  period of not less than 2 years after the termination of services.'.
SEC. 108. REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
  (a) TRANSFERS- Section 16(b) (29 U.S.C. 715(b)) is amended by striking
  `one-half of'.
  (b) COMPENSATION- Section 18 (29 U.S.C. 717) is amended by striking `the
  rate provided for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 5332'
  and inserting `the daily equivalent of the rate of pay for level 4 of the
  Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382'.
SEC. 109. CARRYOVER.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after section 18 (29
  U.S.C. 717) the following new section:
`SEC. 19. CARRYOVER.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), and notwithstanding
  any other provision of law, any funds appropriated for a fiscal year to
  carry out any grant program under part B or C of title I, section 509,
  part C of title VI, or part B or C of chapter 1 of title VII, that are
  not obligated and expended by recipients prior to the beginning of the
  succeeding fiscal year shall remain available for obligation and expenditure
  by such recipients during such succeeding fiscal year.
  `(b) NON-FEDERAL SHARE- Such funds shall remain available for obligation and
  expenditure by a recipient as provided in subsection (a) only to the extent
  that the recipient complied with any Federal share requirements applicable
  to the program for the fiscal year for which the funds were appropriated.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 18 the following:
`Sec. 19. Carryover.'.
SEC. 110. CLIENT ASSISTANCE INFORMATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after section 19 (as added
  by section 109(a)) the following new section:
`SEC. 20. CLIENT ASSISTANCE INFORMATION.
  `All programs, including community rehabilitation programs, and projects,
  that provide services to individuals with disabilities under this Act
  shall advise such individuals, or the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals, of the
  availability and purposes of the client assistance program under section 112,
  including information on means of seeking assistance under such program.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 19 (as added by
  section 109(b)) the following:
`Sec. 20. Client assistance information.'.
SEC. 111. TRADITIONALLY UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after section 20 (as added
  by section 110(a)) the following section:
`SEC. 21. TRADITIONALLY UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS.
  `(a) FINDINGS- With respect to the programs authorized in titles II through
  VIII, the Congress finds as follows:
  `(1) RACIAL PROFILE- The racial profile of America is rapidly changing. While
  the rate of increase for white Americans is 3.2 percent, the rate of increase
  for racial and ethnic minorities is much higher: 38.6 percent for Latinos,
  14.6 percent for African-Americans, and 40.1 percent for Asian-Americans
  and other ethnic groups. By the year 2000, the Nation will have 260,000,000
  people, one of every three of whom will be either African-American, Latino,
  or Asian-American.
  `(2) RATE OF DISABILITY- Ethnic and racial minorities tend to have disabling
  conditions at a disproportionately high rate. The rate of work-related
  disability for American Indians is about one and one-half times that of
  the general population. African-Americans are also one and one-half times
  more likely to be disabled than whites and twice as likely to be severely
  disabled.
  `(3) INEQUITABLE TREATMENT- Patterns of inequitable treatment of
  minorities have been documented in all major junctures of the vocational
  rehabilitation process. As compared to white Americans, a larger percentage
  of African-American applicants to the vocational rehabilitation system is
  denied acceptance. Of applicants accepted for service, a larger percentage
  of African-American cases is closed without being rehabilitated. Minorities
  are provided less training than their white counterparts. Consistently,
  less money is spent on minorities than on their white counterparts.
  `(4) RECRUITMENT- Recruitment efforts within vocational rehabilitation at
  the level of pre-service training, continuing education, and in-service
  training must focus on bringing larger numbers of minorities into the
  profession in order to provide appropriate practitioner knowledge, role
  models, and sufficient manpower to address the clearly changing demography
  of vocational rehabilitation.
  `(b) OUTREACH TO MINORITIES-
  `(1) POLICY- The Commissioner shall develop a policy to mobilize the
  resources of the Nation to prepare minorities for careers in vocational
  rehabilitation, independent living, and related services.
  `(2) FOCUS- This policy shall focus on--
  `(A) the recruitment of minorities into the field of vocational
  rehabilitation counseling and related disciplines; and
  `(B) financially assisting Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
  Hispanic-serving institutions of higher education, and other institutions
  of higher education whose minority enrollment is at least 50 percent to
  prepare students for vocational rehabilitation and related service careers.
  `(3) PLAN-
  `(A) DEVELOPMENT- The Commissioner shall develop a plan to provide outreach
  services and other related activities (such as cooperative efforts) to the
  entities described in subparagraph (B) in order to enhance the capacity
  and increase the participation of such entities in competitions for grants,
  contracts, and cooperative agreements under titles I through VIII.
  `(B) ENTITIES- The entities referred to in subparagraph (A) are--
  `(i) Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-serving
  institutions of higher education, and other institutions of higher education
  whose minority student enrollment is at least 50 percent;
  `(ii) nonprofit and for-profit agencies at least 51 percent owned or
  controlled by one or more minority individuals; and
  `(iii) underrepresented populations.
  `(C) FUNDING- For the purpose of implementing the plan required in
  subparagraph (A), the Commissioner shall, for each of the fiscal years
  1993 through 1997, expend 1 percent of the funds appropriated for the
  fiscal year involved for carrying out programs authorized in titles II
  through VIII of this Act, except programs authorized under title IV or V.
  `(3) EFFORT- The Commissioner shall exercise the utmost authority,
  resourcefulness, and diligence to meet the requirements of this section.
  `(4) REPORT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Not later than January 31 of each year, starting with
  fiscal year 1994, the Commissioner shall prepare and submit to Congress
  a final report on the progress toward meeting the goals of this section
  during the preceding fiscal year.
  `(B) CONTENTS- The report shall include--
  `(i) a full explanation of any progress toward meeting the goals of this
  section; and
  `(ii) a plan to meet the goals, if necessary.
  `(5) DEMONSTRATION- In awarding grants, contracts, or cooperative
  agreements under titles I, II, III, VI, VII, and VIII, and section 509,
  the Commissioner and the Director of the National Institute on Disability
  and Rehabilitation Research, where appropriate, shall require applicants
  to demonstrate how they will address, in whole or in part, the needs of
  individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 20 (as added by
  section 110(b)) the following item:
`Sec. 21. Traditionally underserved populations.'.
Subtitle B--Vocational Rehabilitation Services
SEC. 121. POLICY; AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) FINDINGS; PURPOSE; POLICY- Section 100 (29 U.S.C. 720) is amended--
  (1) in the section heading, by striking `PURPOSE' and inserting `POLICY'; and
  (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
  `(a)(1) Congress finds that--
  `(A) work--
  `(i) is a valued activity, both for individuals and society; and
  `(ii) fulfills the need of an individual to be productive, promotes
  independence, enhances self-esteem, and allows for participation in the
  mainstream of life in America;
  `(B) as a group, individuals with disabilities experience staggering levels
  of unemployment and poverty;
  `(C) individuals with disabilities, including individuals with the most
  severe disabilities, have demonstrated their ability to achieve gainful
  employment in integrated settings if appropriate services and supports
  are provided;
  `(D) reasons for the significant number of individuals with disabilities
  not working, or working at a level not commensurate with their abilities
  and capabilities, include--
  `(i) discrimination;
  `(ii) lack of accessible and available transportation;
  `(iii)  fear of losing health coverage under the medicare and medicaid
  programs under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395 et seq. and 1396 et seq.) or fear of losing existing private
  health insurance; and
  `(iv) lack of education, training, and supports to meet job qualification
  standards necessary to enter or retain or advance in  employment;
  `(E) enforcement of title V and of the Americans with Disabilities Act of
  1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) holds the promise of ending discrimination
  for individuals with disabilities; and
  `(F) the provision of vocational rehabilitation services can enable
  individuals with disabilities, including individuals with the most severe
  disabilities, to pursue meaningful careers by securing gainful employment
  commensurate with their abilities and capabilities.
  `(2) The purpose of this title is to assist States in operating
  a comprehensive, coordinated, effective, efficient, and accountable
  program of vocational rehabilitation that is designed to assess, plan,
  develop, and provide vocational rehabilitation services for individuals
  with disabilities, consistent with their strengths, resources, priorities,
  concerns, abilities, and capabilities, so that such individuals may prepare
  for and engage in gainful employment.
  `(3) It is the policy of the United States that such a program shall be
  carried out in a manner consistent with the following principles:
  `(A) Individuals with disabilities, including individuals with the most
  severe disabilities, are generally presumed to be capable of engaging
  in gainful employment and the provision of individualized vocational
  rehabilitation services can improve their ability to become gainfully
  employed.
  `(B) Individuals with disabilities must be provided the opportunities to
  obtain gainful employment in integrated settings.
  `(C) Individuals with disabilities must be active participants in their
  own rehabilitation programs, including making meaningful and informed
  choices about the selection of their vocational goals and objectives and
  the vocational rehabilitation services they receive.
  `(D) Families and natural supports can play an important role in the
  success of a vocational rehabilitation program, if the individual with a
  disability requests, desires, or needs such supports.
  `(E) Qualified vocational rehabilitation counselors, other qualified
  rehabilitation personnel, and other qualified personnel facilitate the
  accomplishment of the employment goals and objectives of an individual.
  `(F) Individuals with disabilities and their advocates are full partners
  in the vocational rehabilitation program and must be involved on a regular
  basis and in a meaningful manner with respect to policy development and
  implementation.
  `(G) Accountability measures must facilitate and not impede the
  accomplishment of the goals and objectives of the program, including
  providing vocational rehabilitation services to, among others, individuals
  with the most severe disabilities.'.
  (b) REAUTHORIZATION- Section 100 (29 U.S.C. 720) is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b)(1) For the purpose of making grants to States under part B (other
  than grants under section 112) to assist States in meeting the costs of
  vocational rehabilitation services provided in accordance with State plans
  under section 101, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
  be necessary for fiscal years 1993 through 1997, except that the amount to
  be appropriated for a fiscal year shall not be less than the amount of the
  appropriation under this subsection for the immediately preceding fiscal
  year, plus the amount of the Consumer Price Index addition determined
  under subsection (c) for the immediately preceding fiscal year.
  `(2) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out part C such sums
  as may be necessary for fiscal years 1993 through 1997.';
  (2) in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(2), by striking
  `authorized to be appropriated under subsection (b)(1) for the subsequent
  fiscal year is the amount authorized to be' each place the term appears
  and inserting `to be appropriated under subsection (b) for the subsequent
  fiscal year shall be at least the amount'; and
  (3) in subsection (d)(1)(B)--
  (A) by striking `1992' the first place the term appears and inserting
  `1997'; and
  (B) by striking `or the amount authorized to be appropriated for such
  program for fiscal year 1992, whichever is higher,'.
  (c) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the item relating to section 100 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 100. Declaration of policy; authorization of appropriations.'.
SEC. 122. STATE PLANS.
  (a) PERIOD- The first sentence of section 101(a) (29 U.S.C. 721(a))
  is amended by striking `for a three-year period' and all that follows
  and inserting the following: `for a 3-year period, or shall submit the
  plan on such date, and at such regular intervals, as the Secretary may
  determine to be appropriate to coincide with the intervals at which the
  State submits State plans under other Federal laws, such as part B of the
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.). In
  order to be eligible to participate in programs under this title, a State,
  upon the request of the Commissioner, shall make such annual revisions in
  the plan as may be necessary.'.
  (b) STATE AGENCY- Section 101(a)(1)(A) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(1)(A)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of clause (i); and
  (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following: `, and
  (iii) in the case of American Samoa, the appropriate State agency shall
  be the Governor of American Samoa'.
  (c) PLANS; POLICIES; METHODS- Section 101(a)(5) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(5))
  is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A)--
  (A) by striking `existing rehabilitation facilities to the maximum extent
  feasible;' and inserting `community rehabilitation programs to the maximum
  extent feasible, an explanation of the methods by which the State will
  provide vocational rehabilitation services to all individuals with
  disabilities within the State who are eligible for such services,'; and
  (B) in clause (ii), by inserting before `and shall be consistent' the
  following: `in accordance with criteria established by the State,';
  (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
  `, including the use of funds under part C of title VI to supplement
  funds under part B of this title to pay for the cost of services leading
  to supported employment'; and
  (3) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following:
  `(C) describe--
  `(i) how a broad range of rehabilitation technology services will be
  provided at each stage of the rehabilitation process;
  `(ii) how a broad range of such rehabilitation technology services will
  be provided on a statewide basis; and
  `(iii) the training that will be provided to vocational rehabilitation
  counselors, client assistance personnel, and other related services
  personnel;'.
  (d) PROGRAM COMPLIANCE- Section 101(a)(6)(B) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(6)(B))
  is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:
  `, with section 504 of this Act, and with the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990'.
  (e) PERSONNEL- Section 101(a)(7) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(7)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(7)(A) include a description (consistent with the purposes of this Act)
  of a comprehensive system of personnel development, which shall include--
  `(i) a description of the procedures and activities the State agency will
  undertake to ensure an adequate supply of qualified State rehabilitation
  professionals and paraprofessionals for the designated State unit,
  including the development and maintenance of a system for determining,
  on an annual basis--
  `(I) the number and type of personnel that are employed by the State agency
  in the provision of vocational rehabilitation services, including ratios
  of counselors to clients; and
  `(II) the number and type of personnel needed by the State, and a projection
  of the numbers of such personnel that will be needed in 5 years, based
  on projections of the number of individuals to be served, the number of
  such personnel who are expected to retire or leave the field, and other
  relevant factors;
  `(ii) where appropriate, a description of the manner in which activities
  will be undertaken through this section to coordinate the system of
  personnel development with personnel development under the Individuals
  with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.);
  `(iii) a description of the development and maintenance of a system of
  determining, on an annual basis, information on the institutions of higher
  education within the State that are preparing rehabilitation professionals,
  including--
  `(I) the numbers of students enrolled in such programs; and
  `(II) the number who graduated with certification or licensure, or with
  credentials to qualify for certification or licensure, during the past year;
  `(iv) a description of the development, updating, and implementation of
  a plan that--
  `(I) will address the current and projected vocational rehabilitation
  services personnel training needs for the designated State unit; and
  `(II) provides for the coordination and facilitation of efforts between the
  designated State unit and institutions of higher education (as defined in
  section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)))
  and professional associations to recruit, prepare and retain qualified
  personnel, including personnel from minority backgrounds, and personnel
  who are individuals with disabilities; and
  `(v) a description of the procedures and activities the State agency will
  undertake to ensure that all personnel employed by the designated State
  unit are appropriately and adequately trained and prepared, including--
  `(I) a system for the continuing education of rehabilitation professionals
  and paraprofessionals within the designated State unit, particularly with
  respect to rehabilitation technology; and
  `(II) procedures for acquiring and disseminating to rehabilitation
  professionals and paraprofessionals within the designated State unit
  significant knowledge from research and other sources, including procedures
  for providing training regarding the amendments to the Rehabilitation Act
  of 1973 made by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992;
  `(B) set forth policies and procedures relating to the establishment and
  maintenance of standards to ensure that personnel, including professionals
  and paraprofessionals, needed within the State agency to carry out this
  part are appropriately and adequately prepared and trained, including--
  `(i) the establishment and maintenance of standards that are consistent
  with any national or State approved or recognized certification, licensing,
  registration, or other comparable requirements that apply to the area in
  which such personnel are providing vocational rehabilitation services; and
  `(ii) to the extent such standards are not based on the highest requirements
  in the State applicable to a specific profession or discipline, the steps
  the State is taking to require the retraining or hiring of personnel within
  the designated State unit that meet appropriate professional requirements
  in the State; and
  `(C) contain provisions relating to the establishment and maintenance
  of minimum standards to ensure the availability of personnel within
  the designated State unit, to the maximum extent feasible, trained to
  communicate in the native language or mode of communication of the client;'.
  (f) AVAILABILITY OF COMPARABLE SERVICES AND BENEFITS- Section 101(a)(8) (29
  U.S.C. 721(a)(8)) is amended by striking `except that' and all that follows
  and inserting `except that such a determination shall not be required--
  `(A) if the determination would delay the provision of such services to
  any individual at extreme medical risk; or
  `(B) prior to the provision of such services if an immediate job placement
  would be lost due to a delay in the provision of such comparable benefits;'.
  (g) USE OF EXISTING INFORMATION- Section 101(a)(9) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(9))
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C) as subparagraphs (B)
  through (D), respectively;
  (2) by striking `(9) provide that' and inserting `(9) provide that--
  `(A) to the maximum extent appropriate, and consistent with the requirements
  of this Act, existing information available from other programs and
  providers (particularly information used by education officials and the
  Social Security Administration) and information that can be provided by
  the individual with a disability or the family of the individual shall be
  used for purposes of determining eligibility for vocational rehabilitation
  services and for choosing rehabilitation goals, objectives, and services;';
  (3) in subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) (as so redesignated by paragraph
  (1) of this subsection), by indenting the subparagraphs to the same measure
  as subparagraph (A); and
  (4) in subparagraphs (B) and (C) (as so redesignated), by striking the
  comma at the end and inserting a semicolon.
  (h) REPORTS- Section 101(a)(10) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(10)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(A)' after the paragraph designation;
  (2) in subparagraph (A) (as so designated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection), by adding `and' after the semicolon at the end; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following subparagraph:
  `(B) provide that reports under subparagraph (A) will include information
  on--
  `(i) the number of such individuals who are evaluated and the number
  rehabilitated;
  `(ii) the costs of administration, counseling, provision of direct services,
  development of community rehabilitation programs, and other functions
  carried out under this Act; and
  `(iii) the utilization by such individuals of other programs pursuant to
  paragraph (11);'.
  (i) INTERAGENCY COOPERATION- Section 101(a)(11) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(11))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `(11) provide for entering into cooperative arrangements'
  and inserting `(11)(A) provide for interagency cooperation';
  (2) in subparagraph (A) (as so designated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection) by striking `, and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational Education
  Act);' and inserting  `(20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.), the Carl D. Perkins
  Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.),
  and the Act entitled `An Act to create a Committee on Purchases of Blind-made
  Products, and for other purposes', approved June 25, 1938 (commonly known
  as the Wagner-O'Day Act; 41 U.S.C. 46 et seq.);'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(B) provide that cooperation under subparagraph (A) shall include, to the
  extent practicable, means for providing training to staff of the agencies
  described in subparagraph (A) as to the availability and benefits of, and
  eligibility standards for, vocational rehabilitation services, in order
  to enhance the opportunity of individuals receiving the services described
  in subparagraph (A) to obtain vocational rehabilitation services; and
  `(C) in providing for interagency cooperation under subparagraph (A),
  provide for such cooperation by means including, if appropriate--
  `(i) establishing interagency working groups; and
  `(ii) entering into formal interagency cooperative agreements that--
  `(I) identify policies, practices, and procedures that can be coordinated
  among the agencies (particularly definitions, standards for eligibility,
  the joint sharing and use of evaluations and assessments, and procedures
  for making referrals);
  `(II) identify available resources and define the financial responsibility
  of each agency for paying for necessary services (consistent with State law)
  and procedures for resolving disputes between agencies; and
  `(III) include all additional components necessary to ensure meaningful
  cooperation and coordination;'.
  (j) COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS- Section 101(a)(12) (29
  U.S.C. 721(a)(12)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `facilities' and inserting `programs';
  and
  (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and
  inserting `community rehabilitation programs'.
  (k) CONTINUING STATEWIDE STUDIES- Section 101(a) (29 U.S.C. 721(a))
  is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (16) by striking `provide for
  continuing' and inserting `(15) provide for continuing'; and
  (2) in paragraph (15) (as so designated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `conducting';
  (B) in subparagraph (B)--
  (i) by striking `capacity and condition of rehabilitation facilities, plans
  for improving such facilities,' and inserting `capacity and effectiveness of
  community rehabilitation programs, plans for improving such programs,'; and
  (ii) by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
  (C) in subparagraph (C), by inserting `and' after the semicolon at the
  end; and
  (D) by adding at the end the following subparagraph:
  `(D) outreach procedures to identify and serve individuals with disabilities
  who are minorities and individuals with disabilities who have been unserved
  or underserved by the vocational rehabilitation system;'.
  (l) REVIEW AND EFFORTS- Section 101(a)(16) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(16)) is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(16) provide for--
  `(A)(i) at least annual review and reevaluation of the status of each
  individual with a disability placed in an extended employment setting in a
  community rehabilitation program (including a workshop) or other employment
  under section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 214(c)),
  to determine the interests, priorities, and needs of the individual for
  employment, or training for competitive employment, in an integrated
  setting in the labor market; and
  `(ii) input into the review and reevaluation by the individual with
  a disability, or, in an appropriate case, a parent, a family member, a
  guardian, an advocate, or an authorized representative, of the individual,
  if the individual requests, desires, or needs assistance;
  `(B) maximum efforts, including the identification of vocational
  rehabilitation services, reasonable accommodations, and other support
  services, to enable such an individual to benefit from training or to be
  placed in employment in an integrated setting; and
  `(C) services designed to promote movement from extended employment to
  integrated employment, including supported employment, independent living,
  and community participation;'.
  (m) CONSTRUCTION- Section 101(a)(17) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(17)) is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `where such State
  plan includes provisions for the construction of rehabilitation facilities'
  and inserting `if, under special circumstances, the State plan includes
  provisions for the construction of facilities for community rehabilitation
  programs'; and
  (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and
  inserting `facilities for community rehabilitation programs'.
  (n) VIEWS CONSIDERED- Section 101(a)(18) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(18)) is amended by
  striking `and providers of vocational rehabilitation services' and inserting
  `providers of vocational rehabilitation services, and the Director of the
  client assistance program under section 112'.
  (o) STRATEGIC PLAN- Section 101(a)(19) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(19)) is amended
  by inserting before the semicolon the following: `, and for developing
  and updating the strategic plan required under part C'.
  (p) PUBLIC COMMENT- Section 101(a)(23) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(23)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting after `comment on the State plan'
  the following: `before development of the plan by the State';
  (2) by striking `and' before `(B)'; and
  (3) by inserting before the semicolon the following: `, and (C) provide
  satisfactory assurances that the State agency will consult with the Director
  of the client assistance program under section 112 in the formulation of
  policies governing the provision of vocational rehabilitation services
  consistent with the State plan and other revisions'.
  (q) GOALS AND PUBLIC EDUCATION- Section 101(a)(24) (29 U.S.C. 721(a)(24))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(24) contain plans, policies, and procedures to be followed (including
  entering into a formal interagency cooperative agreement, in accordance
  with paragraph (11)(C)(ii), with education officials responsible for
  the provision of a free appropriate public education to students who are
  individuals with disabilities) that are designed to--
  `(A) facilitate the development and accomplishment of--
  `(i) long-term rehabilitation goals;
  `(ii) intermediate rehabilitation objectives; and
  `(iii) goals and objectives related to enabling a student to live
  independently before the student leaves a school setting,
to the extent the goals and objectives described in clauses (i) through
(iii) are included in an individualized education program of the student,
including the specification of plans for coordination with the educational
agencies in the provision of transition services;
  `(B) facilitate the transition from the provision of a free appropriate
  public education under the responsibility of an educational agency to the
  provision of vocational rehabilitation services under the responsibility
  of the designated State unit, including the specification of plans for
  coordination with educational agencies in the provision of transition
  services authorized under section 103(a)(14) to an individual, consistent
  with the individualized written rehabilitation program of the individual; and
  `(C) provide that such plans, policies, and procedures will address--
  `(i) provisions for determining State lead agencies and qualified personnel
  responsible for transition services;
  `(ii) procedures for outreach to and identification of youth in need of
  such services; and
  `(iii) a timeframe for evaluation and followup of youth who have received
  such services;'.
  (r) USE OF SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT FUNDS- Section 101(a)(25) (29
  U.S.C. 721(a)(25)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(25) provide assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the State has
  an acceptable plan for carrying out part C of title VI, including the use
  of funds under that part to supplement funds under part B of this title
  for the cost of services leading to supported employment;'.
  (s) ADDITIONAL STATE PLAN REQUIREMENTS- Section 101(a) (29 U.S.C. 721(a))
  is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(26) describe the manner in which on-the-job or other related personal
  assistance services will be provided to assist individuals with disabilities
  while the individuals are receiving vocational rehabilitation services;
  `(27) describe the manner in which cooperative agreements with private
  nonprofit vocational rehabilitation service providers will be established;
  `(28) identify the needs and utilization of community rehabilitation programs
  under the Act commonly known as the Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46 et seq.);
  `(29) describe the manner in which individuals with disabilities will
  be given choice and increased control in determining their vocational
  rehabilitation goals and objectives;
  `(30) describe the manner in which students who are individuals with
  disabilities and who are not in special education programs can access and
  receive vocational rehabilitation services, where appropriate;
  `(31) describe the manner in which assistive technology devices and
  services will be provided, or worksite assessments will be made as part of
  the assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation
  needs of an individual;
  `(32) describe the manner in which the State will modify the policies and
  procedures of the State based on consumer satisfaction surveys conducted
  by the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council;
  `(33) provide for coordination and working relationships with the Statewide
  Independent Living Council established under section 705 and independent
  living centers within the State;
  `(34) provide satisfactory assurances to the Commissioner that the State--
  `(A) has developed and implemented a strategic plan for expanding
  and improving vocational rehabilitation services for individuals with
  disabilities on a statewide basis in accordance with part C of this
  title; and
  `(B) will use at least 1.5 percent of the allotment of the State under
  part B for the uses described in section 123;
  `(35)(A) describe how the system for evaluating the performance of
  rehabilitation counselors, coordinators, and other personnel used in the
  State facilitates the accomplishment of the purpose and policy of this
  title, including the policy of serving, among others, individuals with
  the most severe disabilities; and
  `(B) provide satisfactory assurances that the system in no way impedes
  such accomplishment; and
  `(36) provide satisfactory assurances to the Commissioner that--
  `(A)(i) the State has established a State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  that meets the criteria set forth in section 105;
  `(ii) the designated State agency and the designated State unit seek
  and seriously consider on a regular and ongoing basis advice from the
  Council regarding the development and implementation of the State plan
  and the strategic plan and amendments to the plans, and other policies
  and procedures of general applicability pertaining to the provision of
  vocational rehabilitation services in the State;
  `(iii) the designated State agency includes, in its State plan or an
  amendment to the plan, a summary of advice provided by the Council,
  including recommendations from the annual report of the Council, the survey
  of consumer satisfaction, and other reports prepared by the Council, and the
  response of the designated State agency to such advice and recommendations
  (including explanations with respect to advice and recommendations that
  were rejected); and
  `(iv) the designated State unit transmits to the Council--
  `(I) all plans, reports, and other information required under the Act to
  be submitted to the Commissioner;
  `(II) all policies, practices, and procedures of general applicability
  provided to or used by rehabilitation personnel; and
  `(III) copies of due process hearing decisions, which shall be transmitted
  in such a manner as to preserve the confidentiality of the participants
  in the hearings;
  `(B) an independent commission--
  `(i) is responsible under State law for overseeing the operation of the
  designated State agency;
  `(ii) is consumer-controlled by persons who--
  `(I) are individuals with physical or mental impairments that substantially
  limit major life activities; and
  `(II) represent individuals with a broad range of disabilities;
  `(iii) includes individuals representing family members, advocates, and
  authorized representatives of individuals with mental impairments; and
  `(iv) undertakes the function set forth in section 105(c)(3); or
  `(C) in the case of a State that, under section 101(a)(1)(A)(i), designates a
  State agency to administer the part of the State plan under which vocational
  rehabilitation services are provided for individuals who are blind and
  designates a separate State agency to administer the remainder of the
  State plan--
  `(i) an independent commission is responsible under State law for overseeing
  both such agencies and meets the requirements of subparagraph (B)(ii); or
  `(ii)(I) an independent commission is responsible under State law for
  overseeing the first agency described in this subparagraph and meets the
  requirements of subparagraph (B)(ii); and
  `(II) an independent commission is responsible under State law for overseeing
  the second State agency described in this subparagraph and is required by
  such State law to be consumer-controlled by individuals who are blind and
  to represent individuals who are blind.'.
  (t) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 101 (29 U.S.C. 721) is amended by striking
  subsections (c) and (d).
SEC. 123. DETERMINATIONS OF ELIGIBILITY AND INDIVIDUALIZED WRITTEN
REHABILITATION PROGRAM.
  (a) ELIGIBILITY- Section 102(a) (29 U.S.C. 722(a)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a)(1) An individual is eligible for assistance under this title if
  the individual--
  `(A) is an individual with a disability under section 7(8)(A); and
  `(B) requires vocational rehabilitation services to prepare for, enter,
  engage in, or retain gainful employment.
  `(2) An individual who has a disability or is blind as determined pursuant
  to title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 401 et
  seq. and 1381 et seq.) shall be considered to have--
  `(A) a physical or mental impairment which for such individual constitutes or
  results in a substantial impediment to employment under section 7(8)(A)(i);
  and
  `(B) a severe physical or mental impairment which seriously limits one
  or more functional capacities in terms of an employment outcome under
  section 7(15)(A)(i).
  `(3) Determinations made by officials of other agencies, particularly the
  education officials described in section 101(a)(24), regarding whether an
  individual satisfies one or more factors relating to whether an individual
  is an individual with a disability under section 7(8)(A) or an individual
  with a severe disability under section 7(15)(A), shall be used (to the
  extent appropriate and available and consistent with the requirements
  under this Act) for making such determinations under this Act.
  `(4)(A) It shall be presumed that an individual can benefit in terms of an
  employment outcome from vocational rehabilitation services under section
  7(8)(A)(ii), unless the designated State unit can demonstrate by clear
  and convincing evidence that such individual is incapable of benefiting
  from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment outcome.
  `(B) In making the demonstration required under subparagraph (A) with
  respect to cases in which the issue concerns the severity of the disability
  of an individual, the designated State unit shall first conduct an extended
  evaluation by providing the services described in subparagraph (C)(iii)(I),
  and conducting the assessment described in subparagraph (C)(iii)(II),
  of section 7(22).
  `(5)(A) The designated State unit shall determine whether an individual is
  eligible for vocational rehabilitation services under this title within
  a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 60 days after the individual
  has submitted an application to receive the services unless--
  `(i) the designated State unit notifies the individual that exceptional
  and unforeseen circumstances beyond the control of the agency preclude
  the agency from completing the determination within the prescribed time
  and the individual agrees that an extension of time is warranted; or
  `(ii) such an extended evaluation is required.
  `(B) The determination of eligibility shall be based on the review
  of existing data described in section 7(22)(A)(i), and, to the extent
  necessary, the preliminary assessment described in section 7(22)(A)(iii).
  `(6) The designated State unit shall ensure that a determination of
  ineligibility made with respect to an individual prior to the initiation
  of an individualized written rehabilitation program, based on the review,
  and to the extent necessary, the preliminary assessment, shall include
  specification of--
  `(A) the reasons for such a determination;
  `(B) the rights and remedies available to the individual, including, if
  appropriate, recourse to the processes set forth in subsections (b)(2)
  and (d); and
  `(C) the availability of services provided by the client assistance program
  under section 112 to the individual.'.
  (b) INDIVIDUALIZED WRITTEN REHABILITATION PROGRAM- Section 102(b) (29
  U.S.C. 722(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1)(A) As soon as a determination has been made that an individual is
  eligible for vocational rehabilitation services, the designated State unit
  shall complete an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational
  rehabilitation needs described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section 7(22)
  (if such assessment is necessary) and ensure that--
  `(i) an individualized written rehabilitation program is jointly developed,
  agreed upon, and signed by--
  `(I) such eligible individual (or, in an appropriate case, a parent, a
  family member, a guardian, an advocate, or an authorized representative,
  of such individual); and
  `(II) the vocational rehabilitation counselor or coordinator; and
  `(ii) such program meets the requirements set forth in subparagraph (B).
  `(B) Each individualized written rehabilitation program shall--
  `(i) be designed to achieve the employment objective of the individual,
  consistent with the unique strengths, resources, priorities, concerns,
  abilities, and capabilities, of the individual;
  `(ii) include a statement of the long-term rehabilitation goals based on the
  assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation needs
  described in section 7(22)(B), including an assessment of career interests,
  for the individual, which goals shall, to the maximum extent appropriate,
  include placement in integrated settings;
  `(iii) include a statement of the intermediate rehabilitation objectives
  related to the attainment of such goals, determined through such assessment
  carried out in the most individualized and integrated setting (consistent
  with the informed choice of the individual);
  `(iv)(I) include a statement of the specific vocational rehabilitation
  services to be provided, and the projected dates for the initiation and
  the anticipated duration of each such service;
  `(II) if appropriate, include a statement of the specific rehabilitation
  technology services to be provided to assist in the implementation of
  intermediate rehabilitation objectives and long-term rehabilitation goals
  for the individual; and
  `(III) if appropriate, include a statement of the specific on-the-job and
  related personal assistance services to be provided to the individual, and,
  if appropriate and desired by the individual, the training in managing,
  supervising, and directing personal assistance services to be provided to
  the individual;
  `(v) include an assessment of the expected need for postemployment services
  and, if appropriate, extended services;
  `(vi) provide for--
  `(I) a reassessment of the need for postemployment services and,
  if appropriate, extended services prior to the point of successful
  rehabilitation, in accordance with this subsection; and
  `(II) if appropriate, the development of a statement detailing how such
  services shall be provided or arranged through cooperative agreements with
  other service providers;
  `(vii) include objective criteria and an evaluation procedure and schedule
  for determining whether such goals and objectives are being achieved;
  `(viii) include the terms and conditions under which goods and services
  described above will be provided to the individual in the most integrated
  settings;
  `(ix) identify the entity or entities that will provide the vocational
  rehabilitation services and the process used to provide or procure such
  services;
  `(x) include a statement by the individual, in the words of the individual
  (or, if appropriate, in the words of a parent, a family member, a guardian,
  an advocate, or an authorized representative, of the individual), describing
  how the individual was informed about and involved in choosing among
  alternative goals, objectives, services, entities providing such services,
  and methods used to provide or procure such services;
  `(xi) include, if necessary, an amendment specifying--
  `(I) the reasons that an individual for whom a program has been prepared
  is no longer eligible for vocational rehabilitation services; and
  `(II) the rights and remedies available to such an individual including,
  if appropriate, recourse to the processes set forth in subsections (b)(2)
  and (d);
  `(xii) set forth the rights and remedies available to such an individual
  including, if appropriate, recourse to the processes set forth in subsections
  (b)(2) and (d);
  `(xiii) provide a description of the availability of a client assistance
  program established pursuant to section 112;
  `(xiv) to the maximum extent possible, be provided in the native language,
  or mode of communication, of the individual, or, in an appropriate case,
  of a parent, a family member, a guardian, an advocate, or an authorized
  representative, of such individual; and
  `(xv) include information identifying other related services and benefits
  provided pursuant to any Federal, State, or local program that will enhance
  the capacity of the individual to achieve the vocational objectives of
  the individual.
  `(C) The designated State unit shall furnish a copy of the individualized
  written rehabilitation program and amendments to the program to the
  individual with a disability or, in an appropriate case, a parent, a
  family member, a guardian, an advocate, or an authorized representative,
  of the individual.'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting after the first sentence the following:
  `Any revisions or amendments to the program resulting from such review shall
  be incorporated into or affixed to such program. Such revisions or amendments
  shall not take effect until agreed to and signed by the individual with a
  disability, or, if appropriate, by a parent, a family member, a guardian,
  an advocate, or an authorized representative, of such individual.'.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 102(c) (29 U.S.C. 722(c)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `Commissioner shall also insure' and inserting `Director
  of the designated State unit shall also ensure'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `evaluation of rehabilitation potential'
  and inserting `assessment for determining eligibility and vocational
  rehabilitation needs described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of section
  7(22)'.
  (d) SELECTION OF IMPARTIAL HEARING OFFICER- Section 102(d) (29 U.S.C. 722(d))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by inserting `(A)' after `(2)'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following:
  `(B) The impartial hearing officer shall be selected to hear a particular
  case--
  `(i) on a random basis; or
  `(ii) by agreement between--
  `(I) the Director of the designated State unit and the individual with a
  disability; or
  `(II) in an appropriate case, the Director and a parent, a family member,
  a guardian, an advocate, or an authorized representative, of such individual.
  `(C) The impartial hearing officer shall be selected from among a pool of
  qualified persons identified jointly by--
  `(i) the designated State unit; and
  `(ii)(I) the members of the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council established
  under section 105 who were appointed under one of subparagraphs (E) through
  (H) of section 105(b)(1);
  `(II) the commission described in subparagraph (B) or (C)(i) of section
  101(a)(36); or
  `(III) the commissions described in section 101(a)(36)(C)(ii).';
  (2) in paragraph (3), by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the
  following:
  `(C)(i) The Director may not overturn or modify a decision of an impartial
  hearing officer, or part of such a decision, that supports the position
  of the individual unless the Director concludes, based on clear and
  convincing evidence, that the decision of the independent hearing officer
  is clearly erroneous on the basis of being contrary to Federal or State law,
  including policy.
  `(ii) A final decision shall be made in writing by the Director and shall
  include a full report of the findings and the grounds for such decision.
  `(iii) Upon making a final decision, the Director shall provide a copy of
  such decision to such individual.';
  (3) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
  (4) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
  `(5) Unless the individual with a disability so requests, or, in an
  appropriate case, a parent, a family member, a guardian, an advocate, or
  an authorized representative, of such individual so requests, pending a
  final determination of such hearing or other final resolution under this
  subsection, the designated State unit shall not institute a suspension,
  reduction, or termination of services being provided under the individualized
  written rehabilitation program, unless such services have been obtained
  through misrepresentation, fraud, collusion, or criminal conduct on the
  part of the individual with a disability.'.
SEC. 124. SCOPE OF VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 103(a) (29 U.S.C. 723(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1) an assessment for determining eligibility and vocational rehabilitation
  needs by qualified personnel, including, if appropriate, an assessment by
  personnel skilled in rehabilitation technology;';
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking `referral,';
  (B) by inserting `work-related' before `placement services';
  (C) by inserting before `followup,' the following: `job search assistance,
  placement assistance, job retention services, personal assistance services,
  and';
  (D) by striking `maintain or regain employment' and inserting `maintain,
  regain, or advance in employment'; and
  (E) by striking `, and other services' and all that follows through `under
  this Act';
  (3) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) by striking `and services' and inserting `and such services'; and
  (B) by striking `: Provided, That' and inserting `, except that';
  (4) in paragraph (4)(A)--
  (A) by striking `handicap to employment,' and inserting `impediment to
  employment,'; and
  (B) by striking `substantially reduce the handicap' and inserting `reduce
  such impediment to employment';
  (5) in paragraph (5), by striking `, not exceeding the estimated cost of
  subsistence, during rehabilitation' and inserting `for additional costs
  incurred while participating in rehabilitation';
  (6) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (11);
  (7) in paragraph (12), by striking `engineering services.' and inserting
  `technology services;'; and
  (8) by adding at the end the following:
  `(13) referral and other services designed to assist individuals with
  disabilities in securing needed services from other agencies through
  agreements developed under section 101(a)(11), if such services are not
  available under this Act;
  `(14) transition services that promote or facilitate the accomplishment
  of long-term rehabilitation goals and intermediate rehabilitation objectives;
  `(15) on-the-job or other related personal assistance services provided
  while an individual with a disability is receiving services described in
  this section; and
  `(16) supported employment services.'.
  (b) ADDITIONAL VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES- Section 103(b) (29
  U.S.C. 723(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `in the case' and inserting `In the case'; and
  (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking `the construction' and all that follows through
  `rehabilitation facilities)' and inserting the following: `The establishment,
  development, or improvement of community rehabilitation programs, including,
  under special circumstances, the construction of a facility, and the
  provision of other services (including services offered at community
  rehabilitation programs)';
  (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a period; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following sentence: `Such programs shall be used
  to provide services that promote integration and competitive employment.';
  (3) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) by striking `the use of' and inserting `The use of'; and
  (B) by striking `; and' and inserting a period;
  (4) in paragraph (4), by striking `the use of' and inserting `The use
  of'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
  `(5) Technical assistance and support services to businesses that are
  not subject to title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
  (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.) and that are seeking to employ individuals with
  disabilities.'.
SEC. 125. NON-FEDERAL SHARE FOR CONSTRUCTION.
  Section 104 (29 U.S.C. 724) is amended--
  (1) by striking `costs of construction or establishment of a public or
  nonprofit rehabilitation facility' and inserting `costs of establishment
  of a community rehabilitation program or construction, under special
  circumstances, of a facility for such a program'; and
  (2) by striking `construction or establishment of a facility' and inserting
  `establishment of such a program or construction of such a facility'.
SEC. 126. STATE REHABILITATION ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part A of title I (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 105. STATE REHABILITATION ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B) or (C) of section
  101(a)(36), to be eligible to receive financial assistance under this title
  a State shall establish a State Rehabilitation Advisory Council (referred
  to in this section as the `Council') in accordance with this section.
  `(2) SEPARATE AGENCY FOR INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND- A State that designates a
  State agency to administer the part of the State plan under which vocational
  rehabilitation services are provided for individuals who are blind under
  section 101(a)(1)(A)(i) may establish a separate Council in accordance
  with this section to perform the duties of such a Council with respect to
  such State agency.
  `(b) COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT-
  `(1) COMPOSITION- The Council shall be composed of--
  `(A) at least one representative of the Statewide Independent Living
  Council established under section 705, which representative may be the
  chairperson or other designee of the Council;
  `(B) at least one representative of a parent training and information
  center established pursuant to section 631(c)(9) of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431(c)(9));
  `(C) at least one representative of the client assistance program established
  under section 112;
  `(D) at least one vocational rehabilitation counselor, with knowledge of
  and experience with vocational rehabilitation programs, who shall serve
  as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the Council if the counselor is an
  employee of the designated State agency;
  `(E) at least one representative of community rehabilitation program
  service providers;
  `(F) four representatives of business, industry, and labor;
  `(G) representatives of disability advocacy groups representing a cross
  section of--
  `(i) individuals with physical, cognitive, sensory, and mental disabilities;
  and
  `(ii) parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized
  representatives of individuals with disabilities who have difficulty
  in representing themselves or are unable due to their disabilities to
  represent themselves; and
  `(H) current or former applicants for, or recipients of, vocational
  rehabilitation services.
  `(2) EX OFFICIO MEMBER- The Director of the designated State unit shall
  be an ex officio member of the Council.
  `(3) APPOINTMENT- Members of the Council shall be appointed by the
  Governor or the appropriate entity within the State responsible for making
  appointments. The appointing authority shall select members after soliciting
  recommendations from representatives of organizations representing a broad
  range of individuals with disabilities and organizations interested in
  individuals with disabilities.
  `(4) QUALIFICATIONS- A majority of Council members shall be persons who are--
  `(A) individuals with disabilities described in section 7(8)(B); and
  `(B) not employed by the designated State unit.
  `(5) CHAIRPERSON-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Council shall
  select a chairperson from among the membership of the Council.
  `(B) DESIGNATION BY GOVERNOR- In States in which the Governor does not
  have veto power pursuant to State law, the Governor shall designate a
  member of the Council to serve as the chairperson of the Council or shall
  require the Council to so designate such a member.
  `(6) TERMS OF APPOINTMENT-
  `(A) LENGTH OF TERM- Each member of the Council shall serve for a term of
  not more than 3 years, except that--
  `(i) a member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration
  of the term for which a predecessor was appointed, shall be appointed for
  the remainder of such term; and
  `(ii) the terms of service of the members initially appointed shall be
  (as specified by the appointing authority) for such fewer number of years
  as will provide for the expiration of terms on a staggered basis.
  `(B) NUMBER OF TERMS- No member of the Council may serve more than two
  consecutive full terms.
  `(7) VACANCIES- Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Council
  shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. The vacancy
  shall not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties
  of the Council.
  `(c) FUNCTIONS OF COUNCIL- The Council shall--
  `(1) review, analyze, and advise the designated State unit regarding
  the performance of the responsibilities of the unit under this title,
  particularly responsibilities relating to--
  `(A) eligibility (including order of selection);
  `(B) the extent, scope, and effectiveness of services provided; and
  `(C) functions performed by State agencies that affect or that potentially
  affect the ability of individuals with disabilities in achieving
  rehabilitation goals and objectives under this title;
  `(2) advise the designated State agency and the designated State unit, and,
  at the discretion of the designated State agency, assist in the preparation
  of applications, the State plan, the strategic plan and amendments to the
  plans, reports, needs assessments, and evaluations required by this title;
  `(3) to the extent feasible, conduct a review and analysis of the
  effectiveness of, and consumer satisfaction with--
  `(A) the functions performed by State agencies and other public and
  private entities responsible for performing functions for individuals with
  disabilities; and
  `(B) vocational rehabilitation services--
  `(i) provided, or paid for from funds made available, under this Act or
  through other public or private sources; and
  `(ii) provided by State agencies and other public and private entities
  responsible for providing vocational rehabilitation services to individuals
  with disabilities;
  `(4) prepare and submit an annual report to the Governor or appropriate State
  entity and the Commissioner on the status of vocational rehabilitation
  programs operated within the State, and make the report available to
  the public;
  `(5) coordinate with other councils within the State, including the Statewide
  Independent Living Council established under section 705, the advisory panel
  established under section 613(a)(12) of the Individuals with Disabilities
  Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1413(a)(12)), the State Planning Council described
  in section 124 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of
  Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6024), and the State mental health planning council
  established under section 1916(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 300x-4(e));
  `(6) advise the State agency designated under section 101(a)(1) and provide
  for coordination and the establishment of working relationships between
  the State agency and the Statewide Independent Living Council and centers
  for independent living within the State; and
  `(7) perform such other functions, consistent with the purpose of this title,
  as the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council determines to be appropriate,
  that are comparable to the other functions performed by the Council.
  `(d) RESOURCES-
  `(1) PLAN- The Council shall prepare, in conjunction with the designated
  State unit, a plan for the provision of such resources, including such staff
  and other personnel, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
  Council under this section. The resource plan shall, to the maximum extent
  possible, rely on the use of resources in existence during the period of
  implementation of the plan.
  `(2) RESOLUTION OF DISAGREEMENTS- To the extent that there is a disagreement
  between the Council and the designated State unit in regard to the resources
  necessary to carry out the functions of the Council as set forth in this
  section, the disagreement shall be resolved by the Governor or appointing
  agency consistent with paragraph (1).
  `(3) SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION- Each Council shall, consistent with
  State law, supervise and evaluate such staff and other personnel as may
  be necessary to carry out its functions under this section.
  `(4) PERSONNEL CONFLICT OF INTEREST- While assisting the Council in carrying
  out its duties, staff and other personnel shall not be assigned duties
  by the designated State unit or any other agency or office of the State,
  that would create a conflict of interest.
  `(e) CONFLICT OF INTEREST- No member of the Council shall cast a vote on
  any matter that would provide direct financial benefit to the member or
  otherwise give the appearance of a conflict of interest under State law.
  `(f) MEETINGS- The Council shall convene at least 4 meetings a year in such
  places as it determines to be necessary to conduct Council business and
  conduct such forums or hearings as the Council considers appropriate. The
  meetings, hearings, and forums shall be publicly announced. The meetings
  shall be open and accessible to the general public unless there is a valid
  reason for an executive session.
  `(g) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- The Council may use funds appropriated
  under this title to reimburse members of the Council for reasonable and
  necessary expenses of attending Council meetings and performing Council
  duties (including child care and personal assistance services), and to pay
  compensation to a member of the Council, if such member is not employed
  or must forfeit wages from other employment, for each day the member is
  engaged in performing the duties of the Council.
  `(h) HEARINGS AND FORUMS- The Council is authorized to hold such hearings
  and forums as the Council may determine to be necessary to carry out the
  duties of the Council.
  `(i) USE OF EXISTING COUNCILS- To the extent that a State has established
  a Council before September 30, 1992, that is comparable to the Council
  described in this section, such established Council shall be considered
  to be in compliance with this section. Within 1 year after the date of
  enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, such State shall
  establish a Council that complies in full with this section.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 104 the following:
`Sec. 105. State Rehabilitation Advisory Council.'.
SEC. 127. EVALUATION.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part A of title I (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.) (as amended by
  section 126(a)), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 106. EVALUATION STANDARDS AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall, not later than September 30, 1994,
  establish and publish evaluation standards and performance indicators for
  the vocational rehabilitation program under this title.
  `(2) MEASURES- The standards and indicators shall include outcome and
  related measures of program performance that facilitate and in no way
  impede the accomplishment of the purpose and policy of this title.
  `(3) COMMENT- The standards and indicators shall be developed with input
  from State vocational rehabilitation agencies, related professional and
  consumer organizations, recipients of vocational rehabilitation services,
  and other interested parties. The Commissioner shall publish in the
  Federal Register a notice of intent to regulate regarding the development
  of proposed standards and indicators. Proposed standards and indicators
  shall be published in the Federal Register for review and comment. Final
  standards and indicators shall be published in the Federal Register.
  `(b) COMPLIANCE-
  `(1) STATE REPORTS- In accordance with regulations established by the
  Secretary, each State shall report to the Commissioner after the end of
  each fiscal year the extent to which the State is in compliance with the
  standards and indicators.
  `(2) PROGRAM IMPROVEMENT-
  `(A) PLAN- If the Commissioner determines that the performance of any State
  is below established standards, the Commissioner shall provide technical
  assistance to the State and the State and the Commissioner shall jointly
  develop a program improvement plan outlining the specific actions to be
  taken by the State to improve program performance.
  `(B) REVIEW- The Commissioner shall--
  `(i) review the program improvement efforts of the State on a biannual
  basis and, if necessary, request the State to make further revisions to
  the plan to improve performance; and
  `(ii) continue to conduct such reviews and request such revisions until the
  State sustains satisfactory performance over a period of more than 1 year.
  `(c) WITHHOLDING- If the Commissioner determines that a State whose
  performance falls below the established standards has failed to enter into
  a program improvement plan, or is not complying substantially with the
  terms and conditions of such a program improvement plan, the Commissioner
  shall, consistent with subsections (c) and (d) of section 107, reduce or
  make no further payments to the State under this program, until the State
  has entered into an approved program improvement plan, or satisfies the
  Commissioner that the State is complying substantially with the terms and
  conditions of such a program improvement plan, as appropriate.
  `(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Beginning in fiscal year 1996, the Commissioner
  shall include in each annual report to the Congress under section 13 an
  analysis of program performance, including relative State performance,
  based on the standards and indicators.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 105 (as added by
  section 126(b)) the following:
`Sec. 106. Evaluation standards and performance indicators.'.
SEC. 128. MONITORING AND REVIEW.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part A of title I (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.) (as amended
  by sections 126(a) and 127(a)), is further amended by adding at the end
  the following:
`SEC. 107. MONITORING AND REVIEW.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) DUTIES- In carrying out the duties of the Commissioner under this
  title, the Commissioner shall--
  `(A) provide for the annual review and periodic on-site monitoring of
  programs under this title; and
  `(B) determine whether, in the administration of the State plan, a State is
  complying substantially with the provisions of such plan and with evaluation
  standards and performance indicators established under section 106.
  `(2) PROCEDURES FOR REVIEWS- In conducting reviews under this section the
  Commissioner shall consider, at a minimum--
  `(A) State policies and procedures;
  `(B) guidance materials;
  `(C) decisions resulting from hearings conducted in accordance with due
  process;
  `(D) strategic plans and updates;
  `(E) plans and reports prepared under section 106(b);
  `(F) consumer satisfaction surveys described in section 101(a)(32);
  `(G) information provided by the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  established under section 105;
  `(H) reports; and
  `(I) budget and financial management data.
  `(3) PROCEDURES FOR MONITORING- In conducting monitoring under this section
  the Commissioner shall conduct--
  `(A) on-site visits, including on-site reviews of records to verify that
  the State is following requirements regarding the order of selection set
  forth in section 101(a)(5)(A);
  `(B) public hearings and other strategies for collecting information from
  the public;
  `(C) meetings with the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council;
  `(D) reviews of individual case files, including individualized written
  rehabilitation programs and ineligibility determinations; and
  `(E) meetings with rehabilitation counselors and other personnel.
  `(4) AREAS OF INQUIRY- In conducting the review and monitoring, the
  Commissioner shall examine--
  `(A) the eligibility process;
  `(B) the provision of services, including, if applicable, the order of
  selection;
  `(C) whether the personnel evaluation system described in section 101(a)(35)
  facilitates and does not impede the accomplishments of the program;
  `(D) such other areas as may be identified by the public or through meetings
  with the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council; and
  `(E) such other areas of inquiry as the Commissioner may consider
  appropriate.
  `(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Commissioner shall--
  `(1) provide technical assistance to programs under this title regarding
  improving the quality of vocational rehabilitation services provided; and
  `(2) provide technical assistance and establish a corrective action plan
  for a program under this title if the Commissioner finds that the program
  fails to comply substantially with the provisions of the State plan, or with
  evaluation standards or performance indicators established under section 106,
  in order to ensure that such failure is corrected as soon as practicable.
  `(c) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN-
  `(1) WITHHOLDING PAYMENTS- Whenever the Commissioner, after providing
  reasonable notice and an opportunity for a hearing to the State agency
  administering or supervising the administration of the State plan approved
  under section 101, finds that--
  `(A) the plan has been so changed that it no longer complies with the
  requirements of section 101(a); or
  `(B) in the administration of the plan there is a failure to comply
  substantially with any provision of such plan or with an evaluation standard
  or performance indicator established under section 106,
the Commissioner shall notify such State agency that no further payments
will be made to the State under this title (or, in the discretion of the
Commissioner, that such further payments will be reduced, in accordance with
regulations the Commissioner shall prescribe, or that further payments will
not be made to the State only for the projects under the parts of the State
plan affected by such failure), until the Commissioner is satisfied there
is no longer any such failure.
  `(2) PERIOD- Until the Commissioner is so satisfied, the Commissioner
  shall make no further payments to such State under this title (or shall
  reduce payments or limit payments to projects under those parts of the
  State plan in which there is no such failure).
  `(3) DISBURSAL OF WITHHELD FUNDS- The Commissioner may, in accordance with
  regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, disburse any funds withheld
  from a State under paragraph (1) to any public or nonprofit private
  organization or agency within such State or to any political subdivision of
  such State submitting a plan meeting the requirements of section 101(a). The
  Commissioner may not make any payment under this paragraph unless the entity
  to which such payment is made has provided assurances to the Commissioner
  that such entity will contribute, for purposes of carrying out such plan,
  the same amount as the State would have been obligated to contribute if
  the State received such payment.
  `(d) REVIEW-
  `(1) PETITION- Any State that is dissatisfied with a final determination of
  the Commissioner under section 101(b) or subsection (c) may file a petition
  for judicial review of such determination in the United States Court of
  Appeals for the circuit in which the State is located. Such a petition may
  be filed only within the 30-day period beginning on the date that notice
  of such final determination was received by the State. The clerk of the
  court shall transmit a copy of the petition to the Commissioner or to any
  officer designated by the Commissioner for that purpose. In accordance
  with section 2112 of title 28, United States Code, the Commissioner shall
  file with the court a record of the proceeding on which the Commissioner
  based the determination being appealed by the State. Until a record is
  so filed, the Commissioner may modify or set aside any determination made
  under such proceedings.
  `(2) SUBMISSIONS AND DETERMINATIONS- If, in an action under this subsection
  to review a final determination of the Commissioner under section 101(b)
  or subsection (c), the petitioner or the Commissioner applies to the court
  for leave to have additional oral submissions or written presentations
  made respecting such determination, the court may, for good cause shown,
  order the Commissioner to provide within 30 days an additional opportunity
  to make such submissions and presentations. Within such period, the
  Commissioner may revise any findings of fact, modify or set aside the
  determination being reviewed, or make a new determination by reason of the
  additional submissions and presentations, and shall file such modified
  or new determination, and any revised findings of fact, with the return
  of such submissions and presentations. The court shall thereafter review
  such new or modified determination.
  `(3) STANDARDS OF REVIEW-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Upon the filing of a petition under paragraph (1) for
  judicial review of a determination, the court shall have jurisdiction--
  `(i) to grant appropriate relief as provided in chapter 7 of title 5, United
  States Code, except for interim relief with respect to a determination
  under subsection (c); and
  `(ii) except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B), to review such
  determination in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(B) SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE- Section 706 of title 5, United States Code,
  shall apply to the review of any determination under this subsection,
  except that the standard for review prescribed by paragraph (2)(E) of
  such section 706 shall not apply and the court shall hold unlawful and
  set aside such determination if the court finds that the determination
  is not supported by substantial evidence in the record of the proceeding
  submitted pursuant to paragraph (1), as supplemented by any additional
  submissions and presentations filed under paragraph (2).'.
  (b) CONFORMING AND TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS-
  (1) Section 6(c) (29 U.S.C. 705(c)) is amended by striking `101' and
  inserting `107'.
  (2) The table of contents relating to the Act is amended by inserting after
  the item relating to section 106 (as added by section 127(b)) the following:
`Sec. 107. Monitoring and review.'.
SEC. 129. EXPENDITURE OF CERTAIN AMOUNTS.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part A of title I (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.), as amended by the
  preceding sections, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 108. EXPENDITURE OF CERTAIN AMOUNTS.
  `(a) EXPENDITURE- Amounts described in subsection (b) may not be expended by
  a State for any purpose other than carrying out programs for which the State
  receives financial assistance under this title, under part C of title VI,
  or under title VII.
  `(b) AMOUNTS- The amounts referred to in subsection (a) are amounts
  provided to a State under the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.) as
  reimbursement for the expenditure of payments received by the State from
  allotments under section 110 of this Act.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 107 (as added by
  section 128(b)(2)) the following:
`Sec. 108. Expenditure of certain amounts.'.
SEC. 130. TRAINING OF EMPLOYERS WITH RESPECT TO AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT OF 1990.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part A of title I (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.), as amended by the
  preceding sections, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 109. TRAINING OF EMPLOYERS WITH RESPECT TO AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT OF 1990.
  `A State may expend payments received under section 111--
  `(1) to carry out a program to train employers with respect to compliance
  with the requirements of title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act
  of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.); and
  `(2) to inform employers of the existence of the program and the availability
  of the services of the program.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 108 (as added by
  section 129(b)) the following:
`Sec. 109. Training of employers with respect to Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990.'.
SEC. 131. REALLOTMENT.
  (a) TERRITORIES- Section 110(a) (29 U.S.C. 730(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `and the Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands' and inserting `and the Republic of Palau'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5) The Republic of Palau may receive allotments or allocations under this
  section only until the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect.'.
  (b) REALLOTMENT- Section 110(c) (29 U.S.C. 730(c)) is amended by adding
  at the end the following:
  `(4) If the Commissioner determines, under paragraph (1), that any payment
  of an allotment to a State under section 111(a) for any fiscal year will
  not be utilized by such State in carrying out the purposes of this title,
  the payment shall remain available for reallotment to other States until
  reallotted.'.
  (c) RESERVATION- Section 110(d) (29 U.S.C. 730(d)) is amended by striking
  paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
  `(2) The sum referred to in paragraph (1) shall be, as determined by
  the Secretary--
  `(A) not less than one-third of one percent and not more than 1.5 percent
  of the amount under paragraph (1), for fiscal years 1993 and 1994; and
  `(B) not less than one-half of one percent and not more than 1.5 percent
  of the amount under paragraph (1), for fiscal years 1995, 1996, and 1997.'.
SEC. 132. PAYMENTS TO STATES.
  Section 111(a) (29 U.S.C. 731(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `(including any additional payment to it under section
  110(b))'; and
  (B) by striking `State plan.' and inserting `State plan and development
  and implementation of the strategic plan as provided in section
  101(a)(34)(A). Any State that receives such an amount shall expend,
  for development and implementation of the strategic plan, not less than
  the percentage of the allotment of the State referred to in section
  101(a)(34)(B).';
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `(and any additional payment under
  subsection (b))'; and
  (B) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
  `(B)(i) For fiscal year 1993, the amount otherwise payable to a State for
  a fiscal year under this section shall be reduced by the amount by which
  expenditures from non-Federal sources under the State plan under this title
  for the previous fiscal year are less than the average of the total of
  such expenditures for the 3 fiscal years preceding the previous fiscal year.
  `(ii) For fiscal year 1994 and each fiscal year thereafter, the amount
  otherwise payable to a State for a fiscal year under this section shall be
  reduced by the amount by which expenditures from non-Federal sources under
  the State plan under this title for the previous fiscal year are less than
  the total of such expenditures for the second fiscal year preceding the
  previous fiscal year.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the amount of a payment
  under this section with respect to any construction project in any State
  shall be equal to the same percentage of the cost of such project as the
  Federal share that is applicable in the case of rehabilitation facilities
  (as defined in section 645(g) of the Public Health Service Act (42
  U.S.C. 291o(a))), in such State.
  `(B) If the Federal share with respect to rehabilitation facilities
  in such State is determined pursuant to section 645(b)(2) of such Act
  (42 U.S.C. 291o(b)(2)), the percentage of the cost for purposes of this
  section shall be determined in accordance with regulations prescribed
  by the Commissioner designed to achieve as nearly as practicable results
  comparable to the results obtained under such section.'.
SEC. 133. CLIENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
  (a) ADVOCACY- Section 112(a) (29 U.S.C. 732(a)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence--
  (A) by striking `to assist such clients' and inserting `to assist and
  advocate for such clients';
  (B) by inserting `and advocacy' after `including assistance'; and
  (C) by inserting before the period in the first sentence the following:
  `and to facilitate access to the services funded under this Act through
  individual and systemic advocacy';
  (2) by amending the second sentence to read as follows: `The client
  assistance program shall provide information on the available services and
  benefits under this Act and title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act
  of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.) to individuals with disabilities in the
  State, especially with regard to individuals with disabilities who have
  traditionally been unserved or underserved by vocational rehabilitation
  programs.'; and
  (3) by inserting after the second sentence the following: `In providing
  assistance and advocacy under this subsection with respect to services
  under this title, a client assistance program may provide the assistance and
  advocacy with respect to services that are directly related to facilitating
  the employment of the individual.'.
  (b) REDESIGNATION OF AGENCY- Section 112(c)(1) (29 U.S.C. 732(c)(1))
  is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
  `(B) The Governor may not redesignate the agency designated under
  subparagraph (A) without good cause and unless--
  `(i) the Governor has given the agency 30 days notice of the intention to
  make such redesignation, including specification of the good cause for
  such redesignation and an opportunity to respond to the assertion that
  good cause has been shown;
  `(ii) individuals with disabilities or their representatives have timely
  notice of the redesignation and opportunity for public comment; and
  `(iii) the agency has the opportunity to appeal to the Commissioner on
  the basis that the redesignation was not for good cause.'.
  (c) MINIMUM STATE ALLOTMENTS- Section 112(e)(1) (29 U.S.C. 732(e)(1))
  is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking `and the Trust Territory of the
  Pacific Islands.' and inserting `and the Republic of Palau, except that
  the Republic of Palau may receive such allotment under this section only
  until the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect.';
  (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking `and the Trust Territory of the
  Pacific Islands' and inserting `and the Republic of Palau'; and
  (3) in subparagraph (D)--
  (A) in clause (i), by striking `$75,000' and inserting `$100,000'; and
  (B) in clause (ii)--
  (i) by striking `subsection (c),' and inserting `clause (i),';
  (ii) by striking `minimum allotment under subparagraph (A)' and inserting
  `minimum allotments under subparagraphs (A) and (B)'; and
  (iii) by striking `fiscal year by more than' and all that follows and
  inserting `fiscal year.'.
  (d) REPORT- Section 112(g) (29 U.S.C. 732(g)) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new paragraphs:
  `(5) Each such report shall contain information on the number of requests
  the client assistance program under this section receives annually, the
  number of requests such program is unable to serve, and the reasons that
  the program is unable to serve all the requests.
  `(6) For purposes of such report or for any other periodic audit, report,
  or evaluation of the performance of a client assistance program under this
  section, the Secretary shall not require such a program to disclose the
  identity of, or any other personally identifiable information related to,
  any individual requesting assistance under such program.'.
  (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 112 (29 U.S.C. 732) is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (h);
  (2) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (h); and
  (3) in subsection (h) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection) by striking `$7,100,000' and all that follows and inserting
  `such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1993 through 1997 to carry
  out the provisions of this section.'.
SEC. 134. INNOVATION AND EXPANSION GRANTS.
  (a) AMENDMENT- Part C of title I (29 U.S.C. 740 et seq.) is amended to
  read as follows:
`Part C--Innovation and Expansion Grants
`SEC. 120. STATE ELIGIBILITY.
  `Effective October 1, 1993, any State desiring to receive assistance
  under this part and part B of this title shall prepare and submit to the
  Commissioner a statewide strategic plan for developing and using innovative
  approaches for achieving long-term success in expanding and improving
  vocational rehabilitation services, including supported employment services,
  provided under the State plan submitted under section 101 and the supplement
  to the State plan submitted under part C of title VI.
`SEC. 121. CONTENTS OF STRATEGIC PLANS.
  `(a) PURPOSE AND POLICY- The strategic plan shall be designed to achieve
  the purpose and policy of this title and carry out the State plan and the
  supplement to the State plan submitted under part C of title VI.
  `(b) CONTENTS- The strategic plan shall include--
  `(1) a statement of the mission, philosophy, values, and principles of
  the vocational rehabilitation program in the State;
  `(2) specific goals and objectives for expanding and improving the system
  for providing the vocational rehabilitation program;
  `(3) specific multifaceted and systemic approaches for accomplishing the
  objectives, including interagency coordination and cooperation, that build
  upon state-of-the-art practices and research findings and that implement
  the State plan and the supplement to the State plan submitted under part
  C of title VI;
  `(4) a description of the specific programs, projects, and activities
  funded under this part and how the programs, projects, and activities
  accomplish the objectives; and
  `(5) specific criteria for determining whether the objectives have been
  achieved, an assurance that the State will conduct an annual evaluation to
  determine the extent to which the objectives have been achieved, and, if
  specific objectives have not been achieved, the reasons that the objectives
  have not been achieved and a description of alternative approaches that
  will be taken.
`SEC. 122. PROCESS FOR DEVELOPING STRATEGIC PLANS.
  `(a) PERIOD AND UPDATES- The strategic plan shall cover a 3-year period
  and shall be updated on an annual basis to reflect actual experience over
  the previous year and input from the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  established under section 105, individuals with disabilities, and other
  interested parties.
  `(b) RECOMMENDATIONS- Prior to developing the strategic plan, the State
  shall hold public forums and meet with and receive recommendations from
  members of the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council and the Statewide
  Independent Living Council established under section 705.
  `(c) CONSIDERATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS- The State shall consider the
  recommendations and, if the State rejects the recommendations, shall
  include a written explanation of the rejection in the strategic plan.
  `(d) PROCEDURE- The State shall develop a procedure for ensuring ongoing
  comment from the councils described in subsection (b) as the plan is
  being implemented.
  `(e) DISSEMINATION- The State shall widely disseminate the strategic plan
  to individuals with disabilities, disability organizations, rehabilitation
  professionals, and other interested persons.
`SEC. 123. USE OF FUNDS.
  `A State may use funds made available under this part, directly or by grant,
  contract, or other arrangement, to carry out--
  `(1) programs to initiate and expand employment opportunities for individuals
  with severe disabilities in integrated settings that allow for the use of
  on-the-job training to promote the objectives of title I of the Americans
  with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.);
  `(2) programs or activities to improve the provision of, and expand,
  employment services in integrated settings to individuals with sensory,
  cognitive, physical, and mental impairments who have traditionally not
  been served by the State vocational rehabilitation agency;
  `(3) programs and activities to maximize the ability of individuals with
  disabilities to use rehabilitation technology in employment settings;
  `(4) programs and activities that--
  `(A) assist employers in accommodating, evaluating, training, or placing
  individuals with disabilities in the workplace of the employer consistent
  with provisions of this Act and title I of the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990; and
  `(B) may include short-term technical assistance or other effective
  strategies;
  `(5) programs and activities that expand and improve the extent and type
  of client involvement in the review and selection of the training and
  employment goals of the client;
  `(6) programs and activities that expand and improve opportunities for
  career advancement for individuals with severe disabilities;
  `(7) programs, projects, and activities designed to initiate, expand, or
  improve working relationships between vocational rehabilitation services
  provided under this title and independent living services provided under
  title VII;
  `(8) programs, projects, and activities designed to improve functioning
  of the system for delivering vocational rehabilitation services and to
  improve coordination and working relationships with other State and local
  agencies, business, industry, labor, community rehabilitation programs,
  and centers for independent living, including projects designed to--
  `(A) increase the ease of access to, timeliness of, and quality of vocational
  rehabilitation services through the development and implementation of
  policies, procedures, and systems and interagency mechanisms for providing
  vocational rehabilitation services;
  `(B) improve the working relationships between State vocational
  rehabilitation agencies, and other State agencies, centers for independent
  living, community rehabilitation programs, educational agencies involved
  in higher education, adult basic education, and continuing education,
  and businesses, industry, and labor organizations, in order to create and
  facilitate cooperation in--
  `(i) planning and implementing services; and
  `(ii) the development of an integrated system of community-based vocational
  rehabilitation service that includes appropriate transitions between
  service systems; and
  `(C) improve the ability of professionals, clients, advocates, business,
  industry, and labor to work in cooperative partnerships to improve
  the quality of vocational rehabilitation services and job and career
  opportunities for individuals with disabilities;
  `(9) support efforts to ensure that the annual evaluation of the
  effectiveness of the program in meeting the goals and objectives set forth
  in the State plan, including the system for evaluating the performance of
  rehabilitation counselors, coordinators, and other personnel used in the
  State, facilitates and does not impede the accomplishment of the purpose
  and policy of this title, including serving, among others, individuals
  with the most severe disabilities;
  `(10) support the initiation, expansion, and improvement of a comprehensive
  system of personnel development;
  `(11) support the provision of training and technical assistance to clients,
  business, industry, labor, community rehabilitation programs, and others
  regarding the implementation of the amendments made by the Rehabilitation
  Act Amendments of 1992, of title V of this Act, and of the Americans with
  Disabilities Act of 1990; and
  `(12) support the funding of the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  and the Statewide Independent Living Council established under section 705.
`SEC. 124. ALLOTMENTS AMONG STATES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) STATES-
  `(A) POPULATION BASIS- Except as provided in subparagraph (B),  from sums
  appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this part (not including
  sums used in accordance with section 101(a)(34)(B)), the Commissioner
  shall make an allotment to each State whose State plan has been approved
  under section 101 of an amount bearing the same ratio to such sums as the
  population of the State bears to the population of all States.
  `(B) MINIMUMS- Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out
  this part, the allotment to any State under subparagraph (A) shall be not
  less than $200,000 or one-third of one percent of the sums made available
  for the fiscal year for which the allotment is made, whichever is greater,
  and the allotment of any State under this section for any fiscal year that
  is less than $200,000 or one-third of one percent of such sums shall be
  increased to the greater of the two amounts.
  `(2) CERTAIN TERRITORIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam, American Samoa,
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau shall not be considered to be States.
  `(B) ALLOTMENT- Each jurisdiction described in subparagraph (A) shall
  be allotted not less than one-eighth of one percent of the amounts made
  available for purposes of this part for the fiscal year for which the
  allotment is made, except that the Republic of Palau may receive such
  allotment under this section only until the Compact of Free Association
  with Palau takes effect.
  `(3) ADJUSTMENT FOR INFLATION- For purposes of determining the minimum
  amount of an allotment under paragraph (1)(B), the amount $200,000 shall,
  in the case of such allotments for fiscal year 1994 and subsequent fiscal
  years, be increased to the extent necessary to offset the effects of
  inflation occurring since October 1992, as measured by the percentage
  increase in the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (U.S. city
  average) during the period ending on April 1 of the fiscal year preceding
  the fiscal year for which the allotment is to be made.
  `(b) PROPORTIONAL REDUCTION- Amounts necessary to provide allotments
  to States in accordance with subsection (a)(1)(B) as increased under
  subsection (a)(3), or to provide allotments in accordance with subsection
  (a)(2)(B), shall be derived by proportionately reducing the allotments of
  the remaining States under subsection (a)(1), but with such adjustments as
  may be necessary to prevent the allotment of any such remaining States from
  being thereby reduced to less than the greater of $200,000 or one-third of
  one percent of the sums made available for purposes of this part for the
  fiscal year for which the allotment is made, as increased in accordance
  with subsection (a)(3).
  `(c) REALLOTMENT- Whenever the Commissioner determines that any amount of
  an allotment to a State for any fiscal year will not be expended by such
  State for carrying out the provisions of this part, the Commissioner shall
  make such amount available for carrying out the purposes of this part to one
  or more of the States that the Commissioner determines will be able to use
  additional amounts during such year for carrying out such provisions. Any
  amount made available to a State for any fiscal year pursuant to the
  preceding sentence shall, for the purposes of this section, be regarded
  as an increase in the allotment of the State (as determined under the
  preceding provisions of this section) for such year.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by striking the items relating to part C of title I and inserting
  the following:
`Part C--Innovation and Expansion Grants
`Sec. 120. State eligibility.
`Sec. 121. Contents of strategic plans.
`Sec. 122. Process for developing strategic plans.
`Sec. 123. Use of funds.
`Sec. 124. Allotments among States.'.
SEC. 135. STUDY OF NEEDS OF AMERICAN INDIANS WITH HANDICAPS.
  (a) REPEAL- Part D of title I is amended by repealing section 131 (29
  U.S.C. 751).
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the item relating to section 131.
SEC. 136. REVIEW OF DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM.
  (a) REVIEW- The Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration
  (in this section referred to as the `Commissioner') shall undertake a
  comprehensive review of the current system for collecting and reporting
  client data under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et
  seq.), particularly data on clients of the programs under title I of the
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 720 et seq.).
  (b) CONSIDERATIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- In conducting the review, the Commissioner shall examine
  the kind, quantity, and quality of the data that are currently reported,
  taking into consideration the range of purposes that the data serve at
  the Federal, State, and local levels.
  (2) DATA ELEMENTS- In conducting the review, the Commissioner shall examine
  the feasibility of collecting and reporting under the system information,
  if such information can be determined, regarding--
  (A) other program participation by clients during the 3 years prior to
  application;
  (B) the number of jobs held, hours worked, and earnings received by clients
  in the 3 years prior to application to a program under the Rehabilitation
  Act of 1973;
  (C) the types of major and secondary disabilities of clients;
  (D) the dates of the onset of disabilities of clients;
  (E) the severity of the disabilities of clients;
  (F) the sources of referral of clients to programs under such Act;
  (G) the hours worked by clients;
  (H) the size and industry code of the place of employment of clients at
  the time of entry into such a program and at the termination of services
  under the program;
  (I) the number of services provided under the programs and the cost of
  each service;
  (J) the types of public support received by the clients;
  (K) the primary sources of economic support and amounts of public assistance
  received by the clients before and after receiving the services;
  (L) whether the clients are covered by health insurance from any source and
  whether health insurance is available through the employment of the client;
  (M) the supported employment status of the client; and
  (N) the reasons for terminating the services.
  (c) RECOMMENDATIONS- Based on the review, the Commissioner shall recommend
  improvements in the data collection and reporting system.
  (d) VIEWS- In developing the recommendations, the Commissioner shall seek
  views of persons and entities providing or using such data, including
  State agencies, State Rehabilitation Advisory Councils, providers of
  vocational rehabilitation services, professionals in the field of vocational
  rehabilitation, clients and organizations representing clients, the National
  Council on Disability, other Federal agencies, non-Federal researchers,
  other analysts using the data, and other members of the public.
  (e) PUBLICATION AND SUBMISSION OF REPORT- Not later than 18 months after
  the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commissioner shall publish
  the recommendations in the Federal Register and shall prepare and submit
  a report containing the recommendations to the appropriate committees of
  Congress. The Commissioner shall not implement the recommendations earlier
  than 90 days after the date on which the Commissioner submits the report.
SEC. 137. EXCHANGE OF DATA.
  The Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health and Human
  Services shall enter into a memorandum of understanding for the purpose of
  exchanging data of mutual importance, regarding clients of State vocational
  rehabilitation agencies, that are contained in databases maintained by
  the Rehabilitation Services Administration, as required under section 13
  of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 712), and the Social Security
  Administration, from its Summary Earnings and Records and Master Beneficiary
  Records. For purposes of the exchange, the Social Security data shall not
  be considered tax information and, as appropriate, the confidentiality of
  all client information shall be maintained by both agencies.
SEC. 138. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  (a) EFFECTIVE DATE- Except as provided in subsection (b), this title
  and the amendments made by this title shall take effect on the date of
  enactment of this Act.
  (b) STATE PLAN- The Secretary of Education shall implement the amendments
  made by section 122 of this Act to section 101 of the Rehabilitation Act of
  1973 (29 U.S.C. 721), as soon as is practicable after the date of enactment
  of this Act, consistent with the effective and efficient administration
  of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, but not later than October 1, 1993.
TITLE II--RESEARCH
SEC. 201. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
  Section 200 (29 U.S.C. 760) is amended by striking paragraphs (1) through
  (4) and inserting the following:
  `(1) provide for research, demonstration projects, training, and related
  activities to maximize the full inclusion and integration into society,
  employment, independent living, family support, and economic and social
  self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities of all ages, with
  particular emphasis on improving the effectiveness of services authorized
  under this Act;
  `(2) provide for a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the support
  and conduct of such research, demonstration projects, training, and
  related activities and to ensure that the approach is in accordance with
  the long-range plan for research developed under section 202(g);
  `(3) promote the transfer of rehabilitation technology to individuals with
  disabilities through research and demonstration projects relating to--
  `(A) the procurement process for the purchase of rehabilitation technology;
  `(B) the utilization of rehabilitation technology on a national basis; and
  `(C) specific adaptations or customizations of products to enable individuals
  with disabilities to live more independently;
  `(4) ensure the widespread distribution, in usable formats, of practical
  scientific and technological information--
  `(A) generated by research, demonstration projects, training, and related
  activities; and
  `(B) regarding state-of-the-art practices, improvements in the services
  authorized under this Act, rehabilitation technology, and new knowledge
  regarding disabilities,
to rehabilitation professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other
interested parties;
  `(5) identify effective strategies that enhance the opportunities of
  individuals with disabilities to engage in productive work; and
  `(6) increase opportunities for researchers who are members of traditionally
  underserved populations, including researchers who are members of minority
  groups and researchers who are individuals with disabilities.'.
SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 201(a) (29 U.S.C. 761(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `other than expenses to carry out section 204' and inserting
  `which shall include the expenses of the Rehabilitation Research Advisory
  Council under section 205, and shall not include the expenses of such
  Institute to carry out section 204'; and
  (B) by striking `fiscal year 1987' and all that follows through the
  semicolon and inserting `each of fiscal years 1993 through 1997;'; and
  (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
  `(2) to carry out section 204, such sums as may be necessary for each of
  fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
SEC. 203. NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DISABILITY AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 202(a) (29 U.S.C. 761a(a)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence--
  (A) by striking `In order' and all that follows through `there' and inserting
  `(1) There'; and
  (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: `,
  in order to--
  `(A) promote, coordinate, and provide for--
  `(i) research;
  `(ii) demonstration projects; and
  `(iii) related activities,
with respect to individuals with disabilities;
  `(B) more effectively carry out activities through the programs under
  section 204;
  `(C) widely disseminate information from the activities described in clauses
  (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B); and
  `(D) provide leadership in advancing the quality of life of individuals
  with disabilities.'; and
  (2) by striking the second sentence and inserting the following:
  `(2) In the performance of the functions of the office, the Director shall
  be directly responsible to the Secretary or to the same Under Secretary or
  Assistant Secretary of the Department of Education to whom the Commissioner
  is responsible under section 3(a).'.
  (b) RESPONSIBILITIES- Section 202(b) (29 U.S.C. 761a(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
  `(2) widely disseminating findings, conclusions, and recommendations,
  resulting from research, demonstration projects, and related activities
  funded by the Institute, to--
  `(A) other Federal, State, tribal, and local public agencies;
  `(B) private organizations engaged in research relating to rehabilitation
  or providing rehabilitation services;
  `(C) rehabilitation practitioners; and
  `(D) individuals with disabilities and the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals;';
  (2) by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:
  `(4) widely disseminating educational materials and research results,
  concerning ways to maximize the full inclusion and integration into society,
  employment, independent living, family support, and economic and social
  self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities, to--
  `(A) public and private entities, including--
  `(i) elementary and secondary schools (as defined in paragraphs (8)
  and (21), respectively, of section 1471 of the Elementary and Secondary
  Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891 (8) and (21)); and
  `(ii) institutions of higher education;
  `(B) rehabilitation practitioners;
  `(C) individuals with disabilities (especially such individuals who
  are members of minority groups or of populations that are unserved or
  underserved by programs under this Act); and
  `(D) the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized
  representatives of the individuals;';
  (3) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following:
  `(6) conducting conferences, seminars, and workshops (including in-service
  training programs and programs for individuals with disabilities) concerning
  advances in rehabilitation research and rehabilitation technology,
  pertinent to the full inclusion and integration into society, employment,
  independent living, family support, and economic and social self-sufficiency
  of individuals with disabilities;';
  (4) in paragraph (7), by striking `; and' and inserting `, including
  dissemination activities;';
  (5) in paragraph (8)--
  (A) by inserting `the Health Care Financing Administration,' after `the
  Bureau of the Census,';
  (B) by inserting `widely' before `disseminating';
  (C) by striking `and others to assist in the planning and evaluation' and
  inserting `, individuals with disabilities, the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of such individuals,
  and others to assist in the planning, assessment, and evaluation'; and
  (D) by striking the period at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
  (6) by adding at the end the following paragraphs:
  `(9) conducting research on consumer satisfaction with vocational
  rehabilitation services for the purpose of identifying effective
  rehabilitation programs and policies that promote the independence of
  individuals with disabilities and achievement of long-term vocational goals;
  `(10) conducting research to examine the relationship between the provision
  of specific services and long-term vocational outcomes; and
  `(11) coordinating activities with the Attorney General regarding the
  provision of information, training, or technical assistance regarding
  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) to
  ensure consistency with the plan for technical assistance required under
  section 506 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 12206).'.
  (c) DIRECTOR-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 202(c)(1) (29 U.S.C. 761a(c)(1)) is amended--
  (A) in the first sentence, by striking `appointed by the President, by
  and with the advice and consent of the Senate.' and inserting `appointed
  by the Secretary, except that the person serving as the Director on the
  date of the enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 may,
  at the pleasure of the President, continue to serve as Director.'; and
  (B) by striking the fourth sentence.
  (2) QUALIFICATIONS- Section 202(c)(2) (29 U.S.C. 761a(c)(2)) is amended--
  (A) by inserting after the first sentence the following: `The Deputy Director
  shall be an individual with substantial experience in rehabilitation and
  in research administration.';
  (B) in the sentence beginning `The Deputy Director shall be compensated'--
  (i) by striking `the rate provided for grade GS-17 of the General Schedule
  under section 5332' and inserting `the rate of pay for level 4 of the
  Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382'; and
  (ii) by striking `or disability of the Director' and inserting `of the
  Director or the inability of the Director to perform the essential functions
  of the job'; and
  (C) by striking the last sentence.
  (d) FELLOWSHIPS- Section 202(d) (29 U.S.C. 761a(d)) is amended by inserting
  `, including individuals with disabilities,' after `fellows'.
  (e) SCIENTIFIC REVIEW- Section 202(e) (29 U.S.C. 761a(e)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation;
  (2) by striking `rehabilitation field.' and inserting the following:
  `rehabilitation field (including experts in the independent living field)
  competent to review research grants and programs, including knowledgeable
  individuals with disabilities, and the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals. The Director
  shall solicit nominations for such peer review groups from the public and
  shall publish the names of the individuals selected. Individuals comprising
  each peer review group shall be selected from a pool of qualified individuals
  to facilitate knowledgeable, cost-effective review.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2) In providing for such scientific review, the Secretary shall provide
  for training of such individuals and mechanisms to receive input from
  individuals with disabilities, and from the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals.'.
  (f) USE OF FUNDS- Section 202 (29 U.S.C. 761a) is amended by striking
  subsection (f) and inserting the following:
  `(f) Not less than 90 percent of the funds appropriated under this title for
  any fiscal year shall be expended by the Director to carry out activities
  under this title through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements. Up
  to 10 percent of the funds appropriated under this title for any fiscal
  year may be expended directly for the purpose of carrying out the functions
  of the Director under this section.'.
  (g) LONG-RANGE PLAN- Section 202(g) (29 U.S.C. 761a(g)) is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking `within eighteen
  months after the effective date of this section';
  (2) in paragraph (1), by striking `problems encountered' and all that
  follows and inserting `full inclusion and integration into society of
  individuals with disabilities, especially in the area of employment;';
  (3) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2);
  (4) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(4) be developed in consultation with the Rehabilitation Research Advisory
  Council established under section 205 and after full consideration of the
  input of individuals with disabilities and the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals,
  organizations representing individuals with disabilities, providers of
  services furnished under this Act, and researchers in the rehabilitation
  field;
  `(5) specify plans for widespread dissemination of research results in
  accessible formats to rehabilitation practitioners, individuals with
  disabilities, and the parents, family members, guardians, advocates,
  or authorized representatives of the individuals;
  `(6) specify plans for widespread dissemination of research results that
  concern individuals with disabilities who are members of minority groups or
  of populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this Act;
  `(7) be developed by the Director--
  `(A) in coordination with the Commissioner; and
  `(B) in consultation with the National Council on Disability established
  under title IV, the Secretary of Education, officials responsible for the
  administration of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of
  Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6000 et seq.), the Interagency Committee on Disability
  Research established under section 203, individuals with disabilities, the
  parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives
  of the individuals, and any other persons or entities the Director considers
  appropriate; and
  `(8) be revised, in the manner required by this section--
  `(A) at least once every 5 years; and
  `(B) at any time determined to be necessary by the Director.'.
  (h) RESEARCH PROGRAM- Section 202(i)(2) (29 U.S.C. 761a(i)(2)) is amended
  by striking `this section' and inserting `this title'.
  (i) PEDIATRIC REHABILITATION RESEARCH- Section 202(j) (29 U.S.C. 761a(j))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `for the establishment of' and inserting
  `to support'; and
  (2) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking `establish' and inserting
  `support'.
  (j) REHABILITATION RESEARCHERS- Section 202(k) (29 U.S.C. 761a(k)) is amended
  by striking `researchers' and all that follows and inserting the following:
  `rehabilitation researchers, including individuals with disabilities, with
  particular attention to research areas that support the implementation
  and objectives of this Act and that improve the effectiveness of services
  authorized under this Act.'.
  (k) RECOMMENDATIONS AND STUDY- Section 202 (29 U.S.C. 761a) is amended by
  striking subsections (l) and (m).
SEC. 204. INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 203(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 761b(a)(1)) is amended by
  inserting `the Commissioner of the Rehabilitation Services Administration,
  the Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services,'
  after `designees): the Director,'.
  (b) IDENTIFICATION, ASSESSMENT, AND COORDINATION- Section 203(b) (29
  U.S.C. 761b(b)) is amended by striking `The' and inserting `After receiving
  input from individuals with disabilities and the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals, the'.
  (c) REPORT- Section 203(c) (29 U.S.C. 761b(c)) is amended by striking
  `, not later than' and all that follows through `shall' and inserting
  `shall annually'.
SEC. 205. RESEARCH.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 204(a) (29 U.S.C. 762(a)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by striking `demonstrations,' and all that follows
  and inserting `demonstration projects, training, and related activities,
  the purposes of which are to develop methods, procedures, and rehabilitation
  technology, that maximize the full inclusion and integration into society,
  employment, independent living, family support, and economic and social
  self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities, especially individuals
  with the most severe disabilities, and improve the effectiveness of services
  authorized under this Act. In carrying out this section, the Director shall
  emphasize projects that support the implementation of titles I, III, VI,
  VII, and VIII.'; and
  (2) in the last sentence--
  (A) by inserting after `Such projects' the following: `, as described in
  the State plans submitted by State agencies,';
  (B) by striking `special problems of homebound and institutionalized
  individuals' and inserting `studies and analysis of special problems of
  individuals who are homebound and individuals who are institutionalized'; and
  (C) by striking the period at the end and inserting the following: `,
  particularly individuals with disabilities, and individuals with the most
  severe disabilities, who are members of populations that are unserved or
  underserved by programs under this Act.'.
  (b) RESEARCH ACTIVITIES- Section 204(b) (29 U.S.C. 762(b)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (15) as paragraphs (5) through
  (16), respectively;
  (2) by striking the matter preceding paragraph (1) and all that follows
  through paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
  `(b)(1) In addition to carrying out projects under subsection (a),
  the Director may make grants under this subsection (referred to in this
  subsection as `research grants') to pay part or all of the cost of the
  specialized research or demonstration activities described in paragraphs
  (2) through (16).
  `(2)(A) Research grants may be used for the establishment and support of
  Rehabilitation Research and Training Centers, for the purpose of providing
  an integrated program of research, which Centers shall--
  `(i) be operated in collaboration with institutions of higher education
  or providers of rehabilitation services or other appropriate services; and
  `(ii) serve as centers of national excellence and national or regional
  resources for providers and individuals with disabilities and the parents,
  family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of
  the individuals.
  `(B) The Centers shall conduct research and training activities by--
  `(i) conducting coordinated and advanced programs of research in
  rehabilitation targeted toward the production of new knowledge that will
  improve rehabilitation methodology and service delivery systems, alleviate
  or stabilize disabling conditions, and promote maximum social and economic
  independence of individuals with disabilities;
  `(ii) providing training (including graduate, pre-service, and in-service
  training) to assist individuals to more effectively provide rehabilitation
  services;
  `(iii) providing training (including graduate, pre-service, and in-service
  training) for rehabilitation research personnel and other rehabilitation
  personnel; and
  `(iv) serving as an informational and technical assistance resource to
  providers, individuals with disabilities, and the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals,
  through conferences, workshops, public education programs, in-service
  training programs, and similar activities.
  `(C) The research to be carried out at each such Center may include--
  `(i) basic or applied medical rehabilitation research;
  `(ii) research regarding the psychological and social aspects of
  rehabilitation, including disability policy;
  `(iii) research related to vocational rehabilitation;
  `(iv) continuation of research that promotes the emotional, social,
  educational, and functional growth of children who are individuals with
  disabilities;
  `(v) continuation of research to develop and evaluate interventions,
  policies, and services that support families of those children and adults
  who are individuals with disabilities; and
  `(vi) continuation of research that will improve services and policies
  that foster the productivity, independence, and social integration of
  individuals with disabilities, and enable individuals with disabilities,
  including individuals with mental retardation and other developmental
  disabilities, to live in their communities.
  `(D) Training of students preparing to be rehabilitation personnel shall
  be an important priority for such a Center.
  `(E) The Director shall make grants under this paragraph to establish and
  support both comprehensive centers dealing with multiple disabilities and
  centers primarily focused on particular disabilities.
  `(F) Grants made under this paragraph may be used to provide funds for
  services rendered by such a Center to individuals with disabilities in
  connection with the research and training activities.
  `(G) Grants made under this paragraph may be used to provide faculty
  support for teaching--
  `(i) rehabilitation related courses of study for credit; and
  `(ii) other courses offered by the Centers, either directly or through
  another entity.
  `(H) The research and training activities conducted by such a Center shall
  be conducted in a manner that is accessible to and usable by individuals
  with disabilities.
  `(I) The Director shall encourage the Centers to develop practical
  applications for the findings of the research of the Centers.
  `(J) In awarding grants under this paragraph, the Director shall take
  into consideration the location of any proposed Center and the appropriate
  geographic and regional allocation of such Centers.
  `(K) To be eligible to receive a grant under this paragraph, each such
  institution or provider shall--
  `(i) be of sufficient size, scope, and quality to effectively carry out
  the activities in an efficient manner consistent with appropriate State
  and Federal law; and
  `(ii) demonstrate the ability to carry out the training activities either
  directly or through another entity that can provide such training.
  `(L) The Director shall make grants under this paragraph for periods of
  5 years, except that the Director may make a grant for a period of less
  than 5 years if--
  `(i) the grant is made to a new recipient; or
  `(ii) the grant supports new or innovative research.
  `(M) Grants made under this paragraph shall be made on a competitive
  basis. To be eligible to receive a grant under this paragraph, a prospective
  grant recipient shall submit an application to the Director at such time,
  in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
  `(N) The Director shall establish a system of peer review of applications
  for grants under this paragraph. The peer review of an application for the
  renewal of a grant made under this paragraph shall take into account the
  past performance of the applicant in carrying out the grant and input from
  individuals with disabilities and the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals.
  `(O) An institution or provider that receives a grant under this paragraph
  to establish such a Center may not collect more than 15 percent of the
  amount of the grant received by the Center in indirect cost charges.
  `(3)(A) Research grants may be used for the establishment and support of
  Rehabilitation Engineering Research Centers, operated by or in collaboration
  with institutions of higher education or nonprofit organizations, to
  conduct research or demonstration activities, and training activities,
  regarding rehabilitation technology, including rehabilitation engineering,
  assistive technology devices, and assistive technology services, for the
  purposes of enhancing opportunities for better meeting the needs of, and
  addressing the barriers confronted by, individuals with disabilities in
  all aspects of their lives.
  `(B) In order to carry out the purposes set forth in subparagraph (A),
  such a Center shall carry out the research or demonstration activities by--
  `(i) developing and disseminating innovative methods of applying advanced
  technology, scientific achievement, and psychological and social knowledge
  to--
  `(I) solve rehabilitation problems and remove environmental barriers through
  planning and conducting research, including cooperative research with public
  or private agencies and organizations, designed to produce new scientific
  knowledge, and new or improved methods, equipment, and devices; and
  `(II) study new or emerging technologies, products, or environments, and the
  effectiveness and benefits of such technologies, products, or environments;
  `(ii) demonstrating and disseminating--
  `(I) innovative models for the delivery, to rural and urban areas, of
  cost-effective rehabilitation technology services that promote utilization
  of assistive technology devices; and
  `(II) other scientific research to assist in meeting the employment and
  independent living needs of individuals with severe disabilities; or
  `(iii) conducting research or demonstration activities that facilitate
  service delivery systems change by demonstrating, evaluating, documenting,
  and disseminating--
  `(I) consumer responsive and individual and family centered innovative
  models for the delivery to both rural and urban areas, of innovative
  cost-effective rehabilitation technology services that promote utilization
  of rehabilitation technology; and
  `(II) other scientific research to assist in meeting the employment and
  independent living needs of, and addressing the barriers confronted
  by, individuals with disabilities, including individuals with severe
  disabilities.
  `(C) To the extent consistent with the nature and type of research or
  demonstration activities described in subparagraph (B), each Center
  established or supported through a grant made available under this
  paragraph shall--
  `(i) cooperate with programs established under the Technology-Related
  Assistance to Individuals With Disabilities Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2201
  et seq.) and other regional and local programs to provide information to
  individuals with disabilities and the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals, to--
  `(I) increase awareness and understanding of how rehabilitation technology
  can address their needs; and
  `(II) increase awareness and understanding of the range of options,
  programs, services, and resources available, including financing options
  for the technology and services covered by the area of focus of the Center;
  `(ii) provide training opportunities to individuals, including individuals
  with disabilities, to become researchers of rehabilitation technology and
  practitioners of rehabilitation technology in conjunction with institutions
  of higher education and nonprofit organizations; and
  `(iii) respond, through research or demonstration activities, to the needs
  of individuals with all types of disabilities who may benefit from the
  application of technology within the area of focus of the Center.
  `(D)(i) In establishing Centers to conduct the research  or demonstration
  activities described in subparagraph (B)(iii), the Director may establish
  one Center in each of the following areas of focus:
  `(I) Early childhood services, including early intervention and family
  support.
  `(II) Education at the elementary and secondary levels, including transition
  from school to postschool activities.
  `(III) Employment, including supported employment, and reasonable
  accommodations and the reduction of environmental barriers as required by
  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) and
  title V.
  `(IV) Independent living, including transition from institutional to
  community living, maintenance of community living on leaving the work force,
  self-help skills, and activities of daily living.
  `(ii) Each Center conducting the research or demonstration activities
  described in subparagraph (B)(iii) shall have an advisory committee,
  of which the majority of members are individuals with disabilities
  who are users of rehabilitation technology, and the parents, family
  members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of users of
  rehabilitation technology.
  `(E) Grants made under this paragraph shall be made on a competitive basis
  and shall be for a period of 5 years, except that the Director may make
  a grant for a period of less than 5 years if--
  `(i) the grant is made to a new recipient; or
  `(ii) the grant supports new or innovative research.
  `(F) To be eligible to receive a grant under this paragraph, a prospective
  grant recipient shall submit an application to the Director at such time,
  in such manner, and containing such information as the Director may require.
  `(G) Each Center established or supported through a grant made available
  under this paragraph shall--
  `(i) cooperate with State agencies and other local, State, regional, and
  national programs and organizations developing or delivering rehabilitation
  technology, including State programs funded under the Technology-Related
  Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities Act of 1988 (29 U.S.C. 2201
  et seq.); and
  `(ii) prepare and submit to the Director as part of an application for
  continuation of a grant, or as a final report, a report that documents
  the outcomes of the program in terms of both short- and long-term impact
  on the lives of individuals with disabilities, and such other information
  as may be requested by the Director.
  `(4)(A) Research grants may be used to conduct a program for spinal cord
  injury research, including conducting such a program by making grants to
  public or private agencies and organizations to pay part or all of the costs
  of special projects and demonstration projects for spinal cord injuries,
  that will--
  `(i) ensure widespread dissemination of research findings among all Spinal
  Cord Injury Centers, to rehabilitation practitioners, individuals with
  spinal cord injury, the parents, family members, guardians, advocates,
  or authorized representatives of such individuals, and organizations
  receiving financial assistance under this paragraph;
  `(ii) provide encouragement and support for initiatives and new approaches
  by individual and institutional investigators; and
  `(iii) establish and maintain close working relationships with other
  governmental and voluntary institutions and organizations engaged in
  similar efforts in order to unify and coordinate scientific efforts,
  encourage joint planning, and promote the interchange of data and reports
  among spinal cord injury investigations.
  `(B) Any agency or organization carrying out a project or demonstration
  project assisted by a grant under this paragraph that provides services
  to individuals with spinal cord injuries shall--
  `(i) establish, on an appropriate regional basis, a multidisciplinary system
  of providing vocational and other rehabilitation services, specifically
  designed to meet the special needs of individuals with spinal cord injuries,
  including acute care as well as periodic inpatient or outpatient followup
  and services;
  `(ii) demonstrate and evaluate the benefits to individuals with spinal
  cord injuries served in, and the degree of cost effectiveness of, such a
  regional system;
  `(iii) demonstrate and evaluate existing, new, and improved methods
  and equipment essential to the care, management, and rehabilitation of
  individuals with spinal cord injuries; and
  `(iv) demonstrate and evaluate methods of community outreach for individuals
  with spinal cord injuries and community education in connection with the
  problems of such individuals in areas such as housing, transportation,
  recreation, employment, and community activities.
  `(C) In awarding grants under this paragraph, the Director shall take
  into account the location of any proposed Spinal Cord Injury Center and
  the appropriate geographic and regional allocation of such Centers.';
  (3) in paragraphs (5) through (16) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)
  of this subsection), by striking `Conduct of' the first place in each such
  paragraph that the term appears and inserting `Research grants may be used
  to conduct';
  (4) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection), to read as follows:
  `(9) Research grants may be used to conduct a program of research related to
  the rehabilitation of children, or older individuals, who are individuals
  with disabilities, including older American Indians who are individuals
  with disabilities. Such research program may include projects designed to
  assist the adjustment of, or maintain as residents in the community, older
  workers who are individuals with disabilities on leaving the work force.';
  (5) in paragraph (12)(A) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection), by inserting `assessment,' after `early intervention,'; and
  (6) in paragraph (13) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1) of this
  subsection)--
  (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `developing the
  employment potential' and inserting `addressing the employment needs'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `potential' and inserting `needs'.
SEC. 206. REHABILITATION RESEARCH ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  (a) COUNCIL- Title II (29 U.S.C. 760 et seq.) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new section:
`REHABILITATION RESEARCH ADVISORY COUNCIL
  `SEC. 205. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Subject to the availability of appropriations,
  the Secretary shall establish in the Department of Education a Rehabilitation
  Research Advisory Council (referred to in this section as the `Council')
  composed of 12 members appointed by the Secretary.
  `(b) DUTIES- The Council shall advise the Director with respect to research
  priorities and the development and revision of the long-range plan required
  by section 202(g).
  `(c) QUALIFICATIONS- Members of the Council shall be generally
  representative of the community of rehabilitation professionals, the
  community of rehabilitation researchers, the community of individuals
  with disabilities, and the parents, family members, guardians, advocates,
  or authorized representatives of the individuals. At least one-half of the
  members shall be individuals with disabilities or parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals.
  `(d) TERMS OF APPOINTMENT-
  `(1) LENGTH OF TERM- Each member of the Council shall serve for a term of
  up to 3 years, determined by the Secretary, except that--
  `(A) a member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration
  of the term for which a predecessor was appointed, shall be appointed for
  the remainder of such term; and
  `(B) the terms of service of the members initially appointed shall be
  (as specified by the Secretary) for such fewer number of years as will
  provide for the expiration of terms on a staggered basis.
  `(2) NUMBER OF TERMS- No member of the Council may serve more than two
  consecutive full terms. Members may serve after the expiration of their
  terms until their successors have taken office.
  `(e)  VACANCIES- Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Council
  shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the
  position being vacated. The vacancy shall not affect the power of the
  remaining members to execute the duties of the Council.
  `(f) PAYMENT AND EXPENSES-
  `(1) PAYMENT- Each member of the Council who is not an officer or full-time
  employee of the Federal Government shall receive a payment of $150 for
  each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged in the
  performance of duties for the Council. All members of the Council who are
  officers or full-time employees of the United States shall serve without
  compensation in addition to compensation received for their services as
  officers or employees of the United States.
  `(2) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member of the Council may receive travel expenses,
  including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of
  title 5, United States Code, for employees serving intermittently in the
  Government service, for each day the member is engaged in the performance
  of duties away from the home or regular place of business of the member.
  `(g) DETAIL OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES- On the request of the Council, the
  Secretary may detail, with or without reimbursement, any of the personnel
  of the Department of Education to the Council to assist the Council in
  carrying out its duties. Any detail shall not interrupt or otherwise affect
  the civil service status or privileges of the Federal employee.
  `(h) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- On the request of the Council, the Secretary
  shall provide such technical assistance to the Council as the Council
  determines to be necessary to carry out its duties.
  `(i) TERMINATION- Section 14 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5
  U.S.C. App.) shall not apply with respect to the Council.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by inserting after the item relating to section 204 the following:
`Sec. 205. Rehabilitation Research Advisory Council.'.
TITLE III--TRAINING AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
SEC. 301. DECLARATION OF PURPOSE; ORGANIZATION.
  (a) PURPOSE- Section 300 (29 U.S.C. 770) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as paragraphs (4), (3),
  (2), and (5), respectively;
  (2) by inserting paragraphs (2) and (3) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)
  of this subsection), respectively, before paragraph (4) (as so redesignated
  by paragraph (1) of this subsection);
  (3) by inserting before paragraph (2) the following:
  `(1) authorize grants and contracts to--
  `(A) ensure that skilled personnel are available to provide rehabilitation
  services to individuals with disabilities through vocational, medical,
  social, and psychological rehabilitation programs, through supported
  employment programs, through independent living services programs, and
  through client assistance programs;
  `(B) maintain and upgrade basic skills and knowledge of personnel employed
  to provide state-of-the-art service delivery systems and rehabilitation
  technology services; and
  `(C) provide training and information to individuals with disabilities,
  the parents, families, guardians, advocates, and authorized representatives
  of the individuals, and other appropriate parties to develop the skills
  necessary for individuals with disabilities to access the rehabilitation
  system and to become active decisionmakers in the rehabilitation process;';
  (4) in paragraph (2) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)) by striking
  `and' at the end;
  (5) in paragraph (3) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)) by striking
  `training' and inserting `rehabilitation'; and
  (6) in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)) by striking
  `construction' and all that follows and inserting `development and
  improvement of community rehabilitation programs; and'.
  (b) ORGANIZATION- Title III (29 U.S.C. 770 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by striking the headings for the title and part A of the title and
  inserting the following:
`TITLE III--TRAINING AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
`PART A--TRAINING PROGRAMS AND COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS';
  (2) by striking section 301 (29 U.S.C. 771);
  (3) by redesignating sections 300, 302, 303, and 304 (29 U.S.C. 770, 772,
  773, and 774) as sections 301, 303, 304, and 302, respectively; and
  (4) by inserting section 302 (as so redesignated by paragraph (3) of this
  subsection) after section 301.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The table of contents relating to title III is
  amended to read as follows:
`TITLE III--TRAINING AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
`Part A--Training Programs and Community Rehabilitation Programs
`Sec. 301. Declaration of purpose.
`Sec. 302. Training.
`Sec. 303. Vocational rehabilitation services for individuals with
disabilities.
`Sec. 304. Loan guarantees for community rehabilitation programs.
`Sec. 305. Comprehensive rehabilitation centers.
`Sec. 306. General grant and contract requirements.
`Part B--Special Projects
`Sec. 310. Authorization of appropriations.
`Sec. 311. Special demonstration programs.
`Sec. 312. Migratory workers.
`Sec. 314. Reader services for individuals who are blind.
`Sec. 315. Interpreter services for individuals who are deaf.
`Sec. 316. Special recreational programs.'.
SEC. 302. TRAINING.
  (a) TRAINING GRANTS AND CONTRACTS-
  (1) CERTAIN PROJECTS- Section 302(a) (29 U.S.C. 774(a)) (as so redesignated
  by section 301(b)(3)) is amended in the first sentence--
  (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
  (i) by inserting after `traineeships, and related activities' the following:
  `, including the provision of technical assistance,'; and
  (ii) by inserting `, and other services provided under this Act,' after
  `rehabilitation services';
  (B) in paragraph (1), by striking `specially' and inserting `specifically';
  (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the comma at the end the following:
  `, including needs for rehabilitation technology services';
  (D) in paragraph (3)--
  (i) by striking `comprehensive services for independent living' and inserting
  `independent living services'; and
  (ii) by striking `and' at the end;
  (E) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
  (F) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following: `(4) personnel
  specifically trained to deliver services, through supported employment
  programs, to individuals with the most severe disabilities, and';
  (2) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS; APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE- Section 302(a)
  (29 U.S.C. 774(a)), as amended by paragraph (1), is amended--
  (A) by striking the second and third sentences;
  (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as subparagraphs (A)
  through (E), respectively;
  (C) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation; and
  (D) by adding at the end the following paragraphs:
  `(2) Grants and contracts under paragraph (1) may be expended for
  scholarships, with necessary stipends and allowances.
  `(3) In carrying out this subsection, the Commissioner shall furnish training
  regarding the services provided under this Act, and, in particular, services
  provided in accordance with amendments made by the Rehabilitation Act
  Amendments of 1992, to rehabilitation counselors and other rehabilitation
  personnel. In carrying out this subsection, the Commissioner shall also
  furnish training to such counselors and personnel regarding the applicability
  of section 504 of this Act, title I of the Americans with Disabilities Act
  of 1990, and the provisions of titles II and XVI of the Social Security
  Act that are related to work incentives for individuals with disabilities.
  `(4) The Commissioner, in carrying out this subsection, shall make grants
  to Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other institutions of
  higher education whose minority student enrollment is at least 50 percent.
  `(5) No grant shall be awarded under this section unless the applicant has
  submitted an application to the Commissioner in such form, and in accordance
  with such procedures, as the Commissioner may require. Any such application
  shall include a detailed description of strategies that will be utilized to
  recruit and train persons so as to reflect the diverse populations of the
  United States, as part of the effort to increase the number of individuals
  with disabilities, and individuals who are members of minority groups,
  who are available to provide rehabilitation services.'.
  (b) PROJECTS- Section 302(b) (29 U.S.C. 774(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1)(A) In making such grants or contracts, the Commissioner shall target
  funds made available for any year to areas of personnel shortage.
  `(B) Projects described in subsection (a) may include--
  `(i) projects to train personnel in the areas of vocational rehabilitation
  counseling, rehabilitation technology, rehabilitation medicine,
  rehabilitation nursing, rehabilitation social work, rehabilitation
  psychiatry, rehabilitation psychology, rehabilitation dentistry, physical
  therapy, occupational therapy, speech pathology and audiology, physical
  education, therapeutic recreation, community rehabilitation programs,
  or prosthetics and orthotics;
  `(ii) projects to train personnel to provide--
  `(I) services to individuals with specific disabilities or specific
  impediments to rehabilitation, including individuals who are members of
  populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this Act;
  `(II) job development and job placement services to individuals with
  disabilities;
  `(III) supported employment services, including services of employment
  specialists for individuals with disabilities;
  `(IV) specialized services for individuals with severe disabilities; or
  `(V)  recreation for individuals with disabilities; and
  `(iii) projects to train personnel in other fields contributing to the
  rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.'; and
  (2) in paragraph (3)(A)--
  (A) by inserting `, for any academic year beginning after June 1, 1992,'
  after `who receives a scholarship'; and
  (B) by striking clause (i) and inserting the following:
  `(i) maintain employment--
  `(I) in a nonprofit rehabilitation agency or related agency or in a
  State rehabilitation agency or related agency, including a professional
  corporation or professional practice group through which the individual
  has a service arrangement with the designated State agency;
  `(II) on a full- or part-time basis; and
  `(III) for a period of not less than the full-time equivalent of 2 years
  for each year for which assistance under this section was received,
within a period, beginning after the recipient completes the training for
which the scholarship was awarded, of not more than the sum of the number of
years in the period described in subclause (III) and 2 additional years; and'.
  (c) TECHNICIAN TRAINING; CAREER ADVANCEMENT AND COMPETENCY-BASED TRAINING-
  Section 302 (29 U.S.C. 774) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (d) through (f) as subsections (f) through
  (h), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following subsections:
  `(d) In carrying out subsection (a), the Commissioner shall award two
  grants to States, public or nonprofit private agencies and organizations,
  and institutions of higher education to support the development of
  rehabilitation technician programs. Such programs shall be designed to
  train local employees, who are recruited from or reside in a community
  historically unserved or underserved by programs providing vocational
  rehabilitation services under this Act, to be liaisons between the
  community and vocational rehabilitation counselors.  The rehabilitation
  technician program shall provide a mechanism through which individuals
  with disabilities residing in remote, isolated settings can successfully
  access vocational rehabilitation services.
  `(e)(1) In carrying out subsection (a), the Commissioner shall award two
  grants to States, public or nonprofit private agencies and organizations,
  and institutions of higher education to support the formation of consortia
  or partnerships of public or nonprofit private entities for the purpose
  of providing opportunities for career advancement or competency-based
  training to current employees of public or nonprofit private agencies that
  provide services to individuals with disabilities. Such opportunities shall
  include certificate or degree granting programs in vocational rehabilitation
  services and related services.
  `(2) An entity that receives a grant under paragraph (1) may use the grant
  for purposes including--
  `(A) establishing a program with an institution of higher education to
  develop creative new programs and coursework options, or to expand existing
  programs, concerning the fields of vocational rehabilitation services and
  related services, including--
  `(i) providing release time for faculty and staff for curriculum development;
  and
  `(ii) paying for instructional costs and startup and other program
  development costs;
  `(B) establishing a career development mentoring program using faculty
  and professional staff members of participating agencies as role models,
  career sponsors, and academic advisors for experienced State, city, and
  county employees, and volunteers, who--
  `(i) have demonstrated a commitment to working in the fields described in
  clause (i); and
  `(ii) are enrolled in a program relating to such a field at an institution
  of higher education;
  `(C) supporting a wide range of programmatic and research activities aimed
  at increasing opportunities for career advancement and competency-based
  training in such fields; and
  `(D) identifying existing public or private agency and labor union personnel
  policies and benefit programs that may facilitate the ability of employees
  to take advantage of higher education opportunities, such as leave time
  and tuition reimbursement.
  `(3) In making grants for projects under paragraph (1), the Commissioner
  shall ensure that the projects shall be geographically distributed throughout
  the United States in urban and rural areas.
  `(4) The Commissioner shall, for the purpose of providing technical
  assistance to States or entities receiving grants under paragraph (1),
  enter into a cooperative agreement through a separate competition with an
  entity that has successfully demonstrated the capacity and expertise in the
  education, training, and retention of employees to serve individuals with
  disabilities through the use of consortia or partnerships established for
  the purpose of retraining the existing work force and providing opportunities
  for career enhancement.
  `(5) The Commissioner may conduct an evaluation of projects funded under
  this subsection.
  `(6) During the period in which an entity is receiving financial assistance
  under paragraph (1), the entity may not receive financial assistance under
  paragraph (4).'.
  (d) OFFICE OF DEAFNESS AND COMMUNICATIVE DISORDERS- Section 302(f)
  (29 U.S.C. 774(f)) (as so redesignated by subsection (c)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) in the first sentence--
  (i) by striking `deaf individuals' and inserting `individuals who are deaf
  and individuals who are deaf-blind';
  (ii) by striking `Office of Information and Resources for Individuals
  With Disabilities' and inserting `Office of Deafness and Communicative
  Disorders'; and
  (iii) by striking `grants under this section' and inserting `grants'; and
  (B) by striking the second sentence; and
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `this section'
  and inserting `paragraph (1)';
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `deaf individuals' and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf and individuals who are deaf-blind';
  (C) in subparagraph (C), by adding `and' after the semicolon at the end;
  (D) by striking subparagraph (D); and
  (E) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D).
  (e) COMPENSATION OF EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Section 302(g) (29
  U.S.C. 774(g)) (as so redesignated by subsection (c)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting
  `community rehabilitation programs';
  (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `the daily rate payable for grade GS-18
  of the General Schedule under section 5332' and inserting `the daily
  equivalent of the rate of pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive Service
  Schedule under section 5382'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), at least 15 percent of the sums
  appropriated to carry out this section shall be allocated to designated State
  agencies to be used, directly or indirectly, for projects for in-service
  training of rehabilitation personnel, including projects designed--
  `(i) to address recruitment and retention of qualified rehabilitation
  professionals;
  `(ii) to provide for succession planning;
  `(iii) to provide for leadership development and capacity building; and
  `(iv) for fiscal years 1993 and 1994, to provide training regarding the
  amendments to this Act made by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992.
  `(B) If the allocation to designated State agencies required by subparagraph
  (A) would result in a lower level of funding for projects being carried
  out on the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992
  by other recipients of funds under this section, the Commissioner may
  allocate less than 15 percent of the sums described in subparagraph (A)
  to designated State agencies for such in-service training.'.
  (f) RELATIONSHIP TO TRAINING ACTIVITIES- Section 302 (29 U.S.C. 774)
  (as amended by subsection (c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(i)(1) Consistent with paragraph (2), and consistent with the general
  authority set forth in this section to fund training activities, nothing
  in this Act shall be construed to prohibit the Commissioner from exercising
  authority under this title, or making available funds appropriated to carry
  out this title, to fund the training activities described in section 803.
  `(2) If the amount of funds appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out
  this section exceeds the amount of funds appropriated for the preceding
  fiscal year to carry out this section, adjusted by the percent by which the
  average of the estimated gross domestic product fixed-weight price index
  for that fiscal year differs from that estimated index for the preceding
  fiscal year, the amount of the excess shall be treated as if the excess
  were appropriated under title VIII.'.
SEC. 303. COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 303(a) (29 U.S.C. 772(a))
  (as so redesignated by section  301(b)(3)) is amended by striking `1987'
  and all that follows and inserting `1993 through 1997.'.
  (b) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 303(b) (29 U.S.C. 772(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `training services' and inserting `rehabilitation services
  or employment support services'; and
  (B) by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting `community
  rehabilitation programs';
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
  `(A) For purposes of this section, vocational rehabilitation services
  shall include--
  `(i) training with a view toward career advancement;
  `(ii) training (including on-the-job training) in occupational skills; and
  `(iii) services, including rehabilitation technology services, personal
  assistance services, and supported employment services and extended
  services, that--
  `(I) are related to training described in clause (i) or (ii); and
  `(II) are required by the individual to engage in such training.'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (B)--
  (i) by inserting after `(B)' the following new sentence: `Pursuant to
  regulations, payment of weekly allowances may be made to individuals
  receiving vocational rehabilitation services and related services under
  this section.';
  (ii) in the second sentence (as placed pursuant to clause (i) of this
  subparagraph), by striking `, and such allowances' and all that follows
  and inserting a period; and
  (iii) in the last sentence--
  (I) by striking `training services' and inserting `vocational rehabilitation
  services'; and
  (II) by striking `gainful and suitable' and inserting `competitive'; and
  (3) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `gainful and suitable employment' and
  inserting `competitive employment, or to place or retain such individual
  in competitive employment';
  (B) in subparagraph (B)--
  (i) by striking `suitable for and';
  (ii) by striking `training' each place the term appears and inserting
  `vocational rehabilitation'; and
  (iii) by striking `rehabilitation facility' and inserting `community
  rehabilitation program';
  (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking `training' and inserting `vocational
  rehabilitation'; and
  (D) in subparagraph (D), by striking `rehabilitation facility and the
  training' and inserting `community rehabilitation program and the vocational
  rehabilitation'.
  (c) ADDITIONAL GRANTS- Section 303 (29 U.S.C. 772) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d);
  (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
  `(c) The Commissioner is also authorized to make grants, upon applications
  approved by the designated State agency, to public or nonprofit agencies,
  institutions, or organizations to assist them in meeting the cost of planning
  community rehabilitation programs, the cost of the services to be provided
  by such programs, and initial staffing costs of such programs.'; and
  (3) in subsection (d)(1) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1))--
  (A) by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting `community
  rehabilitation programs'; and
  (B) by striking `such facilities' and inserting `such programs'.
  (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The heading of section 303 (29 U.S.C. 772)
  is amended by striking `TRAINING' and inserting `REHABILITATION'.
SEC. 304. LOAN GUARANTEES.
  Section 304 (29 U.S.C. 773) (as so redesignated by section 301(b)(3))
  is amended--
  (1) in the heading for the section, by striking `REHABILITATION FACILITIES'
  and inserting `COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS';
  (2) in subsection (a), by striking `facilities for' and inserting `community
  rehabilitation'; and
  (3) in subsection (b)--
  (A) by inserting `under special circumstances and' after `may,'; and
  (B) by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting `facilities for
  community rehabilitation programs'.
SEC. 305. COMPREHENSIVE REHABILITATION CENTERS.
  Section 305 (29 U.S.C. 775) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (d)(1), by striking `facility' and inserting `center'; and
  (2) in subsection (g), by striking `1987,' and all that follows and inserting
  `1993 through 1997.'.
SEC. 306. GENERAL GRANT AND CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS.
  Section 306 (29 U.S.C. 776) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `section 302' and inserting `section 303';
  (2) in subsection (b)(4), by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and
  inserting `facilities for community rehabilitation programs';
  (3) in subsection (f), by striking `rehabilitation facility' and inserting
  `facility for a community rehabilitation program'; and
  (4) in subsection (h), by striking `establishing facilities' and inserting
  `developing or improving community rehabilitation programs'.
SEC. 307. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR SPECIAL PROJECTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY SERVICES.
  Section 310 (29 U.S.C. 777) is amended--
  (1) by striking `(a)' after `310.';
  (2) by striking `and 316' and inserting `312, and 316';
  (3) by striking `$15,860,000' and all that follows and inserting `such
  sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'; and
  (4) by striking subsection (b).
SEC. 308. SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
  (a) GRANTS- Section 311(a) (29 U.S.C. 777a(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `and, where appropriate, constructing facilities'; and
  (B) by striking `blind or deaf individuals,' and all that follows and
  inserting the following: `individuals who are members of populations that
  are unserved or underserved by the programs under this Act, individuals
  who are blind, and individuals who are deaf,';
  (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `new careers);' and inserting `new
  careers and career advancement);';
  (3) in paragraph (3), by striking `and, where appropriate, renovating and
  constructing facilities'; and
  (4) by striking the matter after and below paragraph (4).
  (b) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- Section 311 (29 U.S.C. 777a) is amended by
  striking subsection (b) and redesignating subsections (c) through (e)
  as subsections (b) through (d), respectively.
  (c) SPECIAL PROJECTS AND DEMONSTRATIONS PROVIDING SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT-
  Section 311(c) (29 U.S.C. 777a(d)) (as so redesignated by subsection (b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A)--
  (i) by striking `rehabilitation facilities' and inserting `community
  rehabilitation programs'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period the following: `, including continuation
  of determinations of the effectiveness of natural supports or other
  alternatives to providing extended employment services';
  (B) in subparagraph (B)--
  (i) by striking `and' before `(iii)'; and
  (ii) in clause (iii), by striking `community-based rehabilitation facilities'
  and inserting `community rehabilitation programs'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following subparagraph:
  `(C) Not less than two such grants shall serve individuals who either are
  low-functioning and deaf or low-functioning and hard-of-hearing.';
  (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking `, 1988, and on each subsequent June 1'
  and inserting `of each year'; and
  (3) in paragraph (4), by striking `$9,000,000' and all that follows and
  inserting `such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 1993
  through 1997.'.
  (d) MODEL STATEWIDE TRANSITIONAL PLANNING SERVICES- Section 311(d)
  (29 U.S.C. 777a(e)) (as so redesignated by subsection (b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (3);
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
  respectively;
  (3) in paragraph (3)(A) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection)--
  (A) by striking clause (ii); and
  (B) by striking the clause designation; and
  (4) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this subsection),
  by striking `$450,000' and all that follows and inserting `such sums as
  may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
  (e) EDUCATIONAL AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
  REGARDING LOW-FUNCTIONING- Section 311 (29 U.S.C. 777a), as amended by
  subsection (b), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(e)(1) The Commissioner may make grants to public or private institutions to
  pay for the cost of developing special projects and demonstration projects
  to address the general education, counseling, vocational training, work
  transition, supported employment, job placement, followup, and community
  outreach needs of individuals who are either low-functioning and deaf or
  low-functioning and hard-of-hearing. Such projects shall provide educational
  and vocational rehabilitation services that are not otherwise available in
  the region involved and shall maximize the potential of such individuals,
  including individuals who are deaf and have additional severe disabilities.
  `(2) The Commissioner shall monitor the activities of the recipients of
  grants under this subsection to ensure that the recipients carry out the
  projects in accordance with paragraph (1), that the recipients coordinate
  the projects as described in paragraph (3),  and that information about
  innovative methods of service delivery developed by such projects is
  disseminated.
  `(3) The Commissioner shall prepare and submit an annual report to Congress
  that includes an assessment of the manner in which the recipients carrying
  out the projects coordinate the projects with projects carried out by
  other public or nonprofit agencies serving individuals who are deaf,
  to expand or improve services for such individuals.'.
  (f) RELATIONSHIP TO SPECIAL DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS- Section 311 (29
  U.S.C. 777a), as amended by subsection (e), is amended by adding at the
  end the following new subsection:
  `(f)(1) Consistent with paragraph (2), and consistent with the general
  authority set forth in this section to fund special demonstration programs,
  projects, and activities, nothing in this Act shall be construed to
  prohibit the Commissioner from exercising authority under this title,
  or making available funds appropriated to carry out this title, to fund
  programs, projects, and activities described in section 802.
  `(2) If the amount of funds appropriated for a fiscal year to carry out
  this section exceeds the amount of funds appropriated for the preceding
  fiscal year to carry out this section, adjusted by the percent by which the
  average of the estimated gross domestic product fixed-weight price index
  for that fiscal year differs from that estimated index for the preceding
  fiscal year, the amount of the excess shall be treated as if the excess
  were appropriated under title VIII.'.
SEC. 309. MIGRATORY WORKERS.
  (a) COLLABORATION- The first sentence of section 312 (29 U.S.C. 777b)
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' after `312.'; and
  (2) by inserting `to nonprofit agencies working in collaboration with such
  State agency,' after `section 101,'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 312 (29 U.S.C. 777b) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  for fiscal years 1993 through 1997 such sums as may be necessary to carry
  out this section.'.
SEC. 310. SPECIAL RECREATIONAL PROGRAMS.
  (a) GRANTS- Section 316(a) (29 U.S.C. 777f(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) in the first sentence--
  (i) by striking `part or all' and inserting `the Federal share'; and
  (ii) by inserting `employment,' before `mobility,'; and
  (B) in the second sentence, by inserting `vocational skills development,'
  before `leisure education,';
  (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `a minimum of a three-year period.' and
  inserting `a period of not more than 3 years. Such a grant shall not be
  renewable, except that the Commissioner may renew such a grant if the
  Commissioner determines that the grant recipient will continue to develop
  model or innovative programs of exceptional merit or will contribute
  substantially to the development or improvement of special recreational
  programs in other locations.';
  (3) in paragraph (3), by striking `to be made, and that' and all that
  follows and inserting `to be made.'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(4) To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a State, agency,
  or organization shall submit an application to the Commissioner at such
  time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Commissioner
  may require, including a description of--
  `(A) the manner in which the findings and results of the project will be
  made generally available; and
  `(B) the means by which the service program will be continued after Federal
  assistance ends.
  `(5) Recreation programs funded under this section shall maintain, at a
  minimum, the same level of services over a 3-year project period.
  `(6) The Commissioner shall, not later than 180 days after the date of
  enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, develop means to
  objectively evaluate, and encourage the replication of, activities assisted
  by this section.
  `(7) The Commissioner shall require each recipient of a grant under this
  section to annually prepare and submit a report on the results of the
  activities assisted by the grant. The Commissioner shall not make financial
  assistance available to a grant recipient for a subsequent year until the
  Commissioner has received and evaluated such a report from the recipient
  regarding the current year.
  `(8) The Commissioner shall annually issue and provide for the dissemination
  of a report describing the findings and results of programs funded by
  this section.
  `(9) The Federal share of the costs of the recreation programs shall be 100
  percent for the first year of the grant, 75 percent for the second year,
  and 50 percent for the third year.'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 316(b) (29 U.S.C. 777f(b)) is
  amended by striking `$2,330,000' and all that follows and inserting `such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL COUNCIL ON DISABILITY
SEC. 401. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL COUNCIL ON DISABILITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 400(a) (29 U.S.C. 780(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by inserting `(A)' after `(1)';
  (B) by inserting after the first sentence the following:
  `(B) The President shall select members of the National Council after
  soliciting recommendations from representatives of--
  `(i) organizations representing a broad range of individuals with
  disabilities; and
  `(ii) organizations interested in individuals with disabilities.
  `(C) The members of the National Council shall be individuals with
  disabilities or individuals who have substantial knowledge or experience
  relating to disability policy or programs.';
  (C) in the last sentence, by striking `At least five members' and inserting
  `A majority of the members'; and
  (D) by adding at the end the following sentence: `The members of the
  National Council shall be broadly representative of minority and other
  individuals and groups.'; and
  (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
  `(2) The purpose of the National Council is to promote policies,  programs,
  practices, and procedures that--
  `(A) guarantee equal opportunity for all individuals with disabilities,
  regardless of the nature or severity of the disability; and
  `(B) empower individuals with disabilities to achieve economic
  self-sufficiency, independent living, and inclusion and integration into
  all aspects of society.'.
  (b) TERMS- Section 400(b) (29 U.S.C. 780(b)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1) Each member of the National Council shall serve for a term of 3 years,
  except that the terms of service of the members initially appointed after
  the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation, Comprehensive Services,
  and Developmental Disabilities Amendments of 1978 shall be (as specified
  by the President) for such fewer number of years as will provide for the
  expiration of terms on a staggered basis.'; and
  (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
  `(2)(A) No member of the Council may serve more than two consecutive full
  terms beginning on the date of initial service on the Council. Members
  may serve after the expiration of their terms until their successors have
  taken office.
  `(B) As used in this paragraph:
  `(i) The term `full term' means a term of 3 years.
  `(ii) The term `date of initial service' means, with respect to a member,
  the date on which the member is sworn in.'.
SEC. 402. DUTIES OF NATIONAL COUNCIL.
  (a) DUTIES- Section 401(a) (29 U.S.C. 781(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
  `(1) provide advice to the Director with respect to the policies and
  conduct of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research,
  including ways to improve research concerning individuals with disabilities
  and the methods of collecting and disseminating findings of such research;';
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), and (8) as paragraphs
  (5), (6), (8), (9), and (10);
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following paragraph:
  `(4) provide advice regarding priorities for the activities of the
  Interagency Disability Coordinating Council and review the recommendations
  of such Council for legislative and administrative changes to ensure that
  such recommendations are consistent with the purposes of the Council to
  promote the full integration, independence, and productivity of individuals
  with disabilities;';
  (4) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `all policies, programs, and activities'
  and inserting `policies, programs, practices, and procedures';
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting `and regulations' after `statutes'; and
  (C) in the matter following subparagraph (B), by striking `activities, and
  statutes' and inserting `practices, procedures, statutes, and regulations';
  (5) in paragraph (6) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection), by striking `and activities' and all that follows and inserting
  `practices, and procedures facilitate or impede the promotion of the
  policies set forth in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 400(a)(2);';
  (6) by inserting after paragraph (6) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)
  of this subsection) the following paragraph:
  `(7) gather information about the implementation, effectiveness, and impact
  of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.);';
  (7) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection), to read as follows:
  `(8) make recommendations to the President, the Congress, the Secretary,
  the Director of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation
  Research, and other officials of Federal agencies, respecting ways to
  better promote the policies set forth in section 400(a)(2);';
  (8) in paragraph (9) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection), to read as follows:
  `(9) not later than March 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the
  Congress and the President a report containing a summary of the activities
  and accomplishments of the Council with respect to the duties described
  in paragraphs (1) through (8);';
  (9) in paragraph (10) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this subsection),
  by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
  (10) by adding at the end the following:
  `(11) review and evaluate on a continuing basis new and emerging disability
  policy issues affecting individuals with disabilities at the Federal, State,
  and local levels, and in the private sector, including the need for and
  coordination of adult services, access to personal assistance services,
  school reform efforts and the impact of such efforts on individuals
  with disabilities, access to health care, and policies that operate as
  disincentives for the individuals to seek and retain employment.'.
  (b) REPORT- Section 401(b) (29 U.S.C. 781(b)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(b)(1) Not later than October 31, 1993, and annually thereafter,
  the National Council shall prepare and submit to the President and
  the appropriate committees of the Congress a report entitled `National
  Disability Policy: A Progress Report'.
  `(2) The report shall assess the status of the Nation in achieving
  the policies set forth in section 400(a)(2), with particular focus on
  the new and emerging issues impacting on the lives of individuals with
  disabilities. The report shall present, as appropriate, available data
  on health, housing, employment, insurance, transportation, recreation,
  training, prevention, early intervention, and education. The report shall
  include recommendations for policy change.
  `(3) In determining the issues to focus on and the findings, conclusions,
  and recommendations to include in the report, the Council shall seek input
  from the public, particularly individuals with disabilities, representatives
  of organizations representing a broad range of individuals with disabilities,
  and organizations and agencies interested in individuals with disabilities.'.
SEC. 403. COMPENSATION OF NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERS.
  Section 402(a) (29 U.S.C. 782(a)) is amended by striking `rate of basic
  pay payable for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under section 5332'
  and inserting `rate of pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive Service
  Schedule under section 5382'.
SEC. 404. STAFF OF NATIONAL COUNCIL.
  Section 403(b)(1) (29 U.S.C. 783(b)(1)) is amended by striking `annual
  rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule under
  section 5332' and inserting `rate of pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive
  Service Schedule under section 5382'.
SEC. 405. ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF NATIONAL COUNCIL.
  Section 404 (29 U.S.C. 784) is amended by adding at the end the following
  subsection:
  `(e) The National Council may use, with the consent of the agencies
  represented on the Interagency Disability Coordinating Council, and
  as authorized in title V, such services, personnel, information, and
  facilities as may be needed to carry out its duties under this title,
  with or without reimbursement to such agencies.'.
SEC. 406. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 405 (29 U.S.C. 785) is amended by striking `1987' and all that
  follows and inserting `1993 through 1997.'.
TITLE V--RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY
SEC. 501. RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY.
  (a) TITLE- Title V (29 U.S.C. 790 et seq.) is amended by striking the
  title heading and inserting the following:
`TITLE V--RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the item relating to the title heading for title V and inserting
  the following:
`TITLE V--RIGHTS AND ADVOCACY'.
SEC. 502. EFFECT ON EXISTING LAW.
  (a) REPEAL- Title V (29 U.S.C. 790 et seq.) is amended by repealing
  section 500.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the item relating to section 500.
SEC. 503. EMPLOYMENT OF INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Section 501(a) (29 U.S.C. 791(a)) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by striking `the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
  and' and inserting `the Director of the Office of Personnel Management,
  the Secretary of Veterans Affairs'; and
  (2) by amending the second sentence to read as follows: `Either the Director
  of the Office of Personnel Management and the Chairman of the Commission
  shall serve as co-chairpersons of the Committee or the Director or Chairman
  shall serve as the sole chairperson of the Committee, as the Director and
  Chairman jointly determine, from time to time, to be appropriate.'.
  (b) STANDARDS- Section 501 (29 U.S.C. 791) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new subsection:
  `(g) The standards used to determine whether this section has been violated
  in a complaint alleging nonaffirmative action employment discrimination
  under this section shall be the standards applied under title I of the
  Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.) and
  the provisions of sections 501 through 504, and 510, of the Americans
  with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12201-12204 and 12210), as such
  sections relate to employment.'.
SEC. 504. REFERENCES TO THE ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS
COMPLIANCE BOARD.
  (a) ACCESS BOARD- Section 502 (29 U.S.C. 792) is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(1), by
  striking `the `Board' and inserting `the `Access Board';
  (2) by striking `the Board' each place the term appears and inserting
  `the Access Board'; and
  (3) by striking `The Board' each place the term appears and inserting
  `The Access Board'.
  (b) COMPOSITION- Section 502(a) (29 U.S.C. 792(a)) of the Act is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A)--
  (i) by striking `Twelve' and inserting `Thirteen'; and
  (ii) by striking `six' and inserting `at least a majority'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting after clause (xi) the following:
  `(xii) Department of Commerce.';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(A)--
  (A) in the first sentence--
  (i) by inserting `(i)' after `(A)'; and
  (ii) by striking `three years' and inserting `4 years, except as provided
  in clause (ii)';
  (B) in the second sentence, by striking `four' and inserting `at least
  three'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following:
  `(ii)(I) One member appointed for a term beginning December 4, 1992 shall
  serve for a term of 3 years.
  `(II) One member appointed for a term beginning December 4, 1993 shall
  serve for a term of 2 years.
  `(III) One member appointed for a term beginning December 4, 1994 shall
  serve for a term of 1 year.
  `(IV) Members appointed for terms beginning before December 4, 1992 shall
  serve for terms of 3 years.';
  (3) in paragraph (3), by striking `such an' and inserting `a Federal'; and
  (4) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking `the daily rate prescribed for GS-18
  under section 5332' and inserting `the daily equivalent of the rate of
  pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382'.
  (c) FUNCTION- Section 502(b) (29 U.S.C. 792(b)) is amended to read as
  follows:
  `(b) It shall be the function of the Access Board to--
  `(1) ensure compliance with the standards prescribed pursuant to the Act
  entitled `An Act to ensure that certain buildings financed with Federal
  funds are so designed and constructed as to be accessible to the physically
  handicapped', approved August 12, 1968 (commonly known as the Architectural
  Barriers Act of 1968; 42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.) (including the application
  of such Act to the United States Postal Service), including enforcing all
  standards under such Act, and ensuring that all waivers and modifications
  to the standards are based on findings of fact and are not inconsistent
  with the provisions of this section;
  `(2) develop advisory guidelines for, and provide appropriate technical
  assistance to, individuals or entities with rights or duties under
  regulations prescribed pursuant to this title or titles II and III of
  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12131 et seq. and
  12181 et seq.) with respect to overcoming architectural, transportation,
  and communication barriers;
  `(3) establish and maintain minimum guidelines and requirements for the
  standards issued pursuant to the Act commonly known as the Architectural
  Barriers Act of 1968 and titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990;
  `(4) promote accessibility throughout all segments of society;
  `(5) investigate and examine alternative approaches to the
  architectural, transportation, communication, and attitudinal barriers
  confronting individuals with disabilities, particularly with respect
  to telecommunications devices, public buildings and monuments, parks
  and parklands, public transportation (including air, water, and surface
  transportation, whether interstate, foreign, intrastate, or local), and
  residential and institutional housing;
  `(6) determine what measures are being taken by Federal, State, and local
  governments and by other public or nonprofit agencies to eliminate the
  barriers described in paragraph (5);
  `(7) promote the use of the International Accessibility Symbol in all
  public facilities that are in compliance with the standards prescribed by
  the Administrator of General Services, the Secretary of Defense, and the
  Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the Act commonly
  known as the Architectural Barriers Act of 1968;
  `(8) make to the President and to the Congress reports that shall describe
  in detail the results of its investigations under paragraphs (5) and (6);
  `(9) make to the President and to the Congress such recommendations for
  legislative and administrative changes as the Access Board determines to
  be necessary or desirable to eliminate the barriers described in paragraph
  (5); and
  `(10) ensure that public conveyances, including rolling stock, are readily
  accessible to, and usable by, individuals with physical disabilities.'.
  (d) INVESTIGATIONS AND HEARINGS- Section 502(d) (29 U.S.C. 792(d))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), in the first sentence--
  (A) by striking `In carrying out' and all that follows through `shall
  conduct' and inserting `The Access Board shall conduct'; and
  (B) by striking `insure' and inserting `ensure'; and
  (2) by striking paragraph (3).
  (e) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENTS- Section 502(f) (29 U.S.C. 792(f)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `(f) The departments' and inserting the following:
  `(f)(1)(A) In carrying out the technical assistance responsibilities of the
  Access Board under this section, the Board may enter into an interagency
  agreement with another Federal department or agency.
  `(B) Any funds appropriated to such a department or agency for the purpose of
  providing technical assistance may be transferred to the Access Board. Any
  funds appropriated to the Access Board for the purpose of providing such
  technical assistance may be transferred to such department or agency.
  `(C) The Access Board may arrange to carry out the technical assistance
  responsibilities of the Board under this section through such other
  departments and agencies for such periods as the Board determines to
  be appropriate.
  `(D) The Access Board shall establish a procedure to ensure separation of
  its compliance and technical assistance responsibilities under this section.
  `(2) The departments'; and
  (2) in the second sentence of paragraph (2) (as so designated by paragraph
  (1) of this subsection)--
  (A) by striking `subsection' and inserting `paragraph';
  (B) by striking `Secretary' and inserting `Chairperson'; and
  (C) by striking `the daily pay rate for a person employed as a GS-18 under
  section 5332' and inserting `the daily equivalent of the rate of pay for
  level 4 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382'.
  (f) REPORT- Section 502(g) (29 U.S.C. 792(g)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation;
  (2) in paragraph (1) (as so designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection)--
  (A) in the second sentence, by striking `clauses (5) and (6) of subsection
  (b) of this section' and inserting `paragraphs (8) and (9) of such
  subsection'; and
  (B) by striking the third sentence and all that follows; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2) The Access Board shall, at the same time that the Access Board transmits
  the report required under section 7(b) of the Act commonly known as the
  Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4157(b)), transmit the report
  to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives
  and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.'.
  (g) REPORT CONTAINING ASSESSMENT- Section 502(h) (29 U.S.C. 792(h))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1);
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (1);
  (3) in paragraph (1) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection), by striking the second and third sentences; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
  `(2)(A) The Access Board may accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts,
  devises, and bequests of property, both real and personal, for the purpose of
  aiding and facilitating the functions of the Access Board under paragraphs
  (5) and (7) of subsection (b). Gifts and bequests of money and proceeds
  from sales of other property received as gifts, devises, or bequests shall
  be deposited in the Treasury and shall be disbursed upon the order of the
  Chairperson. Property accepted pursuant to this section, and the proceeds
  thereof, shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance with the terms
  of the gifts, devises, or bequests. For purposes of Federal income, estate,
  or gift taxes, property accepted under this section shall be considered
  as a gift, devise, or bequest to the United States.
  `(B) The Access Board shall publish regulations setting forth the criteria
  the Board will use in determining whether the acceptance of gifts,
  devises, and bequests of property, both real and personal, would reflect
  unfavorably upon the ability of the Board or any employee to carry out the
  responsibilities or official duties of the Board in a fair and objective
  manner, or would compromise the integrity of or the appearance of the
  integrity of a Government program or any official involved in that program.'.
  (h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 502(i) (29 U.S.C. 792(i)) is
  amended by striking `fiscal years 1987 through 1992' and all that follows
  and inserting `fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
SEC. 505. EMPLOYMENT UNDER FEDERAL CONTRACTS.
  (a) CONTRACTS- Section 503(a) (29 U.S.C. 793(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `$2,500' each place the term appears and inserting
  `$10,000'; and
  (2) in the first sentence, by striking `, in employing persons to carry
  out such contract,'.
  (b) WAIVER- Section 503(c) (29 U.S.C. 793(c)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2)(A) The Secretary of Labor may waive the requirements of the affirmative
  action clause required by regulations promulgated under subsection (a)
  with respect to any of a prime contractor's or subcontractor's facilities
  that are found to be in all respects separate and distinct from activities
  of the prime contractor or subcontractor related to the performance of
  the contract or subcontract, if the Secretary of Labor also finds that
  such a waiver will not interfere with or impede the effectuation of this Act.
  `(B) Such waivers shall be considered only upon the request of the contractor
  or subcontractor. The Secretary of Labor shall promulgate regulations that
  set forth the standards used for granting such a waiver.'.
  (c) STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES- Section 503 (29 U.S.C. 793) is amended by
  adding at the end the following:
  `(d) The standards used to determine whether this section has been violated
  in a complaint alleging nonaffirmative action employment discrimination
  under this section shall be the standards applied under title I of the
  Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.) and
  the provisions of sections 501 through 504, and 510, of the Americans
  with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12201-12204 and 12210), as such
  sections relate to employment.
  `(e) The Secretary shall develop procedures to ensure that administrative
  complaints filed under this section and under the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990 are dealt with in a manner that avoids duplication of effort
  and prevents imposition of inconsistent or conflicting standards for the
  same requirements under this section and the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990.'.
SEC. 506. NONDISCRIMINATION UNDER FEDERAL GRANTS AND PROGRAMS.
  Section 504 (29 U.S.C. 794) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(d) The standards used to determine whether this section has been violated
  in a complaint alleging employment discrimination under this section shall
  be the standards applied under title I of the Americans with Disabilities
  Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12111 et seq.) and the provisions of sections
  501 through 504, and 510, of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
  (42 U.S.C. 12201-12204 and 12210), as such sections relate to employment.'.
SEC. 507. SECRETARIAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
  (a) ACCESS- Subsections (a) and (c) of section 506 (29 U.S.C. 794b) are
  amended by inserting `Access' before `Board' each place the term appears.
  (b) COMMUNITY REHABILITATION PROGRAMS- Section 506(a)(1) (29
  U.S.C. 794b(a)(1)) is amended by striking `rehabilitation facilities'
  and inserting `community rehabilitation programs'.
  (c) COMPENSATION- Section 506(b) (29 U.S.C. 794b(b)) is amended by striking
  `the rate of basic pay payable for grade GS-18 of the General Schedule,
  under section 5332' and inserting `the rate of pay for level 4 of the
  Senior Executive Service Schedule under section 5382'.
  (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 506(c) (29 U.S.C. 794b(c)) is amended
  by striking `502(h)(2)' and inserting `502(h)(1)'.
SEC. 508. INTERAGENCY DISABILITY COORDINATING COUNCIL.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 507 (29 U.S.C. 794c) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 507. INTERAGENCY DISABILITY COORDINATING COUNCIL.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established an Interagency Disability
  Coordinating Council (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Council')
  composed of the Secretary of Education, the Secretary of Health and Human
  Services, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development, the Secretary of Transportation, the Assistant Secretary
  of the Interior for Indian Affairs, the Attorney General, the Director
  of the Office of Personnel Management, the Chairperson of the Equal
  Employment Opportunity Commission, the Chairperson of the Architectural
  and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, and such other officials as
  may be designated by the President.
  `(b) DUTIES- The Council shall--
  `(1) have the responsibility for developing and implementing agreements,
  policies, and practices designed to maximize effort, promote efficiency,
  and eliminate conflict, competition, duplication, and inconsistencies among
  the operations, functions, and jurisdictions of the various departments,
  agencies, and branches of the Federal Government responsible for the
  implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this title, and the
  regulations prescribed thereunder;
  `(2) be responsible for developing and implementing agreements,
  policies, and practices designed to coordinate operations, functions,
  and jurisdictions of the various departments and agencies of the Federal
  Government responsible for promoting the full integration into society,
  independence, and productivity of individuals with disabilities; and
  `(3) carry out such studies and other activities, subject to the availability
  of resources, with advice from the National Council on Disability, in order
  to identify methods for overcoming barriers to integration into society,
  independence, and productivity of individuals with disabilities.
  `(c) REPORT- On or before July 1 of each year, the Interagency Disability
  Coordinating Council shall prepare and submit to the President and to the
  Congress a report of the activities of the Council designed to promote
  and meet the employment needs of individuals with disabilities, together
  with such recommendations for legislative and administrative changes
  as the Council concludes are desirable to further promote this section,
  along with any comments submitted by the National Council on Disability
  as to the effectiveness of such activities and recommendations in meeting
  the needs of individuals with disabilities.  Nothing in this section shall
  impair any responsibilities assigned by any Executive order to any Federal
  department, agency, or instrumentality to act as a lead Federal agency
  with respect to any provisions of this title.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by striking the item relating to section 507 and inserting the
  following item:
`Sec. 507. Interagency Disability Coordinating Council.'.
SEC. 509. ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES.
  (a) GUIDELINES- Section 508 (29 U.S.C. 794d) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 508. ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES.
  `(a) GUIDELINES- The Secretary, through the Director of the National
  Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, and the Administrator
  of the General Services Administration, in consultation with the electronics
  and information technology industry and the Interagency Council on Accessible
  Technology, shall develop and establish guidelines for Federal agencies for
  electronic and information technology accessibility designed to ensure,
  regardless of the type of medium, that individuals with disabilities can
  produce information and data, and have access to information and data,
  comparable to the information and data, and access, respectively, of
  individuals who are not individuals with disabilities. Such guidelines
  shall be revised, as necessary, to reflect technological advances or changes.
  `(b) COMPLIANCE- Each Federal agency shall comply with the guidelines
  established under this section.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the item relating to section 508 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 508. Electronic and information technology accessibility guidelines.'.
SEC. 510. PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title V (29 U.S.C. 790 et seq.) is amended by adding at
  the end the following new section:
`SEC. 509. PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY OF INDIVIDUAL RIGHTS.
  `(a) PURPOSE- The purpose of this section is to support a system in
  each State to protect the legal and human rights of individuals with
  disabilities who--
  `(1) are ineligible for client assistance programs under section 112; and
  `(2) are ineligible for protection and advocacy programs under part C
  of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42
  U.S.C. 6041 et seq.) and the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill
  Individuals Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 10801 et seq.).
  `(b) APPROPRIATIONS LESS THAN $5,500,000-
  `(1) ALLOTMENTS- For any fiscal year in which the amount appropriated to
  carry out this section is less than $5,500,000, the Commissioner may make
  grants from such amount to eligible systems within States to plan for,
  develop outreach strategies for, and carry out protection and advocacy
  programs authorized under this section for individuals with disabilities
  who meet the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
  `(2) OTHER JURISDICTIONS- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam,
  American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic of Palau shall not be considered
  to be States.
  `(c) APPROPRIATIONS OF $5,500,000 OR MORE-
  `(1) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- For any fiscal year in which the amount
  appropriated to carry out this section equals or exceeds $5,500,000, the
  Commissioner shall set aside not less than 1.8 percent and not more than
  2.2 percent of the amount to provide training and technical assistance to
  the systems established under this section.
  `(2) ALLOTMENTS- For any such fiscal year, after the reservation required
  by paragraph (1) has been made, the Commissioner shall make allotments from
  the remainder of such amount in accordance with paragraph (3) to eligible
  systems within States to enable such systems to carry out protection and
  advocacy programs authorized under this section for such individuals.
  `(3) SYSTEMS WITHIN STATES-
  `(A) POPULATION BASIS- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), from
  such remainder for each such fiscal year, the Commissioner shall make an
  allotment to the eligible system within a State of an amount bearing the
  same ratio to such remainder as the population of the State bears to the
  population of all States.
  `(B) MINIMUMS- Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry
  out this section, and except as provided in paragraph (4), the allotment
  to any system under subparagraph (A) shall be not less than $100,000 or
  one-third of one percent of the remainder for the fiscal year for which
  the allotment is made, whichever is greater, and the allotment to any
  system under this section for any fiscal year that is less than $100,000
  or one-third of one percent of such remainder shall be increased to the
  greater of the two amounts.
  `(4) SYSTEMS WITHIN OTHER JURISDICTIONS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam, American Samoa,
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau shall not be considered to be States.
  `(B) ALLOTMENT- The eligible system within a jurisdiction described in
  subparagraph (A) shall be allotted not less than $50,000 for the fiscal
  year for which the allotment is made, except that the Republic of Palau
  may receive such allotment under this section only until the Compact of
  Free Association with Palau takes effect.
  `(5) Adjustment for inflation-
  `(A) STATES- For purposes of determining the minimum amount of an allotment
  under paragraph (3)(B), the amount $100,000 shall, in the case of such
  allotments for fiscal year 1994 and subsequent fiscal years, be increased
  to the extent necessary to offset the effects of inflation occurring since
  October 1992, as measured by the percentage increase in the Consumer Price
  Index For All Urban Consumers (U.S. city average) during the period ending
  on April 1 of the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the
  allotment is to be made.
  `(B) CERTAIN TERRITORIES- For purposes of determining the minimum amount
  of an allotment under paragraph (4)(B), the amount $50,000 shall, in the
  case of such allotments for fiscal year 1994 and subsequent fiscal years,
  be increased to the extent necessary to offset the effects of inflation
  occurring since October 1992, as measured by the percentage increase in
  the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (U.S. city average) during
  the period ending on April 1 of the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year
  for which the allotment is to be made.
  `(d) PROPORTIONAL REDUCTION- Amounts necessary to provide allotments
  to systems within States in accordance with subsection (c)(3)(B) as
  increased under subsection (c)(5), or to provide allotments in accordance
  with subsection (c)(4)(B) as increased in accordance with subsection
  (c)(5), shall be derived by proportionately reducing the allotments of
  the remaining systems within States under subsection (c)(3), but with
  such adjustments as may be necessary to prevent the allotment of any such
  remaining systems within States from being thereby reduced to less than the
  greater of $100,000 or one-third of one percent of the sums made available
  for purposes of this section for the fiscal year for which the allotment
  is made, as increased in accordance with subsection (c)(5).
  `(e) REALLOTMENT- Whenever the Commissioner determines that any amount
  of an allotment to a system within a State for any fiscal year described
  in subsection (c)(1) will not be expended by such system in carrying out
  the provisions of this section, the Commissioner shall make such amount
  available for carrying out the provisions of this section to one or more of
  the systems that the Commissioner determines will be able to use additional
  amounts during such year for carrying out such provisions. Any amount made
  available to a system for any fiscal year pursuant to the preceding sentence
  shall, for the purposes of this section, be regarded as an increase in the
  allotment of the system (as determined under the preceding provisions of
  this section) for such year.
  `(f) APPLICATION- In order to receive assistance under this section,
  an eligible system shall submit an application to the Commissioner, at
  such time, in such form and manner, and containing such information and
  assurances as the Commissioner determines necessary to meet the requirements
  of this section, including assurances that the eligible system will--
  `(1) have in effect a system to protect and advocate the rights of
  individuals with disabilities;
  `(2) have the same general authorities, including access to records and
  program income, as are set forth in part C of the Developmental Disabilities
  Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6041 et seq.);
  `(3) have the authority to pursue legal, administrative, and other
  appropriate remedies or approaches to ensure the protection of, and advocacy
  for, the rights of such individuals within the State who are ineligible
  for protection and advocacy programs under part C of the Developmental
  Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6041 et seq.) and
  the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986
  (42 U.S.C. 10801 et seq.) or client assistance programs under section 112;
  `(4) provide information on and make referrals to programs and services
  addressing the needs of individuals with disabilities in the State;
  `(5) develop a statement of objectives and priorities on an annual basis,
  and provide to the public, including individuals with disabilities and,
  as appropriate, their representatives, an opportunity to comment on the
  objectives and priorities established by, and activities of, the system
  including--
  `(A) the objectives and priorities for the activities of the system for
  each year and the rationale for the establishment of such objectives and
  priorities; and
  `(B) the coordination of programs provided through the system under this
  section with the advocacy programs of the client assistance program under
  section 112, the State long-term care ombudsman program established under
  the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.), the Developmental
  Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (42 U.S.C. 6000 et seq.),
  and the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986
  (42 U.S.C. 10801 et seq.);
  `(6) establish a grievance procedure for clients or prospective clients
  of the system to ensure that individuals with disabilities are afforded
  equal opportunity to access the services of the system; and
  `(7) provide assurances to the Commissioner that funds made available under
  this section will be used to supplement and not supplant the non-Federal
  funds that would otherwise be made available for the purpose for which
  Federal funds are provided.
  `(g) CARRYOVER AND DIRECT PAYMENT-
  `(1) DIRECT PAYMENT- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
  Commissioner shall pay directly to any system that complies with the
  provisions of this section, the amount of the allotment of the State
  involved under this section, unless the State provides otherwise.
  `(2) CARRYOVER- Any amount paid to a State for a fiscal year that remains
  unobligated at the end of such year shall remain available to such State
  for obligation during the next fiscal year for the purposes for which such
  amount was paid.
  `(h) LIMITATION ON DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS- For purposes of any audit,
  report, or evaluation of the performance of the program established under
  this section, the Commissioner shall not require such a program to disclose
  the identity of, or any other personally identifiable information related
  to, any individual requesting assistance under such program.
  `(i) ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE- As used in this section, the term `eligible
  system' means a protection and advocacy system that is established under
  part C of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act
  (42 U.S.C. 6041 et seq.) and that meets the requirements of subsection (f).
  `(j) ADMINISTRATIVE COST- An eligible system may not use more than 5 percent
  of any allotment under subsection (c) for the cost of administration of
  the system required by this section.
  `(k) DELEGATION- The Commissioner may delegate the administration of
  this program to the Commissioner of the Administration on Developmental
  Disabilities within the Department of Health and Human Services.
  `(l) REPORT- The Commissioner shall annually prepare and submit to the
  Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the
  Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate a report describing the
  types of services and activities being undertaken by programs funded under
  this section, the total number of individuals served under this section,
  the types of disabilities represented by such individuals, and the types
  of issues being addressed on behalf of such individuals.
  `(m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the
  fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by inserting after the item relating to section 508 the following item:
`Sec. 509. Protection and advocacy of individual rights.'.
TITLE VI--EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
Subtitle A--Community Service Employment Pilot Program for Individuals
With Disabilities
SEC. 601. PILOT PROGRAM.
  (a) DEFINITION- Section 611(a) (29 U.S.C. 795(a)) is amended by striking
  `section 7(8)' and inserting `section 7(8)(A)'.
  (b) PERSONAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES- Section 611(b)(1)(K) (29
  U.S.C. 795(b)(1)(K)) is amended by striking `attendant care' and inserting
  `personal assistance services'.
SEC. 602. TREATMENT OF PERSONAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES COSTS.
  Section 613(c) (29 U.S.C. 795b(c)) is amended by striking `attendant care'
  and inserting `personal assistance services'.
SEC. 603. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 616 (29 U.S.C. 795e) is amended--
  (1) by adding `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
  (2) by striking `; and' at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting a
  period; and
  (3) by striking paragraph (3).
SEC. 604. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 617 (29 U.S.C. 795f) is amended by striking `1987' and all that
  follows and inserting `1993 through 1997.'.
Subtitle B--Projects With Industry
SEC. 611. PROJECTS WITH INDUSTRY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 621(a) (29 U.S.C. 795g(a)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a)(1) The purpose of this part is to create and expand job and career
  opportunities for individuals with disabilities in the competitive
  labor market by engaging the talent and leadership of private industry
  as partners in the rehabilitation process, to identify competitive job
  and career opportunities and the skills needed to perform such jobs, to
  create practical job and career readiness and training programs, and to
  provide job placements and career advancement.
  `(2) The Commissioner, in consultation with the Secretaries of Labor and
  Commerce and with designated State units, may award grants to individual
  employers, community rehabilitation program providers, labor unions, trade
  associations, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, designated State units,
  and other entities to establish jointly financed Projects With Industry
  to create and expand job and career opportunities for individuals with
  disabilities, which projects shall--
  `(A) provide for the establishment of business advisory councils, which
  shall--
  `(i) be comprised of--
  `(I) representatives of private industry, business concerns, and organized
  labor; and
  `(II) individuals with disabilities and their representatives;
  `(ii) identify job and career availability within the community;
  `(iii) identify the skills necessary to perform the jobs and careers
  identified; and
  `(iv) prescribe training programs designed to develop appropriate job and
  career skills for individuals with disabilities;
  `(B) provide individuals with disabilities with training in realistic work
  settings in order to prepare the individuals for employment and career
  advancement in the competitive market;
  `(C) provide job placement and career advancement services;
  `(D) to the extent appropriate, provide for--
  `(i) the development and modification of jobs and careers to accommodate
  the special needs of such individuals;
  `(ii) the distribution of rehabilitation technology to such individuals; and
  `(iii) the modification of any facilities or equipment of the employer
  that are used primarily by individuals with disabilities; and
  `(E) provide individuals with disabilities with such support services as
  may be required in order to maintain the employment and career advancement
  for which the individuals have received training under this part.
  `(3) An individual shall be eligible for services described in paragraph (2)
  if the appropriate designated State unit determines the individual to be an
  individual with a disability under section 7(8)(A) or an individual with a
  severe disability under section 7(15)(A). In making such a determination,
  the unit shall rely on the determination made by the recipient of the
  grant under which the services are provided, to the extent appropriate
  and available and consistent with the requirements under this Act. If
  a designated State unit does not notify a recipient of a grant within
  60 days that the determination of the recipient is inappropriate, the
  recipient of the grant may consider the individual to be eligible.
  `(4) The Commissioner shall enter into an agreement with the grant recipient
  regarding the establishment of the project. Any agreement shall be jointly
  developed by the Commissioner, the grant recipient, and, to the extent
  practicable, the appropriate designated State unit and the individuals with
  disabilities (or their representatives) involved. Such agreements shall
  specify the terms of training and employment under the project, provide
  for the payment by the Commissioner of part of the costs of the project
  (in accordance with subsection (c)), and contain the items required under
  subsection (b) and such other provisions as the parties to the agreement
  consider to be appropriate.
  `(5) Any agreement shall include a description of a plan to annually conduct
  a review and evaluation of the operation of the project in accordance
  with standards developed by the Commissioner under subsection (d), and,
  in conducting the review and evaluation, to collect information on--
  `(A) the numbers and types of individuals with disabilities served;
  `(B) the types of services provided;
  `(C) the sources of funding;
  `(D) the percentage of resources committed to each type of service provided;
  `(E) the extent to which the employment status and earning power of
  individuals with disabilities changed following services;
  `(F) the extent of capacity building activities, including collaboration with
  business and industry and other organizations, agencies, and institutions;
  `(G) a comparison, if appropriate, of activities in prior years with
  activities in the most recent year; and
  `(H) the number of project participants who were terminated from project
  placements and the duration of such placements.
  `(6) The Commissioner may include, as part of agreements with grant
  recipients, authority for such grant recipients to provide technical
  assistance to--
  `(A) assist employers in hiring individuals with disabilities; or
  `(B) improve or develop relationships between--
  `(i) grant recipients or prospective grant recipients; and
  `(ii) employers or organized labor; or
  `(C) assist employers in understanding and meeting the requirements of
  the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) as
  the Act relates to employment of individuals with disabilities.'.
  (b) AGREEMENT- Section 621(b) (29 U.S.C. 795g(b)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(b) No payment shall be made by the Commissioner under any agreement with
  a grant recipient entered into under subsection (a) unless such agreement--
  `(1) provides an assurance that individuals with disabilities placed under
  such agreement shall receive at least the applicable minimum wage;
  `(2) provides an assurance that any individual with a disability placed
  under this part shall be afforded terms and benefits of employment equal to
  terms and benefits that are afforded to the similarly situated co-workers
  of the individual, and that such individuals with disabilities shall not
  be segregated from their co-workers; and
  `(3) provides an assurance that an annual evaluation report containing
  information specified under subsection (a)(5) shall be submitted as
  determined to be appropriate by the Commissioner.'.
  (c) EVALUATION- Section 621(d) (29 U.S.C. 795g(d)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraphs (1) through (3) and inserting the following:
  `(1) The Commissioner shall develop standards for the evaluation described
  in subsection (a)(5) and shall review and revise the evaluation standards
  as necessary, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3).
  `(2) In revising the standards for evaluation to be used by the grant
  recipients, the Commissioner shall obtain and consider recommendations for
  such standards from State vocational rehabilitation agencies, current and
  former grant recipients, professional organizations representing business
  and industry, organizations representing individuals with disabilities,
  individuals served by grant recipients, organizations representing community
  rehabilitation program providers, and labor organizations.'; and
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
  (d) ADMINISTRATION- Subsections (e) through (h) of section 621 (29
  U.S.C. 795g) are amended to read as follows:
  `(e)(1)(A) A grant may be awarded under this section for a period of up
  to 5 years and such grant may be renewed.
  `(B) Grants under this section shall be awarded on a competitive basis. To
  be eligible to receive such a grant, a prospective grant recipient shall
  submit an application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner,
  and containing such information as the Commissioner may require.
  `(2) The Commissioner shall to the extent practicable ensure an equitable
  distribution of payments made under this section among the States. To the
  extent funds are available, the Commissioner shall award grants under this
  section to new projects that will serve individuals with disabilities
  in States, portions of States, Indian tribes, or tribal organizations,
  that are currently unserved or underserved by projects.
  `(f)(1) The Commissioner shall, as necessary, develop and publish in the
  Federal Register in final form indicators of what constitutes minimum
  compliance consistent with the evaluation standards under subsection (d)(1).
  `(2) Each grant recipient shall report to the Commissioner at the end of
  each project year the extent to which the grant recipient is in compliance
  with the evaluation standards.
  `(3)(A) The Commissioner shall annually conduct on-site compliance reviews
  of at least 15 percent of grant recipients. The Commissioner shall select
  grant recipients for review on a random basis.
  `(B) The Commissioner shall use the indicators in determining compliance
  with the evaluation standards.
  `(C) The Commissioner shall ensure that at least one member of a team
  conducting such a review shall be an individual who--
  `(i) is not an employee of the Federal Government; and
  `(ii) has experience or expertise in conducting projects.
  `(D) The Commissioner shall ensure that--
  `(i) a representative of the appropriate designated State unit shall
  participate in the review; and
  `(ii) no person shall participate in the review of a grant recipient if--
  `(I) the grant recipient provides any direct financial benefit to the
  reviewer; or
  `(II) participation in the review would give the appearance of a conflict
  of interest.
  `(4) In making a determination concerning any subsequent grant under
  this section, the Commissioner shall consider the past performance of
  the applicant, if applicable. The Commissioner shall use compliance
  indicators developed under this subsection that are consistent with
  program evaluation standards developed under subsection (d) to assess
  minimum project performance for purposes of making continuation awards in
  the third, fourth, and fifth years.
  `(5) Each fiscal year the Commissioner shall include in the annual report
  to Congress required by section 13 an analysis of the extent to which grant
  recipients have complied with the evaluation standards. The Commissioner
  may identify individual grant recipients in the analysis. In addition,
  the Commissioner shall report the results of on-site compliance reviews,
  identifying individual grant recipients.
  `(g) The Commissioner may provide, directly or by way of grant, contract,
  or cooperative agreement, technical assistance to--
  `(1) entities conducting projects for the purpose of assisting such
  entities in--
  `(A) the improvement of or the development of relationships with private
  industry or labor; or
  `(B) the improvement of relationships with State vocational rehabilitation
  agencies; and
  `(2) entities planning the development of new projects.
  `(h) As used in this section:
  `(1) The term `agreement' means an agreement described in subsection (a)(4).
  `(2) The term `project' means a Project With Industry established under
  subsection (a)(2).
  `(3) The term `grant recipient' means a recipient of a grant under subsection
  (a)(2).'.
  (e) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 621 (29 U.S.C. 795g) is amended by striking
  subsection (i).
SEC. 612. BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title VI (29 U.S.C. 795 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) in the heading for part B, by striking `AND BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES
  FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH HANDICAPS';
  (2) by redesignating section 622 as section 641;
  (3) by inserting section 641 (as so redesignated) after section 638; and
  (4) by inserting before such section 641 the following:
`Part D--Business Opportunities for Individuals With Disabilities'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 641 (as so redesignated by
  subsection (a)(2) of this section) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a)' before `The Commissioner'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the 1993 through 1997 fiscal years.'.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The Act (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) is amended in
  the table of contents in the first section--
  (1) by striking the item relating to the part heading for part B of title
  VI and inserting the following:
`Part B--Projects With Industry';
  (2) by striking the item relating to section 622; and
  (3) by inserting after the item relating to section 638 the following:
`Part D--Business Opportunities for Individuals With Disabilities
`Sec. 641. Business opportunities for individuals with disabilities.'.
SEC. 613. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title VI (29 U.S.C. 795 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating section 623 as section 622; and
  (2) in section 622 (29 U.S.C. 795i) (as so redesignated by paragraph (1)
  of this subsection) by striking `section 621, $16,070,000' and all that
  follows and inserting `this part, such sums as may be necessary for each
  of fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to title VI is
  amended by inserting after the item relating to section 621 the following:
`Sec. 622. Authorization of appropriations.'.
Subtitle C--Supported Employment Services for Individuals With Severe
Disabilities
SEC. 621. SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT.
  (a) PROGRAM- Title VI is amended by striking part C (29 U.S.C. 795j et
  seq.) and inserting the following:
`Part C--Supported Employment Services for Individuals With Severe Disabilities
`SEC. 631. PURPOSE.
  `It is the purpose of this part to authorize allotments, in addition to
  grants for vocational rehabilitation services under title I, to assist
  States in developing collaborative programs with appropriate entities to
  provide supported employment services for individuals with the most severe
  disabilities who require supported employment services to enter or retain
  competitive employment.
`SEC. 632. ALLOTMENTS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) STATES- The Secretary shall allot the sums appropriated for each
  fiscal year to carry out this part among the States on the basis of relative
  population of each State, except that--
  `(A) no State shall receive less than $250,000, or one-third of one percent
  of the sums appropriated for the fiscal year for which the allotment is
  made, whichever is greater; and
  `(B) if the sums appropriated to carry out this part for the fiscal year
  exceed by $1,000,000 or more the sums appropriated to carry out this part in
  fiscal year 1992, no State shall receive less than $300,000, or one-third
  of one percent of the sums appropriated for the fiscal year for which the
  allotment is made, whichever is greater.
  `(2) CERTAIN TERRITORIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam, American Samoa,
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the Commonwealth
  of the Northern Mariana Islands shall not be considered to be States.
  `(B) ALLOTMENT- Each jurisdiction described in subparagraph (A) shall
  be allotted not less than one-eighth of one percent of the amounts
  appropriated for the fiscal year for which the allotment is made, except
  that the Republic of Palau may receive such allotment under this section
  only until the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect.
  `(b) REALLOTMENT- Whenever the Commissioner determines that any amount of
  an allotment to a State for any fiscal year will not be expended by such
  State for carrying out the provisions of this part, the Commissioner
  shall make such amount available for carrying out the provisions of
  this part to one or more of the States that the Commissioner determines
  will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out
  such provisions. Any amount made available to a State for any fiscal year
  pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, for the purposes of this section,
  be regarded as an increase in the allotment of the State (as determined
  under the preceding provisions of this section) for such year.
`SEC. 633. AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES.
  `Funds provided under this part may be used to provide supported employment
  services to individuals who are eligible under this part. Funds provided
  under this part, title I, or subsection (c) or (f) of section 311 may not
  be used to provide extended services to individuals who are eligible under
  this part or title I.
`SEC. 634. ELIGIBILITY.
  `An individual shall be eligible under this part to receive supported
  employment services authorized under this Act if--
  `(1) the individual is eligible for vocational rehabilitation services;
  `(2) the individual is determined to be an individual with the most severe
  disabilities; and
  `(3) a comprehensive assessment of rehabilitation needs of the
  individual provided under section 102(b)(1)(A), including an evaluation
  of rehabilitation, career, and job needs, identifies supported employment
  as the appropriate rehabilitation objective for the individual.
`SEC. 635. STATE PLAN.
  `(a) STATE PLAN SUPPLEMENTS- To be eligible for an allotment under this
  part, a State shall submit to the Commissioner, as part of the State
  plan under section 101, a State plan supplement for providing supported
  employment services authorized under this Act to individuals who are
  eligible under this Act to receive the services. Each State shall make
  such annual revisions in the plan supplement as may be necessary.
  `(b) CONTENTS- Each such plan supplement shall--
  `(1) designate each agency that the State designated under section 101(a)(1)
  as the agency to administer the program assisted under this part;
  `(2) summarize the results of the  comprehensive, statewide assessment
  conducted under section 101(a)(5), with respect to the rehabilitation and
  career needs of individuals with severe disabilities and the need for
  supported employment services, including needs related to coordination
  and use of information within the State relating to section 618(b)(1)(C)
  of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1418(b)(1)(C));
  `(3) describe the quality, scope, and extent of supported employment services
  authorized under this Act to be provided to individuals who are eligible
  under this Act to receive the services and specify the goals and plans of the
  State with respect to the distribution of funds received under section 632;
  `(4) demonstrate evidence of the efforts of the designated State agency
  to identify and make arrangements (including entering into cooperative
  agreements) with other State agencies and other appropriate entities to
  assist in the provision of supported employment services;
  `(5) demonstrate evidence of the efforts of the designated State agency
  to identify and make arrangements (including entering into cooperative
  agreements) with other public or nonprofit agencies or organizations within
  the State, employers, natural supports, and other entities with respect
  to the provision of extended services;
  `(6) provide assurances that--
  `(A) funds made available under this part will only be used to provide
  supported employment services authorized under this Act to individuals
  who are eligible under this part to receive the services;
  `(B) that the comprehensive assessments of individuals with severe
  disabilities conducted under section 102(b)(1)(A) and funded under title
  I  will include consideration of supported employment as an appropriate
  rehabilitation objective;
  `(C) an individualized written rehabilitation program, as required by section
  102, will be developed and updated using funds under title I in order to--
  `(i) specify the supported employment services to be provided;
  `(ii) specify the expected extended services needed; and
  `(iii) identify the source of extended services, which may include natural
  supports, or to the extent that it is not possible to identify the source
  of extended services at the time the individualized written rehabilitation
  program is developed, a statement describing the basis for concluding that
  there is a reasonable expectation that such sources will become available;
  `(D) the State will use funds provided under this part only to supplement,
  and not supplant, the funds provided under title I, in providing supported
  employment services specified in the individualized written rehabilitation
  program;
  `(E) services provided under an individualized written rehabilitation
  program will be coordinated with services provided under other individualized
  plans established under other Federal or State programs;
  `(F) to the extent jobs skills training is provided, the training will be
  provided on-site; and
  `(G) supported employment services will include placement in an integrated
  setting for the maximum number of hours possible based on the unique
  strengths, resources, interests, concerns, abilities, and capabilities of
  individuals with the most severe disabilities;
  `(7) provide assurances that the State agencies designated under paragraph
  (1) will expend not more than 5 percent of the allotment of the State
  under this part for administrative costs of carrying out this part; and
  `(8) contain such other information and be submitted in such manner as
  the Commissioner may require.
`SEC. 636. RESTRICTION.
  `Each State agency designated under section 635(b)(1) shall collect the
  client information required by section 13 separately for supported employment
  clients under this part and for supported employment clients under title I.
`SEC. 637. SAVINGS PROVISION.
  `(a) SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT SERVICES- Nothing in this Act shall be construed
  to prohibit a State from providing supported employment services in
  accordance with the State plan submitted under section 101 by using funds
  made available through a State allotment under section 110.
  `(b) POSTEMPLOYMENT SERVICES- Nothing in this part shall be construed
  to prohibit a State from providing discrete postemployment services in
  accordance with the State plan submitted under section 101 by using funds
  made available through a State allotment under section 110 to an individual
  who is eligible under this part.
`SEC. 638. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part such sums
  as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents relating to title VI is
  amended by striking the items relating to part C and inserting the following:
`Part C--Supported Employment Services for Individuals With Severe Disabilities
`Sec. 631. Purpose.
`Sec. 632. Allotments.
`Sec. 633. Availability of services.
`Sec. 634. Eligibility.
`Sec. 635. State plan.
`Sec. 636. Restriction.
`Sec. 637. Savings provision.
`Sec. 638. Authorization of appropriations.'.
TITLE VII--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
SEC. 701. SERVICES AND CENTERS.
  The Act is amended--
  (1) by striking title VII (29 U.S.C. 796 et seq.); and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new title:
`TITLE VII--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
`CHAPTER 1--INDIVIDUALS WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES
`PART A--GENERAL PROVISIONS
`SEC. 701. PURPOSE.
  `The purpose of this chapter is to promote a philosophy of independent
  living, including a philosophy of consumer control, peer support, self-help,
  self-determination, equal access, and individual and system advocacy, in
  order to maximize the leadership, empowerment, independence, and productivity
  of individuals with disabilities, and the integration and full inclusion of
  individuals with disabilities into the mainstream of American society, by--
  `(1) providing financial assistance to States for providing, expanding,
  and improving the provision of independent living services;
  `(2) providing financial assistance to develop and support statewide
  networks of centers for independent living; and
  `(3) providing financial assistance to States for improving working
  relationships among State independent living rehabilitation service programs,
  centers for independent living, Statewide Independent Living Councils
  established under section 705, State vocational rehabilitation programs
  receiving assistance under title I, State programs of supported employment
  services receiving assistance under part C of title VI, client assistance
  programs receiving assistance under section 112, programs funded under
  other titles of this Act, programs funded under other Federal programs,
  and programs funded through non-Federal sources.
`SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.
  `As used in this chapter:
  `(1) CENTER FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING- The term `center for independent
  living' means a consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability,
  nonresidential private nonprofit agency that--
  `(A) is designed and operated within a local community by individuals with
  disabilities; and
  `(B) provides an array of independent living services.
  `(2) CONSUMER CONTROL- The term `consumer control' means, with respect
  to an entity, that the entity vests power and authority in individuals
  with disabilities.
`SEC. 703. ELIGIBILITY FOR RECEIPT OF SERVICES.
  `Services may be provided under this chapter to any individual with a
  severe disability, as defined in section 7(15)(B).
`SEC. 704. STATE PLAN.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) REQUIREMENT- To be eligible to receive financial assistance under this
  chapter, a State shall submit to the Commissioner, and obtain approval of,
  a State plan containing such provisions as the Commissioner may require,
  including, at a minimum, the provisions required in this section.
  `(2) JOINT DEVELOPMENT- The plan under paragraph (1) shall be jointly
  developed and signed by--
  `(A) the director of the designated State unit; and
  `(B) the chairperson of the Statewide Independent Living Council, acting
  on behalf of and at the direction of the Council.
  `(3) PERIODIC REVIEW AND REVISION- The plan shall provide for the review
  and revision of the plan, not less than once every 3 years, to ensure the
  existence of appropriate planning, financial support and coordination, and
  other assistance to appropriately address, on a statewide and comprehensive
  basis, needs in the State for--
  `(A) the provision of State independent living services;
  `(B) the development and support of a statewide network of centers for
  independent living; and
  `(C) working relationships between--
  `(i) programs providing independent living services and independent living
  centers; and
  `(ii) the vocational rehabilitation program established under title I,
  and other programs providing services for individuals with disabilities.
  `(4) DATE OF SUBMISSION- The State shall submit the plan to the Commissioner
  90 days before the completion date of the preceding plan. If a State fails
  to submit such a plan that complies with the requirements of this section,
  the Commissioner may withhold financial assistance under this chapter
  until such time as the State submits such a plan.
  `(b) STATEWIDE INDEPENDENT LIVING COUNCIL- The plan shall provide for the
  establishment of a Statewide Independent Living Council in accordance with
  section 705.
  `(c) DESIGNATION OF STATE UNIT- The plan shall designate the designated
  State unit of such State as the agency that, on behalf of the State, shall--
  `(1) receive, account for, and disburse funds received by the State under
  this chapter based on the plan;
  `(2) provide administrative support services for programs under parts B
  and C;
  `(3) keep such records and afford such access to such records as the
  Commissioner finds to be necessary with respect to the programs; and
  `(4) submit such additional information or provide such assurances as the
  Commissioner may require with respect to the programs.
  `(d) OBJECTIVES- The plan shall--
  `(1) specify the objectives to be achieved under the plan and establish
  timelines for the achievement of the objectives; and
  `(2) explain how such objectives are consistent with and further the
  purpose of this chapter.
  `(e) INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES- The plan shall provide that the State will
  provide independent living services under this chapter to individuals with
  severe disabilities, and will provide the services to such an individual
  in accordance with an independent living plan mutually agreed upon by
  an appropriate staff member of the service provider and the individual,
  unless the individual signs a waiver stating that such a plan is unnecessary.
  `(f) SCOPE AND ARRANGEMENTS- The plan shall describe the extent and scope
  of independent living services to be provided under this chapter to meet
  such objectives. If the State makes arrangements, by grant or contract, for
  providing such services, such arrangements shall be described in the plan.
  `(g) NETWORK- The plan shall set forth a design for the establishment of
  a statewide network of centers for independent living that comply with
  the standards and assurances set forth in section 725.
  `(h) CENTERS- In States in which State funding for centers for independent
  living equals or exceeds the amount of funds allotted to the State under
  part C, as provided in section 723, the plan shall include policies,
  practices, and procedures governing the awarding of grants to centers for
  independent living and oversight of such centers consistent with section 723.
  `(i) COOPERATION, COORDINATION, AND WORKING RELATIONSHIPS AMONG VARIOUS
  ENTITIES- The plan shall set forth the steps that will be taken to maximize
  the cooperation, coordination, and working relationships among--
  `(1) the independent living rehabilitation service program, the Statewide
  Independent Living Council, and centers for independent living; and
  `(2) the designated State unit, other State agencies represented on such
  Council, other councils that address the needs of specific disability
  populations and issues, and other public and private entities determined
  to be appropriate by the Council.
  `(j) COORDINATION OF SERVICES- The plan shall describe how services
  funded under this chapter will be coordinated with, and complement, other
  services, in order to avoid unnecessary duplication with other Federal,
  State, and local programs.
  `(k) COORDINATION BETWEEN FEDERAL AND STATE SOURCES- The plan shall describe
  efforts to coordinate Federal and State funding for centers for independent
  living and independent living services.
  `(l) OUTREACH- With respect to services and centers funded under this
  chapter, the plan shall set forth steps to be taken regarding outreach to
  populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this title,
  including minority groups and urban and rural populations.
  `(m) REQUIREMENTS- The plan shall provide satisfactory assurances that
  all recipients of financial assistance under this chapter will--
  `(1) notify all individuals seeking or receiving services under this
  chapter about the availability of the client assistance program under
  section 112, the purposes of the services provided under such program,
  and how to contact such program;
  `(2) take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified
  individuals with disabilities on the same terms and conditions required
  with respect to the employment of such individuals under the provisions
  of section 503;
  `(3) adopt such fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be
  necessary to ensure the proper disbursement of and accounting for funds
  paid to the State under this chapter;
  `(4)(A) maintain records that fully disclose--
  `(i) the amount and disposition by such recipient of the proceeds of such
  financial assistance;
  `(ii) the total cost of the project or undertaking in connection with
  which such financial assistance is given or used; and
  `(iii) the amount of that portion of the cost of the project or undertaking
  supplied by other sources;
  `(B) maintain such other records as the Commissioner determines to be
  appropriate to facilitate an effective audit;
  `(C) afford such access to records maintained under subparagraphs (A) and
  (B) as the Commissioner determines to be appropriate; and
  `(D) submit such reports with respect to such records as the Commissioner
  determines to be appropriate;
  `(5) provide access to the Commissioner and the Comptroller General or any
  of their duly authorized representatives, for the purpose of conducting
  audits and examinations, of any books, documents, papers, and records of
  the recipients that are pertinent to the financial assistance received
  under this chapter; and
  `(6) provide for public hearings regarding the contents of the plan during
  both the formulation and review of the plan.
  `(n) EVALUATION- The plan shall establish a method for the periodic
  evaluation of the effectiveness of the plan in meeting the objectives
  established in subsection (d), including evaluation of satisfaction by
  individuals with disabilities.
`SEC. 705. STATEWIDE INDEPENDENT LIVING COUNCIL.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- To be eligible to receive financial assistance under
  this chapter, each State shall establish a Statewide Independent Living
  Council (referred to in this section as the `Council'). The Council shall
  not be established as an entity within another State agency.
  `(b) COMPOSITION AND APPOINTMENT-
  `(1) APPOINTMENT- Members of the Council shall be appointed by the
  Governor or the appropriate entity within the State responsible for
  making appointments, within 90 days after the date of enactment of the
  Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. The appointing authority shall
  select members after soliciting recommendations from representatives of
  organizations representing a broad range of individuals with disabilities
  and organizations interested in individuals with disabilities.
  `(2) COMPOSITION- The Council shall include--
  `(A) at least one director of a center for independent living chosen by
  the directors of centers for independent living within the State; and
  `(B) as ex officio, nonvoting members--
  `(i) a representative from the designated State unit; and
  `(ii) representatives from other State agencies that provide services for
  individuals with disabilities.
  `(3) ADDITIONAL MEMBERS- The Council may include--
  `(A) other representatives from centers for independent living;
  `(B) parents and guardians of individuals with disabilities;
  `(C) advocates of and for individuals with disabilities;
  `(D) representatives from private businesses;
  `(E) representatives from organizations that provide services for individuals
  with disabilities; and
  `(F) other appropriate individuals.
  `(4) QUALIFICATIONS- The Council shall be composed of members--
  `(A) who provide statewide representation;
  `(B) who represent a broad range of individuals with disabilities;
  `(C) who are knowledgeable about centers for independent living and
  independent living services; and
  `(D) a majority of whom are persons who are--
  `(i) individuals with disabilities described in section 7(8)(B); and
  `(ii) not employed by any State agency or center for independent living.
  `(5) CHAIRPERSON-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Council shall
  select a chairperson from among the membership of the Council.
  `(B) DESIGNATION BY GOVERNOR- In States in which the Governor does not
  have veto power pursuant to State law, the Governor shall designate a
  member of the Council to serve as the chairperson of the Council or shall
  require the Council to so designate such a member.
  `(6) TERMS OF APPOINTMENT-
  `(A) LENGTH OF TERM- Each member of the Council shall serve for a term of
  3 years, except that--
  `(i) a member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration
  of the term for which a predecessor was appointed, shall be appointed for
  the remainder of such term; and
  `(ii) the terms of service of the members initially appointed shall be
  (as specified by the appointing authority) for such fewer number of years
  as will provide for the expiration of terms on a staggered basis.
  `(B) NUMBER OF TERMS- No member of the Council may serve more than two
  consecutive full terms.
  `(7) VACANCIES- Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the Council
  shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment. The vacancy
  shall not affect the power of the remaining members to execute the duties
  of the Council.
  `(c) DUTIES- The Council shall--
  `(1) jointly develop and submit (in conjunction with the designated State
  agency) the State plan required in section 704;
  `(2) monitor, review, and evaluate the implementation of the State plan;
  `(3) coordinate activities with the State Rehabilitation Advisory Council
  established under section 105 and councils that address the needs of
  specific disability populations and issues under other Federal law;
  `(4) ensure that all regularly scheduled meetings of the Council are open
  to the public and sufficient advance notice is provided; and
  `(5) submit to the Commissioner such periodic reports as the Commissioner
  may reasonably request, and keep such records, and afford such access to
  such records, as the Commissioner finds necessary to verify such reports.
  `(d) HEARINGS AND FORUMS- The Council is authorized to hold such hearings
  and forums as the Council may determine to be necessary to carry out the
  duties of the Council.
  `(e) PLAN-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Council shall prepare, in conjunction with the
  designated State unit, a plan for the provision of such resources, including
  such staff and personnel, as may be necessary to carry out the functions
  of the Council under this section, with funds made available under this
  chapter and part C of title I and from other public and private sources. The
  resource plan shall, to the maximum extent possible, rely on the use of
  resources in existence during the period of implementation of the plan.
  `(2) SUPERVISION AND EVALUATION- Each Council shall, consistent with
  State law, supervise and evaluate such staff and other personnel as may
  be necessary to carry out the functions of the Council under this section.
  `(3) CONFLICT OF INTEREST- While assisting the Council in carrying out
  its duties, staff and other personnel shall not be assigned duties by
  the designated State agency or any other agency or office of the State,
  that would create a conflict of interest.
  `(f) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- The Council may use such resources to
  reimburse members of the Council for reasonable and necessary expenses
  of attending Council meetings and performing Council duties (including
  child care and personal assistance services), and to pay compensation to a
  member of the Council, if such member is not employed or must forfeit wages
  from other employment, for each day the member is engaged in performing
  Council duties.
  `(g) USE OF EXISTING COUNCILS- To the extent that a State has established
  a Council before September 30, 1992, that is comparable to the Council
  described in this section, such Council shall be considered to be in
  compliance with this section. Within 1 year after the date of enactment
  of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, such State shall establish
  a Council that complies in full with this section.
`SEC. 706. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMISSIONER.
  `(a) APPROVAL OF STATE PLANS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall approve any State plan submitted
  under section 704 that the Commissioner determines meets the requirements
  of section 704, and shall disapprove any such plan that does not meet such
  requirements, as soon as practicable after receiving the plan. Prior to
  such disapproval, the Commissioner shall notify the State of the intention
  to disapprove the plan, and shall afford such State reasonable notice and
  opportunity for a hearing.
  `(2) PROCEDURES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the provisions
  of subsections (c) and (d) of section 107 shall apply to any State plan
  submitted to the Commissioner under section 704.
  `(B) APPLICATION- For purposes of the application described in subparagraph
  (A), all references in such provisions--
  `(i) to the Secretary shall be deemed to be references to the Commissioner;
  and
  `(ii) to section 101 shall be deemed to be references to section 704.
  `(b) INDICATORS- Not later than October 1, 1993, the Commissioner shall
  develop and publish in the Federal Register indicators of minimum compliance
  consistent with the standards set forth in section 725.
  `(c) ON-SITE COMPLIANCE REVIEWS-
  `(1) REVIEWS- The Commissioner shall annually conduct on-site compliance
  reviews of at least 15 percent of the centers for independent living that
  receive funds under part C and shall periodically conduct such a review
  of each such center. The Commissioner shall select such centers for review
  on a random basis.
  `(2) QUALIFICATIONS OF EMPLOYEES CONDUCTING REVIEWS- The Commissioner shall--
  `(A) to the maximum extent practicable, carry out such a review by using
  employees of the Department who are knowledgeable about the provision of
  independent living services;
  `(B) ensure that the employee of the Department with responsibility for
  supervising such a review shall have such knowledge; and
  `(C) ensure that at least one member of a team conducting such a review
  shall be an individual who--
  `(i) is not a government employee; and
  `(ii) has experience in the operation of centers for independent living.
  `(d) REPORTS- The Commissioner shall include, in the annual report required
  under section 13, information on the extent to which centers for independent
  living receiving funds under part C have complied with the standards and
  assurances set forth in section 725. The Commissioner may identify individual
  centers for independent living in the analysis. The Commissioner shall report
  the results of on-site compliance reviews, identifying individual centers
  for independent living and other recipients of assistance under this chapter.
`PART B--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES
`SEC. 711. ALLOTMENTS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) STATES-
  `(A) POPULATION BASIS- Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C),
  from sums appropriated for each fiscal year to carry out this part, the
  Commissioner shall make an allotment to each State whose State plan has
  been approved under section 706 of an amount bearing the same ratio to such
  sums as the population of the State bears to the population of all States.
  `(B) MAINTENANCE OF 1992 AMOUNTS- Subject to the availability of
  appropriations to carry out this part, the amount of any allotment made
  under subparagraph (A) to a State for a fiscal year shall not be less
  than the amount of an allotment made to the State for fiscal year 1992
  under part A of this title, as in effect on the day before the date of
  enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992.
  `(C) MINIMUMS- Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry
  out this part, and except as provided in subparagraph (B), the allotment
  to any State under subparagraph (A) shall be not less than $275,000 or
  one-third of one percent of the sums made available for the fiscal year
  for which the allotment is made, whichever is greater, and the allotment
  of any State under this section for any fiscal year that is less than
  $275,000 or one-third of one percent of such sums shall be increased to
  the greater of the two amounts.
  `(2) CERTAIN TERRITORIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam, American Samoa,
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau shall not be considered to be States.
  `(B) ALLOTMENT- Each jurisdiction described in subparagraph (A) shall
  be allotted not less than one-eighth of one percent of the amounts made
  available for purposes of this part for the fiscal year for which the
  allotment is made, except that the Republic of Palau may receive such
  allotment under this section only until the Compact of Free Association
  with Palau takes effect.
  `(3) ADJUSTMENT FOR INFLATION- For purposes of determining the minimum
  amount of an allotment under paragraph (1)(C), the amount $275,000 shall,
  in the case of such allotments for fiscal year 1994 and subsequent fiscal
  years, be increased to the extent necessary to offset the effects of
  inflation occurring since October 1992, as measured by the percentage
  increase in the Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers (U.S. city
  average) during the period ending on April 1 of the fiscal year preceding
  the fiscal year for which the allotment is to be made.
  `(b) PROPORTIONAL REDUCTION- Subject to subsection (a)(1)(B), amounts
  necessary to provide allotments to States in accordance with subsection
  (a)(1)(B), or in accordance with subsection (a)(1)(C) as increased under
  subsection (a)(3), or to provide allotments under subsection (a)(2)(B),
  shall be derived by proportionately reducing the allotments of the remaining
  States under subsection (a)(1), but with such adjustments as may be necessary
  to prevent the allotment of any such remaining States from being thereby
  reduced to less than the greater of $275,000 or one-third of one percent
  of the sums made available for purposes of this part for the fiscal year
  for which the allotment is made, as increased in accordance with subsection
  (a)(3).
  `(c) REALLOTMENT- Whenever the Commissioner determines that any amount
  of an allotment to a State for any fiscal year will not be expended by
  such State in carrying out the provisions of this part, the Commissioner
  shall make such amount available for carrying out the provisions of
  this part to one or more of the States that the Commissioner determines
  will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out
  such provisions. Any amount made available to a State for any fiscal year
  pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, for the purposes of this section,
  be regarded as an increase in the allotment of the State (as determined
  under the preceding provisions of this section) for such year.
`SEC. 712. PAYMENTS TO STATES FROM ALLOTMENTS.
  `(a) PAYMENTS- From the allotment of each State for a fiscal year under
  section 711, the State shall be paid the Federal share of the expenditures
  incurred during such year under its State plan approved under section
  706. Such payments may be made (after necessary adjustments on account
  of previously made overpayments or underpayments) in advance or by way
  of reimbursement, and in such installments and on such conditions as the
  Commissioner may determine.
  `(b) FEDERAL SHARE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Federal share with respect to any State for any fiscal
  year shall be 90 percent of the expenditures incurred by the State during
  such year under its State plan approved under section 706.
  `(2) NON-FEDERAL SHARE- The non-Federal share of the cost of any project that
  receives assistance through an allotment under this part may be provided in
  cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services.
  `(3) DETERMINATION- For the purpose of determining the Federal share
  with respect to any State, expenditures by a political subdivision of
  such State shall, subject to regulations prescribed by the Commissioner,
  be regarded as expenditures by such State.
`SEC. 713. AUTHORIZED USES OF FUNDS.
  `The State may use funds received under this part to provide the resources
  described in section 705(e), relating to the Statewide Independent Living
  Council, and may use funds received under this part--
  `(1) to provide independent living services to individuals with severe
  disabilities;
  `(2) to demonstrate ways to expand and improve independent living services;
  `(3) to support the operation of centers for independent living;
  `(4) to support activities to increase the capacities of public or nonprofit
  agencies and organizations and other entities to develop comprehensive
  approaches or systems for providing independent living services;
  `(5) to conduct studies and analyses, gather information, develop model
  policies and procedures, and present information, approaches, strategies,
  findings, conclusions, and recommendations to Federal, State, and local
  policymakers in order to enhance independent living services for individuals
  with disabilities;
  `(6) to train individuals with disabilities and individuals providing
  services to individuals with disabilities and other persons regarding the
  independent living philosophy; and
  `(7) to provide outreach to populations that are unserved or underserved
  by programs under this title, including minority groups and urban and
  rural populations.
`SEC. 714. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996,
  and 1997.
`PART C--CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
`SEC. 721. PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- From the funds appropriated for fiscal year 1994 and
  for each subsequent fiscal year to carry out this part, the Commissioner
  shall allot such sums as may be necessary to States and other entities in
  accordance with subsections (b) through (d).
  `(b) TRAINING-
  `(1) GRANTS; CONTRACTS; OTHER ARRANGEMENTS- For any fiscal year in which
  the funds appropriated to carry out this part exceed the funds appropriated
  to carry out this part for fiscal year 1993, the Commissioner shall first
  reserve from such excess, to provide training and technical assistance for
  such fiscal year, not less than 1.8 percent, and not more than 2 percent,
  of such funds.
  `(2) ALLOCATION- From the funds reserved under paragraph (1), the
  Commissioner shall make grants to, and enter into contracts and other
  arrangements with, entities who have experience in the operation of centers
  for independent living to provide such training and technical assistance
  with respect to planning, developing, conducting, administering, and
  evaluating centers for independent living.
  `(3) FUNDING PRIORITIES- The Commissioner shall conduct a survey of
  Statewide Independent Living Councils and centers for independent living
  regarding training and technical assistance needs in order to determine
  funding priorities for such grants, contracts, and other arrangements.
  `(4) REVIEW- To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract
  or other arrangement under this subsection, such an entity shall submit
  an application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner, and
  containing a proposal to provide such training and technical assistance,
  and containing such additional information as the Commissioner may require.
  The Commissioner shall provide for peer review of grant applications by
  panels that include persons who are not government employees and who have
  experience in the operation of centers for independent living.
  `(5) PROHIBITION ON COMBINED FUNDS- No funds reserved by the Commissioner
  under this subsection may be combined with funds appropriated under any
  other Act or part of this Act if the purpose of combining funds is to make
  a single discretionary grant or a single discretionary payment, unless
  such funds appropriated under this chapter are separately identified in
  such grant or payment and are used for the purposes of this chapter.
  `(c) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) STATES-
  `(A) POPULATION BASIS- Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C)
  and after the reservation required by subsection (b) has been made,
  from the remainder of the amounts appropriated for each such fiscal year
  to carry out this part, the Commissioner shall make an allotment to each
  State whose State plan has been approved under section 706 of an amount
  bearing the same ratio to such remainder as the population of the State
  bears to the population of all States.
  `(B) MAINTENANCE OF 1992 AMOUNTS- Subject to the availability of
  appropriations to carry out this part, the amount of any allotment made
  under subparagraph (A) to a State for a fiscal year shall not be less than
  the amount of financial assistance received by centers for independent
  living in the State for fiscal year 1992 under part B of this title, as
  in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation
  Act Amendments of 1992.
  `(C) MINIMUMS- Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out
  this part and except as provided in subparagraph (B), for a fiscal year in
  which the amounts appropriated to carry out this part exceed the amounts
  appropriated for fiscal year 1992 to carry out part B of this title, as
  in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation
  Act Amendments of 1992--
  `(i) if such excess is not less than $8,000,000, the allotment to any
  State under subparagraph (A) shall be not less than $450,000 or one-third
  of one percent of the sums made available for the fiscal year for which
  the allotment is made, whichever is greater, and the allotment of any
  State under this section for any fiscal year that is less than $450,000
  or one-third of one percent of such sums shall be increased to the greater
  of the two amounts;
  `(ii) if such excess is not less than $4,000,000 and is less than $8,000,000,
  the allotment to any State under subparagraph (A) shall be not less than
  $400,000 or one-third of one percent of the sums made available for the
  fiscal year for which the allotment is made, whichever is greater, and
  the allotment of any State under this section for any fiscal year that
  is less than $400,000 or one-third of one percent of such sums shall be
  increased to the greater of the two amounts; and
  `(iii) if such excess is less than $4,000,000, the allotment to any State
  under subparagraph (A) shall approach, as nearly as possible, the greater
  of the two amounts described in clause (ii).
  `(2) CERTAIN TERRITORIES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- For the purposes of this subsection, Guam, American Samoa,
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau shall not be considered to be States.
  `(B) ALLOTMENT- Each jurisdiction described in subparagraph (A) shall be
  allotted not less than one-eighth of one percent of the remainder for the
  fiscal year for which the allotment is made, except that the Republic of
  Palau may receive such allotment under this section only until the Compact
  of Free Association with Palau takes effect.
  `(3) ADJUSTMENT FOR INFLATION- For any fiscal year, beginning in fiscal year
  1994, in which the total amount appropriated to carry out this part exceeds
  the total amount appropriated to carry out this part for the preceding fiscal
  year by a percentage greater than the most recent percentage change in the
  Consumer Price Index For All Urban Consumers published by the Secretary of
  Labor under section 100(c)(1), the Commissioner shall increase the minimum
  allotment under paragraph (1)(C) by such percentage change in the Consumer
  Price Index For All Urban Consumers.
  `(d) REALLOTMENT- Whenever the Commissioner determines that any amount of
  an allotment to a State for any fiscal year will not be expended by such
  State for carrying out the provisions of this part, the Commissioner
  shall make such amount available for carrying out the provisions of
  this part to one or more of the States that the Commissioner determines
  will be able to use additional amounts during such year for carrying out
  such provisions. Any amount made available to a State for any fiscal year
  pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, for the purposes of this section,
  be regarded as an increase in the allotment of the State (as determined
  under the preceding provisions of this section) for such year.
  `(e) TRANSITION RULES-
  `(1) RESERVATION-
  `(A) FISCAL YEAR 1993- For fiscal year 1993, the Commissioner shall first
  reserve from the funds appropriated to carry out this part, not less than
  1.8 percent, and not more than 2 percent, of such funds, whichever is
  greater, for training, technical assistance, and transition assistance,
  to centers for independent living.
  `(B) TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- From the funds reserved under
  subparagraph (A), the Commissioner shall make grants to, and enter into
  contracts and other arrangements with, entities who have experience in
  the operation of centers for independent living, to--
  `(i) provide such training and technical assistance with respect to
  planning, developing, conducting, administering, and evaluating centers
  for independent living; and
  `(ii) provide such transition assistance to assist the centers with
  efforts to achieve compliance with the standards and assurances set forth
  in this part.
  `(C) REVIEW- To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract
  or other arrangement under this paragraph, such an entity shall submit an
  application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner, and containing
  a proposal to provide such training, technical assistance, and transition
  assistance and containing such additional information as the Commissioner
  may require.  The Commissioner shall provide for peer review of such
  proposals by panels that include persons who are not government employees
  and who have experience in the operation of centers for independent living.
  `(D) PROHIBITION ON COMBINED FUNDS- An entity that receives funds under
  this paragraph shall comply with subsection (b)(5) with respect to the funds.
  `(2) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) GRANTS- After the reservation required by paragraph (1) has been
  made, and from the remainder of the funds appropriated for fiscal year
  1993 to carry out this part, the Secretary is authorized to make grants
  to eligible agencies described in subparagraph (B) to operate centers for
  independent living.
  `(B) AGENCIES-
  `(i) FISCAL YEAR 1992 RECIPIENTS- Private nonprofit agencies that received
  funding directly or through subgrants or contracts under part B, as in effect
  on the day before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments
  of 1992, in fiscal year 1992 shall receive assistance under this part for
  fiscal year 1993 if the agencies submit applications that demonstrate to the
  satisfaction of the Commissioner that as of October 1, 1993, such agencies
  will meet the standards described in section 725(b) and that contain the
  assurances described in section 725(c). In determining whether a center
  meets the standards described in section 725(b), the Commissioner will
  look for information that shows how the center will meet each standard. The
  Commissioner shall consider any data on past performance that is provided
  by the agency that shows how the center has been meeting the standards.
  `(ii) OTHER AGENCIES- Private nonprofit agencies that did not receive
  assistance under part B, as in effect on the day before the date of
  enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992, in fiscal year
  1992 may receive assistance under this part for fiscal year 1993 if
  the agencies submit satisfactory applications for fiscal year 1993. In
  determining whether an application is satisfactory, the Secretary shall
  use the criteria for selection of centers specified in section 722(d)(2)(B).
  `(C) PRIORITY- The Secretary may not award funds to a private nonprofit
  agency that did not receive assistance under part B, as in effect on the day
  before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992,
  in fiscal year 1992 until the Secretary has funded all agencies within
  each State that received such funding and have submitted applications
  described in subparagraph (B)(i) for fiscal year 1993.
`SEC. 722. GRANTS TO CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING IN STATES IN WHICH
FEDERAL FUNDING EXCEEDS STATE FUNDING.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Unless the director of a designated State unit awards
  grants under section 723 to eligible agencies in a State for a fiscal year,
  the Commissioner shall award grants under this section to such eligible
  agencies for such fiscal year from the amount of funds allotted to the
  State under subsection (c) or (d) of section 721 for such year.
  `(2) GRANTS- The Commissioner shall award such grants, from the amount of
  funds so allotted, to such eligible agencies for the planning, conduct,
  administration, and evaluation of centers for independent living that
  comply with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725.
  `(b) ELIGIBLE AGENCIES- In any State in which the Commissioner has approved
  the State plan required by section 704, the Commissioner may make a grant
  under this section to any eligible agency that--
  `(1) has the power and authority to carry out the purpose of this part
  and perform the functions set forth in section 725 within a community and
  to receive and administer funds under this part, funds and contributions
  from private or public sources that may be used in support of a center
  for independent living, and funds from other public and private programs;
  `(2) is determined by the Commissioner to be able to plan, conduct,
  administer, and evaluate a center for independent living consistent with
  the standards and assurances set forth in section 725; and
  `(3) submits an application to the Commissioner at such time, in such
  manner, and containing such information as the Commissioner may require.
  `(c) EXISTING ELIGIBLE AGENCIES- In the administration of the provisions
  of this section, the Commissioner shall award grants to any eligible
  agency that is receiving funds under this part on September 30, 1993,
  unless the Commissioner makes a finding that the agency involved fails to
  meet program and fiscal standards and assurances set forth in section 725.
  `(d) NEW CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If there is no center for independent living serving
  a region of the State or a region is underserved, and the increase in
  the allotment of the State is sufficient to support an additional center
  for independent living in the State, the Commissioner may award a grant
  under this section to the most qualified applicant, consistent with the
  provisions in the State plan setting forth the design of the State for
  establishing a statewide network of centers for independent living.
  `(2) SELECTION- In selecting from among applicants for a grant under this
  section for a new center for independent living, the Commissioner--
  `(A) shall consider comments regarding the application, if any, by the
  Statewide Independent Living Council in the State in which the applicant
  is located;
  `(B) shall consider the ability of each such applicant to operate a center
  for independent living based on--
  `(i) evidence of the need for such a center;
  `(ii) any past performance of such applicant in providing services comparable
  to independent living services;
  `(iii) the plan for satisfying or demonstrated success in satisfying the
  standards and the assurances set forth in section 725;
  `(iv) the quality of key personnel and the involvement of individuals with
  severe disabilities;
  `(v) budgets and cost-effectiveness;
  `(vi) an evaluation plan; and
  `(vii) the ability of such applicant to carry out the plans; and
  `(C) shall give priority to applications from applicants proposing to
  serve geographic areas within each State that are currently unserved or
  underserved by independent living programs, consistent with the provisions
  of the State plan submitted under section 704 regarding establishment of
  a statewide network of centers for independent living.
  `(3) CURRENT CENTERS- Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), a center for
  independent living that receives assistance under part B (or part A as
  in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation
  Act Amendments of 1992) for a fiscal year for the general operation of
  the center shall be eligible for a grant for the subsequent fiscal year
  under this subsection.
  `(e) ORDER OF PRIORITIES- The Commissioner shall be guided by the following
  order of priorities in allocating funds among centers for independent
  living within a State, to the extent funds are available:
  `(1) The Commissioner shall support existing centers for independent living,
  as described in subsection (c), that comply with the standards and assurances
  set forth in section 725, at the level of funding for the previous year.
  `(2) The Commissioner shall provide for a cost-of-living increase for such
  existing centers for independent living.
  `(3) The Commissioner shall fund new centers for independent living, as
  described in subsection (d), that comply with the standards and assurances
  set forth in section 725.
  `(f) REVIEW-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner shall periodically review each center
  receiving funds under this section to determine whether such center is in
  compliance with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725. If
  the Commissioner determines that any center receiving funds under this
  section is not in compliance with the standards and assurances set forth
  in section 725, the Commissioner shall immediately notify such center that
  it is out of compliance.
  `(2) ENFORCEMENT- The Commissioner shall terminate all funds under this
  section to such center 90 days after the date of such notification unless
  the center submits a plan to achieve compliance within 90 days of such
  notification and such plan is approved by the Commissioner.
`SEC. 723. GRANTS TO CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING IN STATES IN WHICH STATE
FUNDING EQUALS OR EXCEEDS FEDERAL FUNDING.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-
  `(A) INITIAL YEAR-
  `(i) DETERMINATION- Beginning on October 1, 1993, the director of a
  designated State unit, as provided in paragraph (2), or the Commissioner,
  as provided in paragraph (3), shall award grants under this section for
  an initial fiscal year if the Commissioner determines that the amount of
  State funds that were earmarked by a State for a preceding fiscal year to
  support the general operation of centers for independent living meeting the
  requirements of this part equaled or exceeded the amount of funds allotted
  to the State under subsection (c) or (d) of section 721 for such year.
  `(ii) GRANTS- The director or the Commissioner, as appropriate,  shall
  award such grants, from the amount of funds so allotted for the initial
  fiscal year, to eligible agencies in the State for the planning, conduct,
  administration, and evaluation of centers for independent living that
  comply with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725.
  `(iii) REGULATION- The Commissioner shall by regulation specify the
  preceding fiscal year with respect to which the Commissioner will make
  the determinations described in clause (i) and subparagraph (B).
  `(B) SUBSEQUENT YEARS- For each year subsequent to the initial fiscal
  year described in subparagraph (A), the director of the designated State
  unit shall continue to have the authority to award such grants under this
  section if the Commissioner determines that the State continues to earmark
  the amount of State funds described in subparagraph (A)(i). If the State
  does not continue to earmark such an amount for a fiscal year, the State
  shall be ineligible to make grants under this section after a final year
  following such fiscal year, as defined in accordance with regulations
  established by the Commissioner, and for each subsequent fiscal year.
  `(2) GRANTS BY DESIGNATED STATE UNITS- In order for the designated State
  unit to be eligible to award the grants described in paragraph (1) and
  carry out this section for a fiscal year with respect to a State, the
  designated State agency shall submit an application to the Commissioner at
  such time, and in such manner as the Commissioner may require, including
  information about the amount of State funds described in paragraph (1)
  for the preceding fiscal year. If the Commissioner makes a determination
  described in subparagraph (A)(i) or (B), as appropriate, of paragraph (1),
  the Commissioner shall approve the application and designate the director
  of the designated State unit to award the grant and carry out this section.
  `(3) GRANTS BY COMMISSIONER- If the designated State agency of a State
  described in paragraph (1) does not submit and obtain approval of an
  application under paragraph (2), the Commissioner shall award the grant
  described in paragraph (1) to the State in accordance with section 722.
  `(b) ELIGIBLE AGENCIES- In any State in which the Commissioner has approved
  the State plan required by section 704, the director of the designated
  State unit may award a grant under this section to any eligible agency that--
  `(1) has the power and authority to carry out the purpose of this part
  and perform the functions set forth in section 725 within a community and
  to receive and administer funds under this part, funds and contributions
  from private or public sources that may be used in support of a center
  for independent living, and funds from other public and private programs;
  `(2) is determined by the director to be able to plan, conduct, administer,
  and evaluate a center for independent living, consistent with the standards
  and assurances set forth in section 725; and
  `(3) submits an application to the director at such time, in such manner,
  and containing such information as the head of the designated State unit
  may require.
  `(c) EXISTING ELIGIBLE AGENCIES- In the administration of the provisions
  of this section, the director of the designated State unit shall award
  grants under this section to any eligible agency that is receiving funds
  under this part on September 30, 1993, unless the director makes a finding
  that the agency involved fails to comply with the standards and assurances
  set forth in section 725.
  `(d) NEW CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If there is no center for independent living serving
  a region of the State or the region is unserved or underserved, and
  the increase in the allotment of the State is sufficient to support an
  additional center for independent living in the State, the director of
  the designated State unit may award a grant under this section from among
  eligible agencies, consistent with the provisions of the State plan under
  section 704 setting forth the design of the State for establishing a
  statewide network of centers for independent living.
  `(2) SELECTION- In selecting from among eligible agencies in awarding a
  grant under this part for a new center for independent living--
  `(A) the director of the designated State unit and the chairperson of, or
  other individual designated by, the Statewide Independent Living Council
  acting on behalf of and at the direction of the Council, shall jointly
  appoint a peer review committee that shall rank applications in accordance
  with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725 and criteria
  jointly established by such director and such chairperson or individual;
  `(B) the peer review committee shall consider the ability of each such
  applicant to operate a center for independent living, and shall recommend
  an applicant to receive a grant under this section, based on--
  `(i) evidence of the need for a center for independent living, consistent
  with the State plan;
  `(ii) any past performance of such applicant in providing services comparable
  to independent living services;
  `(iii) the plan for complying with, or demonstrated success in complying
  with, the standards and the assurances set forth in section 725;
  `(iv) the quality of key personnel of the applicant and the involvement
  of individuals with severe disabilities by the applicant;
  `(v) the budgets and cost-effectiveness of the applicant;
  `(vi) the evaluation plan of the applicant; and
  `(vii) the ability of such applicant to carry out the plans; and
  `(C) the director of the designated State unit shall award the grant on the
  basis of the recommendations of the peer review committee if the actions
  of the committee are consistent with Federal and State law.
  `(3) CURRENT CENTERS- Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2), a center for
  independent living that receives assistance under part B (or part A as
  in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Rehabilitation
  Act Amendments of 1992) for a fiscal year for the general operation of
  the center shall be eligible for a grant for the subsequent fiscal year
  under this subsection.
  `(e) ORDER OF PRIORITIES- Unless the director of the designated State
  unit and the chairperson of the Council or other individual designated
  by the Council acting on behalf of and at the direction of the Council
  jointly agree on another order of priority, the director shall be guided
  by the following order of priorities in allocating funds among centers
  for independent living within a State, to the extent funds are available:
  `(1) The director of the designated State unit shall support existing
  centers for independent living, as described in subsection (c), that comply
  with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725, at the level
  of funding for the previous year.
  `(2) The director of the designated State unit shall provide for a
  cost-of-living increase for such existing centers for independent living.
  `(3) The director of the designated State unit shall fund new centers for
  independent living, as described in subsection (d), that comply with the
  standards and assurances set forth in section 725.
  `(f) REVIEW-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The director of the designated State unit shall periodically
  review each center receiving funds under this section to determine whether
  such center is in compliance with the standards and assurances set forth
  in section 725. If the director of the designated State unit determines
  that any center receiving funds under this section is not in compliance
  with the standards and assurances set forth in section 725, the director
  of the designated State unit shall immediately notify such center that it
  is out of compliance.
  `(2) ENFORCEMENT- The director of the designated State unit shall terminate
  all funds under this section to such center 90 days after--
  `(A) the date of such notification; or
  `(B) in the case of a center that requests an appeal under subsection (h),
  the date of any final decision under subsection (h),
unless the center submits a plan to achieve compliance within 90 days and
such plan is approved by the director, or if appealed, by the Commissioner.
  `(g) ON-SITE COMPLIANCE REVIEW- The director of the designated State
  unit shall conduct on-site compliance review of centers for independent
  living. Each team that conducts on-site compliance review of centers for
  independent living shall include at least one person who is not an employee
  of the designated State agency, who has experience in the operation of
  centers for independent living, and who is jointly selected by the director
  of the designated State unit and the chairperson of or other individual
  designated by the Council acting on behalf of and at the direction of the
  Council. A copy of this review shall be provided to the Commissioner.
  `(h) ADVERSE ACTIONS- If the director of the designated State unit proposes
  to take a significant adverse action against a center for independent
  living, the center may seek mediation and conciliation to be provided by an
  individual or individuals who are free of conflicts of interest identified
  by the chairperson of or other individual designated by the Council. If the
  issue is not resolved through the mediation and conciliation, the center may
  appeal the proposed adverse action to the Commissioner for a final decision.
`SEC. 724. CENTERS OPERATED BY STATE AGENCIES.
  `(a) FISCAL YEAR 1993-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding section 702(1), if--
  `(A) no nonprofit private agency--
  `(i) submits an acceptable application to operate a center for independent
  living for fiscal year 1993 before a date specified by the Commissioner; and
  `(ii) obtains approval of the application under section 722 or 723; and
  `(B) a State directly operated such a center in fiscal year 1992 with
  funds provided under part B, as in effect on the day before the date of
  enactment of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992,
the State may apply to the Commissioner for assistance under section 721(e)(2)
for the conduct, administration, and evaluation of such a center.
  `(2) COMPLIANCE- A State that receives assistance with respect to a center
  in accordance with paragraph (1) shall ensure that the center shall comply
  with all of the requirements of this part, other than the requirement that
  the center be a private nonprofit agency.
  `(b) FISCAL YEAR 1994 AND SUCCEEDING FISCAL YEARS- A State that receives
  assistance for fiscal year 1993 with respect to a center in accordance
  with subsection (a) may continue to receive assistance under this part
  for fiscal year 1994 or a succeeding fiscal year if, for such fiscal year--
  `(1) no nonprofit private agency--
  `(A) submits an acceptable application to operate a center for independent
  living for fiscal year 1993 before a date specified by the Commissioner; and
  `(B) obtains approval of the application under section 722 or 723; or
  `(2) after funding all applications so submitted and approved, the
  Commissioner determines that funds remain available to provide such
  assistance.
`SEC. 725. STANDARDS AND ASSURANCES FOR CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each center for independent living that receives assistance
  under this part shall comply with the standards set out in subsection
  (b) and provide and comply with the assurances set out in subsection (c)
  in order to ensure that all programs and activities under this part are
  planned, conducted, administered, and evaluated in a manner consistent
  with the purposes of this chapter and the objective of providing assistance
  effectively and efficiently.
  `(b) STANDARDS-
  `(1) PHILOSOPHY- The center shall promote and practice the independent
  living philosophy of--
  `(A) consumer control of the center regarding decisionmaking, service
  delivery, management, and establishment of the policy and direction of
  the center;
  `(B) self-help and self-advocacy;
  `(C) development of peer relationships and peer role models; and
  `(D) equal access of individuals with severe disabilities to society and
  to all services, programs, activities, resources, and facilities, whether
  public or private and regardless of the funding source.
  `(2) PROVISION OF SERVICES- The center shall provide services to individuals
  with a range of severe disabilities. The center shall provide services on a
  cross-disability basis (for individuals with all different types of severe
  disabilities, including individuals with disabilities who are members
  of populations that are unserved or underserved by programs under this
  Act). Eligibility for services at any center for independent living shall
  not be based on the presence of any one or more specific severe disabilities.
  `(3) INDEPENDENT LIVING GOALS- The center shall facilitate the development
  and achievement of independent living goals selected by individuals with
  severe disabilities who seek such assistance by the center.
  `(4) COMMUNITY OPTIONS- The center shall work to increase the availability
  and improve the quality of community options for independent living in
  order to facilitate the development and achievement of independent living
  goals by individuals with severe disabilities.
  `(5) INDEPENDENT LIVING CORE SERVICES- The center shall provide independent
  living core services and, as appropriate, a combination of any other
  independent living services specified in section 7(30)(B).
  `(6) ACTIVITIES TO INCREASE COMMUNITY CAPACITY- The center shall conduct
  activities to increase the capacity of communities within the service area
  of the center to meet the needs of individuals with severe disabilities.
  `(7) RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES- The center shall conduct resource
  development activities to obtain funding from sources other than this
  chapter.
  `(c) ASSURANCES- The eligible agency shall provide at such time and in
  such manner as the Commissioner may require, such satisfactory assurances
  as the Commissioner may require, including satisfactory assurances that--
  `(1) the applicant is an eligible agency;
  `(2) the center will be designed and operated within local communities
  by individuals with disabilities, including an assurance that the center
  will have a Board that is the principal governing body of the center and a
  majority of which shall be composed of individuals with severe disabilities;
  `(3) the applicant will comply with the standards set forth in subsection
  (b);
  `(4) the applicant will establish clear priorities through annual and
  3-year program and financial planning objectives for the center, including
  overall goals or a mission for the center, a work plan for achieving the
  goals or mission, specific objectives, service priorities, and types of
  services to be provided, and a description that shall demonstrate how the
  proposed activities of the applicant are consistent with the most recent
  3-year State plan under section 704;
  `(5) the applicant will use sound organizational and personnel assignment
  practices, including taking affirmative action to employ and advance in
  employment qualified individuals with severe disabilities on the same terms
  and conditions required with respect to the employment of individuals with
  disabilities under section 503;
  `(6) the applicant will ensure that the majority of the staff, and
  individuals in decisionmaking positions, of the applicant are individuals
  with disabilities;
  `(7) the applicant will practice sound fiscal management, including making
  arrangements for an annual independent fiscal audit;
  `(8) the applicant will conduct annual self-evaluations, prepare an annual
  report, and maintain records adequate to measure performance with respect
  to the standards, containing information regarding, at a minimum--
  `(A) the extent to which the center is in compliance with the standards;
  `(B) the number and types of individuals with severe disabilities receiving
  services through the center;
  `(C) the types of services provided through the center and the number of
  individuals with severe disabilities receiving each type of service;
  `(D) the sources and amounts of funding for the operation of the center;
  `(E) the number of individuals with severe disabilities who are employed
  by, and the number who are in management and decisionmaking positions in,
  the center; and
  `(F) a comparison, when appropriate, of the activities of the center in
  prior years with the activities of the center in the most recent year;
  `(9) individuals with severe disabilities who are seeking or receiving
  services at the center will be notified by the center of the existence of,
  the availability of, and how to contact, the client assistance program;
  `(10) aggressive outreach regarding services provided through the center
  will be conducted in an effort to reach populations of individuals with
  severe disabilities that are unserved or underserved by programs under
  this title, especially minority groups and urban and rural populations;
  `(11) staff at centers for independent living will receive training on
  how to serve such unserved and underserved populations, including minority
  groups and urban and rural populations;
  `(12) the center will submit to the Statewide Independent Living Council
  a copy of its approved grant application and the annual report required
  under paragraph (8);
  `(13) the center will prepare and submit a report to the designated
  State unit or the Commissioner, as the case may be, at the end of each
  fiscal year that contains the information described in paragraph (8) and
  information regarding the extent to which the center is in compliance with
  the standards set forth in subsection (b); and
  `(14) an independent living plan described in section 704(e) will be
  developed unless the individual who would receive services under the plan
  signs a waiver stating that such a plan is unnecessary.
`SEC. 726. DEFINITIONS.
  `As used in this part, the term `eligible agency' means a
  consumer-controlled, community-based, cross-disability, nonresi- dential
  private nonprofit agency.
`SEC. 727. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996,
  and 1997.'.
SEC. 702. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), this title
  and the amendments made by this title shall take effect on the date of
  enactment of this Act.
  (b) CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING- The provisions of part C of chapter 1
  of title VII of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (as added by section 701 of
  this Act), shall not apply with respect to fiscal year 1992 for programs
  receiving assistance under part B of such chapter, as in effect on the
  day before the date of enactment of this Act. The provisions of such part
  B shall continue to apply for such programs with respect to fiscal year 1992.
  (c) STATE PLAN- The Secretary of Education shall implement the provisions
  of section 704 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (as amended by section
  701 of this Act), as soon as is practicable after the date of enactment
  of this Act, consistent with the effective and efficient administration
  of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.), but not later
  than October 1, 1993.
SEC. 703. INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND.
  (a) SERVICES- Title VII (29 U.S.C. 796 et seq.) is amended by adding at
  the end the following:
`CHAPTER 2--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE BLIND
`SEC. 751. DEFINITION.
  `For purposes of this chapter, the term `older individual who is blind'
  means an individual age 55 or older whose severe visual impairment makes
  competitive employment extremely difficult to attain but for whom independent
  living goals are feasible.
`SEC. 752. PROGRAM OF GRANTS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) AUTHORITY FOR GRANTS- Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the
  Commissioner may make grants to States for the purpose of providing the
  services described in subsection (d) to older individuals who are blind.
  `(2) DESIGNATED STATE UNIT- The Commissioner may not make a grant under
  subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that the grant will be
  administered solely by the agency described in section 101(a)(1)(A)(i).
  `(b) CONTINGENT COMPETITIVE GRANTS- Beginning with fiscal year 1994,
  in the case of any fiscal year for which the amount appropriated under
  section 753 is less than $13,000,000, grants under subsection (a) shall
  be discretionary grants made on a competitive basis to States.
  `(c) CONTINGENT FORMULA GRANTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of any fiscal year for which the amount
  appropriated under section 753 is equal to or greater than $13,000,000,
  grants under subsection (a) shall be made only to States and shall be made
  only from allotments under paragraph (2).
  `(2) ALLOTMENTS- For grants under subsection (a) for a fiscal year described
  in paragraph (1), the Commissioner shall make an allotment to each State
  in an amount determined in accordance with subsection (j), and shall make
  a grant to the State of the allotment made for the State if the State
  submits to the Commissioner an application in accordance with subsection (i).
  `(d) SERVICES GENERALLY- The Commissioner may not make a grant under
  subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that the grant will be
  expended only for purposes of--
  `(1) providing independent living services to older individuals who
  are blind;
  `(2) conducting activities that will improve or expand services for such
  individuals; and
  `(3) conducting activities to help improve public understanding of the
  problems of such individuals.
  `(e) INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES- Independent living services for purposes
  of subsection (d)(1) include--
  `(1) services to help correct blindness, such as--
  `(A) outreach services;
  `(B) visual screening;
  `(C) surgical or therapeutic treatment to prevent, correct, or modify
  disabling eye conditions; and
  `(D) hospitalization related to such services;
  `(2) the provision of eyeglasses and other visual aids;
  `(3) the provision of services and equipment to assist an older individual
  who is blind to become more mobile and more self-sufficient;
  `(4) mobility training, Braille instruction, and other services and
  equipment to help an older individual who is blind adjust to blindness;
  `(5) guide services, reader services, and transportation;
  `(6) any other appropriate service designed to assist an older individual
  who is blind in coping with daily living activities, including supportive
  services and rehabilitation teaching services;
  `(7) independent living skills training, information and referral services,
  peer counseling, and individual advocacy training; and
  `(8) other independent living services, as defined in section 7(30).
  `(f) MATCHING FUNDS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner may not make a grant under subsection
  (a) unless the State involved agrees, with respect to the costs of the
  program to be carried out by the State pursuant to such subsection, to make
  available (directly or through donations from public or private entities)
  non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is not less
  than $1 for each $9 of Federal funds provided in the grant.
  `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED- Non-Federal contributions
  required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated,
  including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal
  Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent
  by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount
  of such non-Federal contributions.
  `(g) CERTAIN EXPENDITURES OF GRANTS- A State may expend a grant under
  subsection (a) to carry out the purposes specified in subsection (d)
  through grants to public and nonprofit private agencies or organizations.
  `(h) REQUIREMENT REGARDING STATE PLAN- The Commissioner may not make
  a grant under subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that, in
  carrying out subsection (d)(1), the State will seek to incorporate into
  the State plan under section 704 any new methods and approaches relating
  to independent living services for older individuals who are blind.
  `(i) APPLICATION FOR GRANT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Commissioner may not make a grant under subsection (a)
  unless an application for the grant is submitted to the Commissioner and
  the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such
  agreements, assurances, and information as the Commissioner determines to
  be necessary to carry out this section (including agreements, assurances,
  and information with respect to any grants under subsection (j)(4)).
  `(2) CONTENTS- An application for a grant under this section shall contain--
  `(A) an assurance that the designated State unit described in subsection
  (a)(2) will prepare and submit to the Commissioner a report, at the end of
  each fiscal year, with respect to each project or program the designated
  State unit operates or administers under this section, whether directly
  or through a grant or contract, which report shall contain, at a minimum,
  information on--
  `(i) the number and types of older individuals who are blind and are
  receiving services;
  `(ii) the types of services provided and the number of older individuals
  who are blind and are receiving each type of service;
  `(iii) the sources and amounts of funding for the operation of each project
  or program;
  `(iv) the amounts and percentages of resources committed to each type of
  service provided;
  `(v) data on actions taken to employ, and advance in employment, qualified
  individuals with severe disabilities, including older individuals who are
  blind; and
  `(vi) a comparison, if appropriate, of prior year activities with the
  activities of the most recent year;
  `(B) an assurance that the designated State unit will--
  `(i) provide services that contribute to the maintenance of, or the
  increased independence of, older individuals who are blind; and
  `(ii) engage in--
  `(I) capacity-building activities, including collaboration with other
  agencies and organizations;
  `(II) activities to promote community awareness, involvement, and
  assistance; and
  `(III) outreach efforts; and
  `(C) an assurance that the application is consistent with the State plan
  for providing independent living services required by section 704.
  `(j) AMOUNT OF FORMULA GRANT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to the availability of appropriations, the amount
  of an allotment under subsection (a) for a State for a fiscal year shall
  be the greater of--
  `(A) the amount determined under paragraph (2); and
  `(B) the amount determined under paragraph (3).
  `(2) MINIMUM ALLOTMENT-
  `(A) STATES- In the case of the several States, the District of Columbia,
  and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the amount referred to in subparagraph
  (A) of paragraph (1) for a fiscal year is the greater of--
  `(i) $225,000; and
  `(ii) an amount equal to one-third of one percent of the amount appropriated
  under section 753 for the fiscal year and available for allotments under
  subsection (a).
  `(B) CERTAIN TERRITORIES- In the case of Guam, American Samoa, the United
  States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
  and the Republic of Palau, the amount referred to in subparagraph (A) of
  paragraph (1) for a fiscal year is $40,000, except that the Republic of
  Palau may receive such allotment under this section only until the Compact
  of Free Association with Palau takes effect.
  `(3) FORMULA- The amount referred to in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1)
  for a State for a fiscal year is the product of--
  `(A) the amount appropriated under section 753 and available for allotments
  under subsection (a); and
  `(B) a percentage equal to the quotient of--
  `(i) an amount equal to the number of individuals residing in the State
  who are not less than 55 years of age; divided by
  `(ii) an amount equal to the number of individuals residing in the United
  States who are not less than 55 years of age.
  `(4) DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN AMOUNTS-
  `(A) GRANTS- From the amounts specified in subparagraph (B), the Commissioner
  may make grants to States whose population of older individuals who are blind
  has a substantial need for the services specified in subsection (d) relative
  to the populations in other States of older individuals who are blind.
  `(B) AMOUNTS- The amounts referred to in subparagraph (A) are any amounts
  that are not paid to States under subsection (a) as a result of--
  `(i) the failure of any State to submit an application under subsection (i);
  `(ii) the failure of any State to prepare within a reasonable period of
  time such application in compliance with such subsection; or
  `(iii) any State informing the Commissioner that the State does not intend to
  expend the full amount of the allotment made for the State under subsection
  (a).
  `(C) CONDITIONS- The Commissioner may not make a grant under subparagraph
  (A) unless the State involved agrees that the grant is subject to the same
  conditions as grants made under subsection (a).
`SEC. 753. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this chapter such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is amended
  by striking the items relating to title VII and inserting the following:
`TITLE VII--INDEPENDENT LIVING SERVICES AND CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING
`Chapter 1--Individuals With Severe Disabilities
`Part A--General Provisions
`Sec. 701. Purpose.
`Sec. 702. Definitions.
`Sec. 703. Eligibility for receipt of services.
`Sec. 704. State plan.
`Sec. 705. Statewide Independent Living Council.
`Sec. 706. Responsibilities of the Commissioner.
`Part B--Independent Living Services
`Sec. 711. Allotments.
`Sec. 712. Payments to States from allotments.
`Sec. 713. Authorized uses of funds.
`Sec. 714. Authorization of appropriations.
`Part C--Centers for Independent Living
`Sec. 721. Program authorization.
`Sec. 722. Grants to centers for independent living in States in which
Federal funding exceeds State funding.
`Sec. 723. Grants to centers for independent living in States in which State
funding equals or exceeds Federal funding.
`Sec. 724. Centers operated by State agencies.
`Sec. 725. Standards and assurances for centers for independent living.
`Sec. 726. Definitions.
`Sec. 727. Authorization of appropriations.
`Chapter 2--Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who Are Blind
`Sec. 751. Definition.
`Sec. 752. Program of grants.
`Sec. 753. Authorization of appropriations.'.
TITLE VIII--SPECIAL DEMONSTRATIONS AND TRAINING PROJECTS
SEC. 801. SPECIAL DEMONSTRATIONS AND TRAINING PROJECTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) is amended by adding at
  the end the following title:
`TITLE VIII--SPECIAL DEMONSTRATIONS AND TRAINING PROJECTS
`SEC. 801. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `(a) DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS- There are authorized to be appropriated to
  carry out section 802, such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
  years 1993 through 1997.
  `(b) TRAINING INITIATIVES- There are authorized to be appropriated to
  carry out section 803, such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
  years 1993 through 1997.
`SEC. 802. DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES.
  `(a) TRANSPORTATION SERVICES GRANTS-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner shall make grants to States and to public
  or nonprofit agencies and organizations for the purpose of providing
  transportation services to individuals with disabilities who--
  `(A)(i) are employed or seeking employment; or
  `(ii) are receiving vocational rehabilitation services from public or
  private organizations; and
  `(B) reside in geographic areas in which fixed route public transportation
  or comparable paratransit service is not available.
  `(2) USE OF GRANT- The Commissioner may make a grant under this subsection
  only if the applicant involved agrees that transportation services under
  this subsection will be provided on a regular and continuing basis between--
  `(A) the home of the individual; and
  `(B) the place of employment of the individual, the place where the
  individual is seeking employment, or the place where the individual is
  receiving vocational rehabilitation services.
  `(3) CHARGES- The Commissioner may make a grant under paragraph (1) only
  if the applicant involved agrees that, in providing transportation services
  under this subsection--
  `(A) a charge for the transportation will be imposed on each employed
  eligible individual who uses the transportation; and
  `(B) the amount of the charge for an instance of use of the transportation
  for the distance involved will be in a fair and reasonable amount that is
  consistent with fees for comparable services in comparable geographic areas.
  `(4) REPORT- The Commissioner may make a grant under this subsection only
  if the applicant involved agrees to prepare and submit to the Commissioner,
  not later than December 31 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year
  for which the grant is made, a report containing--
  `(A) a description of the goals of the program carried out with the grant;
  `(B) a description of the activities and services provided under the program;
  `(C) a description of the number of eligible individuals served under
  the program;
  `(D) a description of methods used to ensure that the program serves the
  eligible individuals most in need of the transportation services provided
  under the program; and
  `(E) such additional information as the Commissioner may require.
  `(5) CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this subsection may be construed as limiting
  the rights or responsibilities of any individual under any other provision
  of this Act, under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or under
  any other provision of law.
  `(b) PROJECTS TO ACHIEVE HIGH QUALITY PLACEMENTS-
  `(1) SPECIAL PROJECTS AND DEMONSTRATIONS- The Commissioner shall make grants
  to public or nonprofit community rehabilitation programs, designated State
  units, and other public or nonprofit agencies and organizations to pay
  for the cost of developing special projects and demonstrations related
  to vocational rehabilitation outcomes. Such projects and demonstrations
  may include activities providing alternatives to case closure practice
  and identifying and implementing appropriate incentives to vocational
  rehabilitation counselors to achieve high quality placements for individuals
  with the most severe disabilities.
  `(2) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- Each recipient of such a grant shall--
  `(A) identify, develop, and test exemplary models that can be replicated; and
  `(B) identify innovative methods, such as weighted case closures, to
  evaluate the performance of vocational rehabilitation counselors that in
  no way impede the accomplishment of the purposes and policy of serving,
  among others, those individuals with the most severe disabilities.
  `(c) EARLY INTERVENTION DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner shall make grants to public or nonprofit
  agencies and organizations to carry out demonstration programs designed
  to demonstrate the utility of early intervention in furnishing vocational
  evaluation, training, and counseling services to working adults recently
  determined to have chronic and progressive diseases that may be severely
  disabling, such as multiple sclerosis.
  `(2) GRANT ACTIVITIES- In carrying out a demonstration program under
  paragraph (1), an eligible entity shall conduct a program intended to
  demonstrate the effectiveness of such early intervention in improving
  the job retention of the working adults or in facilitating the entry
  of the working adults to new careers and employment. The demonstration
  program shall test a number of alternative service systems, including
  an employer assistance program, a system involving early intervention by
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies, and a private nonprofit agency
  joint venture with an employer or State vocational rehabilitation agency.
  `(d) TRANSITION DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner may make grants to public or nonprofit agencies
  and organizations to pay part or all of the costs of special projects and
  demonstration projects to support models for providing community-based,
  coordinated services to facilitate the transition of individuals with
  disabilities from rehabilitation hospital or nursing home programs or
  comparable programs, to programs providing independent living services in
  the community, including services such as personal assistance services,
  health maintenance services, counseling, and social and vocational services.
  `(2) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection,
  an agency or organization shall submit an application to the Commissioner
  at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the
  Commissioner may require.
  `(3) EVALUATION- An agency or organization that receives a grant under
  this subsection shall evaluate the effectiveness of such models and prepare
  and submit to the Commissioner a report containing the evaluation.
  `(e) BARRIERS TO SUCCESSFUL REHABILITATION OUTCOMES FOR MINORITIES-
  The Commissioner may award grants to public or nonprofit agencies and
  organizations--
  `(1) to conduct a study to examine the factors that have created barriers
  to successful rehabilitation outcomes for individuals with disabilities
  from minority backgrounds, and develop and evaluate policy, research,
  and training strategies for overcoming the barriers;
  `(2) to conduct a study to examine the factors that have created significant
  underrepresentation of individuals from minority backgrounds in the
  rehabilitation professions, including such underrepresentation among
  researchers, and develop and evaluate policy, research, and training
  strategies for overcoming the underrepresentation; and
  `(3) to conduct a study to examine the factors that have created barriers
  to successful rehabilitation outcomes for individuals with neurological
  or other related disorders, and examine how the hidden or episodic nature
  of the disability affects eligibility and the provision of services.
  `(f) STUDIES, SPECIAL PROJECTS, AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS TO STUDY
  MANAGEMENT AND SERVICE DELIVERY-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner may make grants to public or nonprofit agencies
  and organizations to pay part or all of the costs of conducting studies,
  special projects, or demonstration projects relating to the management
  and service delivery systems of the vocational rehabilitation programs
  authorized under this Act.
  `(2) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant under this subsection,
  an agency or organization shall submit an application to the Commissioner
  at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the
  Commissioner may require.
  `(g) DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS TO INCREASE CLIENT CHOICE-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner may make grants to States and public or
  nonprofit agencies and organizations to pay all or part of the costs of
  projects to demonstrate ways to increase client choice in the rehabilitation
  process, including the selection of providers of vocational rehabilitation
  services.
  `(2) USE OF FUNDS- An entity that receives a grant under this subsection
  shall use the grant only--
  `(A) for activities that are directly related to planning, operating,
  and evaluating the demonstration projects; and
  `(B) to supplement, and not supplant, funds made available from Federal
  and non-Federal sources for such projects.
  `(3) APPLICATION- Any eligible entity that desires to receive a grant under
  this subsection shall submit an application at such time, in such manner,
  and containing such information and assurances as the Commissioner may
  require, including--
  `(A) a description of--
  `(i) how the applicant intends to promote increased client choice in the
  rehabilitation process, including a description, if appropriate, of how
  an applicant will determine the cost of any service or product offered to
  an eligible client;
  `(ii) how the applicant intends to ensure that any vocational rehabilitation
  service or related service is provided by a qualified provider who is
  accredited or meets such other quality assurance and cost-control criteria
  as the State may establish; and
  `(iii) the outreach activities to be conducted by the applicant to obtain
  eligible clients; and
  `(B) assurances that a written plan will be established with the full
  participation of the client, which plan shall, at a minimum, include--
  `(i) a statement of the vocational rehabilitation goals to be achieved;
  `(ii) a statement of the specific vocational rehabilitation services to
  be provided, the projected dates for their initiation, and the anticipated
  duration of each such service; and
  `(iii) objective criteria, an evaluation procedure, and a schedule, for
  determining whether such goals are being achieved.
  `(4) AWARD OF GRANTS- In selecting entities to receive grants under paragraph
  (1), the Commissioner shall take into consideration the--
  `(A) diversity of strategies used to increase client choice, including
  selection among qualified service providers;
  `(B) geographic distribution of projects; and
  `(C) diversity of clients to be served.
  `(5) RECORDS- Entities that receive grants under paragraph (1) shall
  maintain such records as the Commissioner may require and comply with any
  request from the Commissioner for such records.
  `(6) DIRECT SERVICES- At least 80 percent of the funds awarded for any
  project under this subsection shall be used for direct services, as
  specifically chosen by eligible clients.
  `(7) EVALUATION- The Commissioner shall conduct an evaluation of the
  demonstration projects with respect to the services provided, clients
  served, client outcomes obtained, implementation issues addressed, the
  cost effectiveness of the project, and the effects of increased choice on
  clients and service providers. The Commissioner may reserve funds for the
  evaluation for a fiscal year from the amounts appropriated to carry out
  projects under this subsection for the fiscal year.
  `(8) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this subsection:
  `(A) DIRECT SERVICES- The term `direct services' means vocational
  rehabilitation services, as described in section 103(a).
  `(B) ELIGIBLE CLIENT- The term `eligible client' means an individual with
  a disability, as defined in section 7(8)(A), who is not currently receiving
  services under an individualized written rehabilitation program established
  through a designated State unit.
  `(h) NATIONAL COMMISSION ON REHABILITATION SERVICES-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to the availability of appropriations, there
  is hereby established a National Commission on Rehabilitation Services
  (referred to in this section as the `National Commission') for the purpose
  of studying the nature, quality, and adequacy of vocational rehabilitation,
  independent living, supported employment, research, training, and other
  programs authorized under this Act, and submitting to the President and
  to Congress recommendations that will further the successful employment
  outcomes, independence, and integration of individuals with disabilities
  into the workplace and community.
  `(B) COMPOSITION-
  `(i) QUALIFICATIONS- The National Commission shall consist of 15 members
  who are recognized by knowledge, experience, and education as experts in
  the field of rehabilitation. At least a majority of the members of the
  National Commission shall be individuals with disabilities representing
  a cross-section of individuals with different types of disabilities.
  `(ii) APPOINTMENT- Members of the National Commission shall be appointed
  as follows:
  `(I) PRESIDENTIAL APPOINTEES- Five members shall be appointed by the
  President, or, if the President delegates the authority to make the
  appointment, by the Secretary of Education.
  `(II) SENATE APPOINTEES- Five members shall be appointed by the president
  pro tempore of the Senate, with the advice and approval of the Majority
  Leader and Minority Leader of the Senate.
  `(III) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES APPOINT- EES- Five members shall be appointed
  by the Speaker of the House of Representatives with the advice and approval
  of the Majority Leader and Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
  `(C) TERM- Members shall be appointed for the life of the National
  Commission.
  `(D) VACANCIES- Any vacancy in the National Commission shall not affect its
  powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
  `(E) CHAIRPERSON- The National Commission shall select a Chairperson from
  among its members.
  `(F) MEETINGS- The National Commission shall meet at the call of the
  Chairperson, but not less often than four times each year.
  `(G) QUORUM- Ten members of the National Commission shall constitute
  a quorum.
  `(H) COMMITTEES- The Chairperson, upon approval by the National Commission,
  may establish such committees as the Chairperson determines to be necessary
  to fulfill the duties of the National Commission.
  `(2) DUTIES-
  `(A) STUDIES AND ANALYSES- The National Commission shall conduct studies
  and analyses with respect to--
  `(i) the effectiveness of vocational rehabilitation and independent
  living services in enhancing the employment outcomes of individuals with
  disabilities;
  `(ii) the adequacy of research and training activities in fostering
  innovative approaches that further the employment of individuals with
  disabilities;
  `(iii) the capacity of supported employment and independent living services
  in promoting the integration of individuals with disabilities into the
  workplace and community;
  `(iv) methods for enhancing access to services authorized under this
  Act by minorities who are individuals with disabilities and individuals
  with disabilities who are members of populations that have traditionally
  been unserved or underserved by programs under this Act that provide such
  vocational rehabilitation services and independent living services;
  `(v) means for enhancing interagency coordination among Federal and State
  agencies to promote the maximization of employment-related programs,
  services, and benefits on behalf of individuals with disabilities; and
  `(vi) such other issues as the National Commission may identify as relevant
  to promoting the employment, independence, and integration of individuals
  with disabilities.
  `(B) POLICY ANALYSES- The National Commission shall conduct policy
  analyses to--
  `(i) develop options for improving fiscal equity in the allotment of grants
  under section 110;
  `(ii) provide guidance on implementing the order of selection described
  in section 101(a)(5)(A); and
  `(iii) address the shortage of rehabilitation professionals.
  `(C) REPORTS-
  `(i) INTERIM REPORT- Not later than January 30, 1995, the National Commission
  shall prepare and issue a comprehensive interim report to the President,
  the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives,
  and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, containing
  the results of the studies and analyses described in subparagraphs (A)
  and (B) and specific recommendations for amendments to this Act needed
  to promote the provision of comprehensive vocational rehabilitation and
  independent living services on behalf of individuals with disabilities.
  `(ii) FINAL REPORT- Not later than January 30, 1997, the National Commission
  shall prepare and issue a comprehensive final report to the President,
  the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives,
  and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, containing
  the results and recommendations described in clause (i).
  `(3) POWERS-
  `(A) HEARINGS- The National Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at
  such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence as the
  National Commission determines to be necessary to carry out its functions.
  `(B) INFORMATION-
  `(i) FEDERAL ENTITIES- The National Commission may secure directly from
  any Federal department or agency such information (including statistics) as
  the National Commission considers necessary to carry out the functions of
  the National Commission. Upon request of the Chairperson of the National
  Commission, the head of such department or agency shall furnish such
  information to the National Commission.
  `(ii) OTHER ENTITIES- The National Commission may secure, directly or by
  contract or other means, such additional information as the National
  Commission determines to be necessary from universities, research
  institutions, foundations, State and local agencies, and other public or
  private agencies.
  `(C) CONSULTATION- The National Commission is authorized to consult with--
  `(i) any organization representing individuals with disabilities;
  `(ii) public or private service providers;
  `(iii) Federal, State, and local agencies;
  `(iv) individual experts;
  `(v) institutions of higher education involved in the preparation of
  vocational rehabilitation services personnel; and
  `(vi) such other entities and persons as will aid the National Commission
  in carrying out its duties.
  `(4) COMPENSATION AND TRAVEL EXPENSES-
  `(A) COMPENSATION- Each member of the National Commission who is not an
  officer or full-time employee of the Federal Government shall receive a
  payment of $150 for each day (including travel time) during which the member
  is engaged in the performance of duties for the National Commission. Members
  of the National Commission who are officers or full-time employees of the
  United States shall serve without compensation in addition to compensation
  received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.
  `(B) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member of the National Commission may receive
  travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized
  by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code, for employees serving
  intermittently in the Government service, for each day the member is
  engaged in the performance of duties away from the home or regular place
  of business of the member.
  `(5) STAFF-
  `(A) APPOINTMENT-
  `(i) STAFF DIRECTOR- The Chairperson of the National Commission may,
  without regard to provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
  appointments in the competitive service, appoint and terminate a staff
  director of the National Commission. The employment of the staff director
  shall be subject to confirmation by the National Commission. The staff
  director shall be appointed from among individuals who are experienced in
  the planning, administration, or operation of vocational rehabilitation
  and independent living services or programs.
  `(ii) ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL- The staff director of the National Commission
  may, without regard to provisions of title 5, United States Code,
  governing appointments in the competitive service, appoint and terminate
  such additional personnel as may be necessary, but not more than ten
  full-time equivalent positions, to enable the National Commission to carry
  out its duties.
  `(B) COMPENSATION- The Chairperson of the National Commission may fix the
  compensation of the staff director, and the staff director may fix the
  compensation of the additional personnel, without regard to the provisions
  of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States
  Code, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except
  that the rate of pay for the staff director and other personnel may not
  exceed the rate of pay for level 4 of the Senior Executive Service Schedule
  under section 5382 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(6) COOPERATION- The heads of all Federal agencies are, to the extent not
  prohibited by law, directed to cooperate with the National Commission in
  carrying out its duties. The National Commission may utilize the services,
  personnel, information, and facilities of other Federal, State, local,
  and private agencies with or without reimbursement, upon the consent of
  the heads of such agencies.
  `(7) DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES- Any Federal Government employee may be
  detailed to the National Commission without reimbursement, and such detail
  shall be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
  `(8) TERMINATION- The National Commission shall terminate not later than 90
  days following the submission of the final report as described in paragraph
  (2)(C)(ii).
  `(i) MODEL PERSONAL ASSISTANCE SERVICES SYSTEMS- The Commissioner may award
  grants to public or nonprofit agencies and organizations to establish
  model personal assistance services systems and other innovative service
  programs to maximize the full inclusion and integration into society,
  employment, independent living, and economic and social self-sufficiency
  of individuals with disabilities.
  `(j) DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS TO UPGRADE WORKER SKILLS-
  `(1) GRANTS- Consistent with the purposes of section 621, the Commissioner
  may make grants to partnerships or consortia that include private business
  concerns or industries to pay for the Federal share of developing and
  carrying out model demonstration projects for workers with disabilities who
  need new or upgraded skills to adapt to emerging technologies, work methods,
  and markets and to ensure that such individuals possess the knowledge and
  skills necessary to compete in the workplace.
  `(2) PERIOD- Grants made under this subsection shall be for 3-year periods.
  `(3) APPLICATION- Any partnership or consortia desiring to receive a grant
  under this subsection shall submit an application to the Commissioner at
  such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances
  as the Commissioner may require, including--
  `(A) information identifying at least one member of the partnership or
  consortium that is a private business concern or industry; and
  `(B) assurances that--
  `(i) each member of the eligible partnership or consortium will pay a
  portion of the non-Federal share of the cost of developing and carrying
  out the project;
  `(ii) the partnership or consortium will carry out all of the activities
  described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 621(a)(2);
  `(iii) the partnership or consortium will disseminate information on the
  model program conducted;
  `(iv) the partnership or consortium will utilize, if available, job
  skill standards established jointly by management and labor to assist in
  evaluating the job skills of an individual and assessing the skills that
  are needed for the individual to compete in the workplace;
  `(v) the partnership or consortium will prepare and submit an evaluation
  report containing data specified by the Commissioner at the end of each
  project year; and
  `(vi) the partnership or consortium will take such steps as are necessary to
  continue the activities of the project after the period for which Federal
  assistance is sought.
  `(4) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this subsection, the term `workers
  with disabilities' shall mean individuals with disabilities who are working
  in competitive employment and who need new or upgraded skills to improve
  their employment and career advancement opportunities.
  `(k) MODEL SYSTEMS REGARDING SEVERE DISABILITIES- The Commissioner may
  award grants to public or nonprofit agencies and organizations to establish
  model systems of comprehensive service delivery to individuals with severe
  disabilities, other than spinal cord injuries, requiring a multidisciplinary
  system of providing vocational and other rehabilitation services, where
  the Commissioner determines that the development of such systems is needed.
`SEC. 803. TRAINING ACTIVITIES.
  `(a) DISTANCE LEARNING THROUGH TELECOMMUNICATIONS-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner shall award at least three grants to
  eligible institutions of higher education, to support the formation of
  regional partnerships with other public or private entities for the
  purpose of developing and implementing in-service training programs,
  including certificate or degree granting programs concerning vocational
  rehabilitation services and related services, for vocational rehabilitation
  professionals through the use of telecommunications.
  `(2) APPLICATIONS- Any eligible entity that desires to receive a grant
  under this subsection shall submit an application at such time, in such
  manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Commissioner
  may require, including--
  `(A) a detailed explanation of how the applicant will utilize interactive
  audio, video, and computer technologies between distant locations to
  provide in-service training programs to the region;
  `(B) a description of how the applicant intends to utilize and build upon
  existing telecommunications networks within the region to be served;
  `(C) a copy of all agreements governing the division of functions within
  the partnership, including an assurance that all States within the region
  will be served;
  `(D) a copy of a binding commitment entered into between the partnership
  and each entity that is legally permitted to provide, and from which the
  partnership is to obtain, the telecommunications services and facilities
  required for the project, that stipulates that if the partnership receives
  the grant the entity will provide such telecommunications services and
  facilities in the area to be served within a reasonable time and at a
  charge that is in accordance with State law;
  `(E) a description of the curriculum to be provided, frequency of providing
  service, and sites of service;
  `(F) a description of the need to purchase or lease--
  `(i) computer hardware and software;
  `(ii) audio and video equipment;
  `(iii) telecommunications terminal equipment; or
  `(iv) interactive video equipment;
  `(G) an assurance that the partnership will use not less than 75 percent
  of the amount of the grant for instructional curriculum development and
  programming; and
  `(H) a description of the means by which the project will be evaluated.
  `(3) AWARD OF GRANTS- In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the
  Commissioner shall take into consideration the sparsity of State populations
  in the region to be served.
  `(4) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this subsection:
  `(A) ELIGIBLE ENTITY- The term `eligible entity' means any institution of
  higher education with demonstrated experience in the area of continuing
  education for vocational rehabilitation personnel.
  `(B) INTERACTIVE VIDEO EQUIPMENT- The term `interactive video equipment'
  means equipment used to produce and prepare video and audio signals for
  transmission between distant locations so that individuals at such locations
  can see and hear each other, and related equipment.
  `(C) REGION- The term `region' means one of the ten regions served by the
  Rehabilitation Services Administration.
  `(D) REHABILITATION PROFESSIONALS- The term `rehabilitation professionals'
  means personnel described in section 301(a)(1).
  `(b) BRAILLE TRAINING PROJECTS-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- The Commissioner shall make grants to and enter into
  contracts with States and public or nonprofit agencies and organizations,
  including institutions of higher education, to pay all or part of the
  cost of training in the use of Braille for personnel providing vocational
  rehabilitation services or educational services to youth and adults who
  are blind.
  `(2) PROJECTS- Such grants shall be used for the establishment or
  continuation of projects that may provide--
  `(A) development of Braille training materials; and
  `(B) in-service or pre-service training in the use of Braille and methods
  of teaching Braille to youth and adults who are blind.
  `(3) APPLICATION- To be eligible to receive a grant, or enter into a
  contract, under paragraph (1), an agency or organization shall submit an
  application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner, and containing
  such information as the Commissioner may require.
  `(c) PARENT INFORMATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS-
  `(1) GRANTS- The Commissioner is authorized to make grants through a
  separate competition to private nonprofit organizations for the purpose
  of establishing programs to provide training and information to enable
  individuals with disabilities, and the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or other authorized representatives of the individuals to
  participate more effectively with professionals in meeting the vocational
  and rehabilitation needs of individuals with disabilities.  Such grants
  shall be designed to meet the unique training and information needs of
  individuals with disabilities, and the parents, family members, guardians,
  advocates, or other authorized representatives of the individuals, who live
  in the area to be served, particularly those who are members of populations
  that have been unserved or underserved by programs under this Act.
  `(2) USE OF GRANTS- An organization that receives a grant to establish
  training and information programs under this subsection shall use the grant
  to assist individuals with disabilities, and the parents, family members,
  guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the individuals to--
  `(A) better understand vocational rehabilitation and independent living
  programs and services;
  `(B) provide followup support for transition and employment programs;
  `(C) communicate more effectively with transition and rehabilitation
  personnel and other relevant professionals;
  `(D) provide support in the development of the individualized written
  rehabilitation program;
  `(E) provide support and expertise in obtaining information about
  rehabilitation and independent living programs, services, and resources
  that are appropriate; and
  `(F) understand the provisions of this Act, particularly provisions relating
  to employment, supported employment, and independent living.
  `(3) AWARD OF GRANTS- The Commissioner shall ensure that grants under this
  subsection shall--
  `(A) be distributed geographically to the greatest extent possible throughout
  all States; and
  `(B) be targeted to individuals with disabilities, and the parents,
  family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of the
  individuals, in both urban and rural areas or on a State or regional basis.
  `(4) ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATIONS- In order to receive a grant under this
  subsection, a private nonprofit organization shall--
  `(A) submit an application to the Commissioner at such time, in such manner,
  and containing such information as the Commissioner may require, including
  information demonstrating the capacity and expertise of the organization to--
  `(i) coordinate and work closely with parent training and information
  centers established under section 631 of the Individuals with Disabilities
  Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431); and
  `(ii) effectively conduct the training and information activities authorized
  under this subsection;
  `(B)(i) be governed by a board of directors--
  `(I) that includes professionals in the field of vocational rehabilitation;
  and
  `(II) on which a majority of the members are individuals with disabilities
  or the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized
  representatives of the individuals; or
  `(ii)(I) have a membership that represents the interests of individuals
  with disabilities; and
  `(II) establish a special governing committee that meets the requirements
  specified in subclauses (I) and (II) of clause (i) to operate a training
  and information program under this subsection; and
  `(C) serve individuals with a full range of disabilities, and the parents,
  family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of
  the individuals.
  `(5) CONSULTATION- Each private nonprofit organization carrying out a program
  receiving assistance under this subsection shall consult with appropriate
  agencies that serve or assist individuals with disabilities, and the parents,
  family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of
  the individuals, located in the jurisdiction served by the program.
  `(6) COORDINATION- The Commissioner shall provide coordination and technical
  assistance by grant or cooperative agreement for establishing, developing,
  and coordinating the training and information programs.  To the extent
  practicable, such assistance shall be provided by the parent training and
  information centers established under section 631 of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431).
  `(7) REVIEW-
  `(A) QUARTERLY REVIEW- The board of directors or special governing committee
  of a nonprofit private organization receiving a grant under this subsection
  shall meet at least once in each calendar quarter to review the training
  and information program, and each such committee shall directly advise
  the governing board regarding the views and recommendations of the committee.
  `(B) REVIEW FOR GRANT RENEWAL- If a nonprofit private organization requests
  the renewal of a grant under this subsection, the board of directors or the
  special governing committee shall prepare and submit to the Commissioner
  a written review of the training and information program conducted by the
  nonprofit private organization during the preceding fiscal year.
  `(d) TRAINING REGARDING IMPARTIAL HEARING OFFICERS- The Commissioner may
  award grants to public or nonprofit agencies and organizations to provide
  training designed to provide impartial hearing officers with the skills
  necessary to fairly decide appeals under this Act.
  `(e) RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF URBAN PERSONNEL- The Commissioner may
  award grants to public or nonprofit agencies and organizations to develop
  and demonstrate innovative methods to attract and retain professionals to
  serve in urban areas in the rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities,
  including individuals with severe disabilities.
  `(f) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- The requirements of subsections (a) (except the
  first sentence), (b), and (c), of section 302, and paragraphs (1) and (2)
  of subsection (g) of such section, shall apply with respect to grants made
  available under this section, other than subsection (c). The requirements
  of section 306 shall apply with respect to grants made available under
  this section.'.
  (b) ACCOUNT- There shall be established an account with a distinct designated
  budget account identification code number in the President's budget, for
  activities under title VIII of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Funding
  for such activities shall be available only to such extent as is provided,
  or in such amounts as are provided, in appropriations Acts. Such account
  shall be separate and distinct from the accounts for all other activities
  under titles I through VII of such Act.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents relating to the Act is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
`TITLE VIII--SPECIAL DEMONSTRATIONS AND TRAINING PROJECTS
`Sec. 801. Authorization of appropriations.
`Sec. 802. Demonstration activities.
`Sec. 803. Training activities.'.
TITLE IX--AMENDMENTS TO OTHER ACTS
Subtitle A--Helen Keller National Center
SEC. 901. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
  Section 202 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1901)
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting `, the rapidly increasing number of
  older persons many of whom are experiencing significant losses of both
  vision and hearing,' after `1960's'; and
  (2) in paragraph (5), by striking `invested approximately $10,000,000'
  and inserting `made a substantial investment'.
SEC. 902. CONTINUED OPERATION OF CENTER.
  Section 203 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1902)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (a);
  (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (a) and (b),
  respectively;
  (3) in subsection (a) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2))--
  (A) by striking `pursuant to section 313 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973'
  and inserting `prior to the date of enactment of this Act'; and
  (B) by striking `(c)' and inserting `(b)'; and
  (4) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated by paragraph (2))--
  (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
  respectively;
  (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
  `(2) train family members of individuals who are deaf-blind at the Center
  or anywhere else in the United States, in order to assist family members
  in providing and obtaining appropriate services for the individual who
  is deaf-blind;'.
SEC. 903. AUDIT, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION.
  Section 204 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1903)
  is amended in subsection (a) by striking `at such time as the Secretary
  shall prescribe' and inserting `within 15 days following the completion
  of the audit and acceptance of the audit by the Center'.
SEC. 904. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 205 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1904) is
  amended in subsection (a) by striking `1987 through 1992' and inserting
  `1993 through 1997'.
SEC. 905. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 206 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1905)
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `section 313 of the Rehabilitation Act
  of 1973 and continued under'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2), to read as follows:
  `(2) the term `individual who is deaf-blind' means any individual--
  `(A)(i) who has a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better
  eye with corrective lenses, or a field defect such that the peripheral
  diameter of visual field subtends an angular distance no greater than 20
  degrees, or a progressive visual loss having a prognosis leading to one
  or both these conditions;
  `(ii) who has a chronic hearing impairment so severe that most speech
  cannot be understood with optimum amplification, or a progressive hearing
  loss having a prognosis leading to this condition; and
  `(iii) for whom the combination of impairments described in clauses (i)
  and (ii) cause extreme difficulty in attaining independence in daily life
  activities, achieving psychosocial adjustment, or obtaining a vocation;
  `(B) who despite the inability to be measured accurately for hearing and
  vision loss due to cognitive or behavioral constraints, or both, can be
  determined through functional and performance assessment to have severe
  hearing and visual disabilities that cause extreme difficulty in attaining
  independence in daily life activities, achieving psychosocial adjustment,
  or obtaining vocational objectives; or
  `(C) meets such other requirements as the Secretary may prescribe by
  regulation; and'.
SEC. 906. CONSTRUCTION OF ACT, EFFECT ON AGREEMENTS.
  Section 207 of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1906)
  is amended by striking `Industrial Home for the Blind, Incorporated'
  and inserting `Helen Keller Services for the Blind, Incorporated'.
SEC. 907. ESTABLISHMENT OF A PROGRAM.
  The Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) is amended
  by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 208. HELEN KELLER NATIONAL CENTER FEDERAL ENDOWMENT PROGRAM.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary and the Board of Directors of the Helen
  Keller National Center are authorized to establish the Helen Keller National
  Center Federal Endowment Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the
  `Endowment Fund') in accordance with the provisions of this section, to
  promote the financial independence of the Helen Keller National Center. The
  Secretary and the Board may enter into such agreements as may be necessary
  to carry out the purposes of this section.
  `(b) FEDERAL PAYMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall make payments to the Endowment Fund
  from amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (h), consistent with the
  provisions of this section.
  `(2) AMOUNT OF PAYMENT- Subject to the availability of appropriations,
  the Secretary shall make payments to the Endowment Fund in amounts equal to
  sums contributed to the Endowment Fund from non-Federal sources (excluding
  transfers from other endowment funds of the Center).
  `(c) INVESTMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Center, in investing the Endowment Fund corpus
  and income, shall exercise the judgment and care, under the prevailing
  circumstances, which a person of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
  would exercise in the management of that person's own business affairs.
  `(2) LIMITATIONS-
  `(A) FEDERALLY INSURED INVESTMENTS AND OTHER INVESTMENTS- The Endowment
  Fund corpus and income shall be invested in federally insured bank savings
  accounts or comparable interest bearing accounts, certificates of deposit,
  money market funds, mutual funds, obligations of the United States, or
  other low-risk instruments and securities in which a regulated insurance
  company may invest under the laws of the State of New York.
  `(B) REAL ESTATE- The Endowment Fund corpus and income may not be invested
  in real estate.
  `(C) CONFLICT OF INTEREST- The Endowment Fund corpus or income may not be
  invested in instruments or securities issued by an organization in which an
  executive officer is a controlling shareholder, director, or owner within
  the meaning of Federal securities laws and other applicable laws.
  `(D) ENCUMBRANCES- The Center may not assign, hypothecate, encumber,
  or create a lien on the Endowment Fund corpus without specific written
  authorization of the Secretary.
  `(d) WITHDRAWALS AND EXPENDITURES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- For a 20-year period following the receipt of a payment
  under this section, the Center shall not withdraw or expend the Federal
  payment or matching contribution made to the Endowment Fund corpus. On the
  expiration of such period, the Center may use the Endowment Fund corpus plus
  any of the Endowment Fund income for any purpose that benefits individuals
  who are deaf-blind.
  `(2) OPERATIONAL AND COMMERCIAL EXPENSES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Helen Keller National Center may withdraw or expend the
  Endowment Fund income for any expenses necessary for the operation of the
  Center, including expenses of operations and maintenance, administration,
  academic and support personnel, construction and renovation, community
  and client services programs, technical assistance, and research.
  `(B) LIMITATION- The Center may not withdraw or expend the Endowment Fund
  income for any commercial purpose.
  `(3) LIMITATIONS AND WAIVER OF LIMITATIONS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Center shall
  not withdraw or expend more than 50 percent of the total aggregate Endowment
  Fund income earned prior to the time of withdrawal or expenditure.
  `(B) EXCEPTION- The Secretary may permit the Center to withdraw or expend
  more than 50 percent of its total aggregate endowment income where the
  Center demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that such withdrawal
  or expenditure is necessary because of--
  `(i) a financial emergency, such as a pending insolvency or temporary
  liquidity problem;
  `(ii) a life-threatening situation occasioned by a natural disaster or
  arson; or
  `(iii) another unusual occurrence or exigent circumstance.
  `(e) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS-
  `(1) FINANCIAL RECORDS- The Helen Keller National Center shall keep accurate
  financial records relating to the operation of the Endowment Fund.
  `(2) AUDIT AND REPORT-
  `(A) AUDIT- The Center shall arrange for the conduct of an annual financial
  and compliance audit of the Endowment Fund in the manner prescribed by
  the Secretary pursuant to section 204(a) (29 U.S.C. 1903(a)).
  `(B) REPORT- The Center shall submit a copy of the report on the audit
  required under subparagraph (A) to the Secretary within 15 days after
  completion of the audit and acceptance of the audit by the Center.
  `(3) ANNUAL REPORT- Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal
  year, the Center shall provide to the Secretary an annual report on the
  uses of funds provided by the Federal endowment program authorized under
  this section. Such report shall contain such information, and be in such
  form as the Secretary may require.
  `(f) RECOVERY OF PAYMENTS- After notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
  the Secretary is authorized to recover any Federal payments made under
  this section if the Helen Keller National Center--
  `(1) makes a withdrawal or expenditure from the Endowment Fund corpus or
  income which is not consistent with the provisions of this section;
  `(2) fails to comply with the investment standards and limitations under
  this section; or
  `(3) fails to account properly to the Secretary concerning the investment
  of or expenditures from the Endowment Fund corpus or income.
  `(g) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section:
  `(1) ENDOWMENT FUND- The term `endowment fund' means a fund, or a tax-exempt
  foundation, established and maintained by the Helen Keller National Center
  for the purpose of generating income for the support of the Center.
  `(2) ENDOWMENT FUND CORPUS- The term `Endowment Fund corpus' means an
  amount equal to the Federal payments made to the Endowment Fund and amounts
  contributed to the Endowment Fund from non-Federal sources.
  `(3) ENDOWMENT FUND INCOME- The term `Endowment Fund income' means an
  amount equal to the total market value of the Endowment Fund minus the
  Endowment Fund corpus.
  `(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section, such sums as may be necessary for each of the
  fiscal years 1993 through 1997. Such sums shall remain available until
  expended.'.
SEC. 908. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
  (a) DEAF-BLIND INDIVIDUALS- Paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 202,
  and section 203(b)(3) (as so redesignated by paragraphs (2) and (4)(A)
  of section 902), of the Helen Keller National Center Act (29 U.S.C. 1901
  and 1902(b)(3)) are amended by striking `deaf-blind individuals' each
  place the term appears and inserting `individuals who are deaf-blind'.
  (b) DEAF-BLIND INDIVIDUAL- Section 203(b)(1) of such Act (29
  U.S.C. 1902(b)(1)) (as so redesignated by section 902(2)) is amended
  by striking `deaf-blind individual' and inserting `individual who is
  deaf-blind'.
  (c) DEAF-BLIND YOUTHS AND ADULTS-
  (1) Sections 202(4), 203(a) (as so redesignated by section 902(2)), and
  206(1) of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1901(4), 1902(a), and 1905(1)) are amended
  by striking `Deaf-Blind Youths and Adults' each place the term appears
  and inserting `Youths and Adults who are Deaf-Blind'.
  (2) Section 203 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1902) is amended in the section
  heading by striking `DEAF-BLIND YOUTHS AND ADULTS' and inserting `YOUTHS
  AND ADULTS WHO ARE DEAF-BLIND'.
Subtitle B--Other Programs
SEC. 911. COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY
DISABLED.
  (a) WAGNER-O'DAY ACT- Section 1 of the Act entitled `An Act to Create a
  Committee on Purchases of Blind-made Products, and for other purposes',
  approved June 25, 1938 (commonly known as the Wagner-O'Day Act; 41 U.S.C. 46)
  is amended by striking `from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped'
  and inserting `From People Who Are Blind and Severely Disabled'.
  (b) SMALL BUSINESS ACT- Section 15(c)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act
  (15 U.S.C. 644(c)(1)(A)) is amended by striking `from the Blind and Other
  Severely Handicapped' and inserting `From People Who Are Blind or Severely
  Disabled'.
SEC. 912. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION ACT.
  (a) TRAINING OR RETRAINING- Section 631(a) of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431(a)) is amended by adding at
  the end thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(8) In making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary may provide for
  the training or retraining of regular education teachers who are involved
  in providing instruction to individuals who are deaf, but who are not
  certified as teachers of such individuals, to meet the communications
  needs of such individuals.'.
  (b) NOTICE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary of Education shall issue a Notice of Inquiry concerning
  the definition of the term `serious emotional disturbance' as used in the
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
  (2) PUBLIC COMMENT- The Secretary of Education shall provide a public
  comment period of at least 90 days and shall request and consider--
  (A) comments from the public on the need to revise the definition of the
  term in the regulations implementing such Act; and
  (B) comments from the public on whether the term as used in such Act
  should be changed and on whether the substitution of the term `emotional
  and behavioral disorders' would be appropriate, or whether some other term
  should be used.
  (3) DEFINITION- The Notice of Inquiry shall contain the following proposed
  definition for use in the regulations implementing such Act:
  `(1) As used in section 602(a)(1) of the Individuals with Disabilities
  Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(1)):
  `(A) The term `serious emotional disturbance' means a disability that is--
  `(i) characterized by behavioral or emotional response in school programs
  so different from appropriate age, cultural, or ethnic norms that the
  responses adversely affect educational performance, including academic,
  social, vocational or personal skills;
  `(ii) more than a temporary, expected response to stressful events in
  the environment;
  `(iii) consistently exhibited in two different settings, at least one of
  which is school-related; and
  `(iv) unresponsive to direct intervention applied in general education,
  or the condition of a child is such that general education interventions
  would be insufficient.
  `(B) The term includes such a disability that co-exists with other
  disabilities.
  `(C) The term includes a schizophrenic disorder, affective disorder,
  anxiety disorder, or other sustained disorder of conduct or adjustment,
  affecting a child, if the disorder affects educational performance as
  described in paragraph (1).
  `(2) The term `seriously emotionally disturbed' means, with respect to a
  child, that the child has a serious emotional disturbance.'.
  (4) REPORT- The Secretary shall, within 10 months after the date of enactment
  of this Act, prepare a report containing a summary of the public comments
  described in paragraph (2)(B) received as a result of the Notice of Inquiry,
  and recommendations concerning whether such Act should be amended. The report
  shall be submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress, including
  the Subcommittee on Select Education of the Committee on Education and
  Labor of the House of Representatives, and the Subcommittee on Disability
  Policy of the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
SEC. 913. TECHNOLOGY-RELATED ASSISTANCE FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
ACT OF 1988.
  The Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities Act
  of 1988 is amended--
  (1) in section 221(a)(1) (29 U.S.C. 2251(a)(1)), by striking `nonprofit
  or for-profit entities' and inserting `public or private agencies and
  organizations, including institutions of higher education,';
  (2) in section 222(a) (29 U.S.C. 2252(a)), by striking `nonprofit and
  for-profit entities' and inserting `public or private agencies and
  organizations, including institutions of higher education,'; and
  (3) in section 231(a) (29 U.S.C. 2252(a)), by striking `nonprofit and
  for-profit entities' and inserting `public or private agencies and
  organizations, including institutions of higher education,'.
SEC. 914. PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES.
  The Joint Resolution entitled `Joint Resolution authorizing an appropriation
  for the work of the President's Committee on National Employ the Physically
  Handicapped Week', approved July 11, 1949 (36 U.S.C. 155a) is amended--
  (1) by striking `handicapped persons' and inserting `persons with
  disabilities';
  (2) by striking `the handicapped' and inserting `such persons';
  (3) by striking `for each of the fiscal years 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990,
  and 1991,' and inserting `for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, 1995,
  1996, and 1997,'; and
  (4) by striking `The President's Committee on Employment of the Handicapped
  shall be guided by the general policies of the National Council on the
  Handicapped.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.