 
--H.R.2660--
H.R.2660
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for the United States Holocaust Memorial Council,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 8 of the Act of October 7, 1980 (Public Law 96-388; 36 U.S.C. 1408)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 8.  AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `To carry out the purposes of this Act there are authorized to be
  appropriated such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1993 and for each
  succeeding fiscal year through fiscal year 2000. Notwithstanding any other
  provision of law, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Council such
  amounts as may be necessary to obtain, from a private insurance carrier,
  insurance against loss in connection with the memorial museum and related
  property and exhibits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act,
  no funds authorized under this Act may be used for construction. Authority
  to enter into contracts and to make payments under this Act, using funds
  authorized to be appropriated under this section shall be effective only to
  the extent, and in such amounts, as provided in advance in appropriations
  Acts.'.
SEC. 2. REPORT.
  The Act of October 7, 1980 (Public Law 96-388; 36 U.S.C. 1401 and following)
  is amended by adding the following new section at the end thereof:
`SEC. 11. REPORT.
  `The Council shall submit to Congress by June 30, 1995, a report containing
  each of the following:
  `(1) A description of the extent to which the objectives of this Act are
  being met.
  `(2) An examination of future major endeavors, initiatives, programs,
  or activities that the Council or museum proposes to undertake to better
  fulfill the objectives of this Act.
  `(3) An examination of the Federal role in the funding of the Council and
  its activities, and any changes that may be warranted.'.
SEC. 3. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS.
  The Act of October 7, 1980 (Public Law 96-388; 36 U.S.C. 1401) is amended
  as follows:
  (1) In section 1, strike `oversee the operation of,' in paragraph (2)
  and insert `operate,'.
  (2) Section 6 is amended by adding the following at the end thereof:
  `(d) All employees of the memorial who on April 1, 1993, including employees
  currently on excepted appointments covered under schedules A, B, and C who
  are performing inherently governmental functions which will continue after
  the opening of the museum shall be brought into the competitive service
  in accordance with the classification and pay policy guidelines contained
  in title V of the United States Code.
  `(e) The Council shall maintain insurance on the memorial museum to cover
  such risks, in such amount, and containing such terms and conditions as
  the Council deems necessary.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.