 
--H.R.2313--
H.R.2313
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the School Dropout Demonstration Assistance Act of 1988 to extend
authorization of appropriations through fiscal year 1993, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO SCHOOL DROPOUT DEMONSTRATION ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1988
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Dropout Prevention Act of 1991'.
SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 6003(a) of the School Dropout Demonstration Assistance Act of 1988
 (hereafter in this title referred to as the `Act') (20 U.S.C. 3243(a))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), there are authorized to be
 appropriated for the purposes of this part $50,000,000 for fiscal year
 1991 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1992
 and 1993.'.
SEC. 103. GRANTS TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.
 (a) AMENDMENTS- Section 6004 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 3244) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `$1,500,000' and inserting `$2,000,000';
 (2) in subsection (c), by inserting after `value as a demonstration.' the
 following: `Any local educational agency, educational partnership, or
 community-based organization that has received a grant under this Act shall
 be eligible for additional funds subject to the requirements under this
 Act.'; and
 (3) in subparagraph (B) of subsection (f)(1), by striking `for the second
 such year' and inserting `in each succeeding fiscal year'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
 on October 1, 1992.
SEC. 104. DROPOUT PREVENTION.
 Section 6005 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 3245) is amended by adding at the end
 thereof the following new subsection:
 `(e) GRANTS FOR NEW GRANTEES- In awarding grants under this part in fiscal
 year 1992 and each fiscal year thereafter to applicants who did not receive
 a grant under this part in fiscal year 1991, the Secretary shall utilize
 only those priorities and special considerations described in subsections
 (c) and (d).'.
SEC. 105. AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.
 Section 6006(b) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 3246(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (8), by striking `and'; and
 (2) by striking paragraph (9) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
 `(9) mentoring programs; and
 `(10) any other activity described in subsection (a).'.
SEC. 106. REPORTS.
 The Act (20 U.S.C. 3241 et seq.) is further amended by adding at the end
 the following new section:
`SEC. 6008. REPORTS.
 `(a) ANNUAL REPORTS- The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report by
 January 1 of each year, beginning on January 1, 1993, which sets forth the
 progress of the Commissioner of Education Statistics, established under
 section 406(a) of the General Education Provisions Act, to implement a
 definition and data collection process for school dropouts in elementary
 and secondary schools, including statistical information for the number and
 percentage of elementary and secondary school students by race and ethnic
 origin who drop out of school each year including dropouts--
 `(1) throughout the Nation by rural and urban location as defined by the
 Secretary; and
 `(2) in each of the individual States and the District of Columbia.
 `(b) RECOMMENDATIONS- The report under subsection (a) shall also contain
 recommendations on ways in which the Federal Government, States and localities
 can further support the implementation of an effective methodology to
 accurately measure dropout and retention rates on the national, State,
 and local levels.'.
TITLE II--DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF POSITION.
 Section 202 of the Department of Education Organization Act (20 U.S.C. 3412)
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
 `(d) There may be in the Department an Under Secretary of Education who
 shall perform such functions as the Secretary may prescribe. The Under
 Secretary shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
 consent of the Senate.'.
SEC. 202. COMPENSATION.
 Section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end thereof the following:
`Under Secretary of Education'.
SEC. 203. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- This Act shall take effect on the first day of the first
 Department of Education pay period that begins on or after the date of
 enactment of this Act.
 (b) SPECIAL RULE- An incumbent in a position within the Department of
 Education on the day preceding the day that this Act takes effect who has
 been appointed by the President to a position within the Department of
 Education with the advice and consent of the Senate may serve as the Under
 Secretary at the pleasure of the President after the day preceding the day
 that this Act takes effect.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
PART A--STAR SCHOOLS
SEC. 301. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 Section 902 of the Star Schools Program Assistance Act (hereafter in this
 title referred to as the `Act') (20 U.S.C. 4081) is amended--
 (1) by striking `vocational education' and inserting `literacy skills and
 vocational education and to serve underserved populations including the
 disadvantaged, illiterate, limited-English proficient, and disabled';
 (2) by striking `demonstration'; and
 (3) by inserting `to' before `obtain'.
SEC. 302. PROGRAM AUTHORIZED.
 Section 903 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 4082) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting `(1)' before `The Secretary'; and
 (B) by inserting at the end thereof the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) The Secretary shall award grants pursuant to paragraph (1) for a period
 of 2 years.
 `(3) Grants awarded pursuant to paragraph (1) may be awarded for an additional
 2-year period in accordance with section 907.';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `$100,000,000 for the period beginning
 October 1, 1987, and ending September 30, 1992' and inserting `$50,000,000
 for fiscal year 1992 and such sums as may be necessary in fiscal year 1993';
 (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
 (C) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);
 (3) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in paragraph (1)--
 (i) in subparagraph (A)--
 (I) by striking `(A)';
 (II) by striking `demonstration'; and
 (III) by inserting `in any one fiscal year' after `$10,000,000'; and
 (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
 (B) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by inserting `(A)' after `(2)';
 (ii) by inserting `to the Secretary' after `available'; and
 (iii) by inserting at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) Not less than 25 percent of the funds available to the Secretary in any
 fiscal year under this title shall be used for telecommunications facilities
 and equipment.'; and
 (4) by inserting at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(e) COORDINATION- The Department of Education, the National Science
 Foundation, the Department of Agriculture, and any other Federal agency
 operating a telecommunications network for educational purposes shall
 coordinate the activities assisted under such programs.'.
SEC. 303. ELIGIBLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS PARTNERSHIPS.
 Subsection (a) of section 904 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 4083(a)) is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking `demonstration';
 (2) in paragraph (2)--
 (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking `, or a State higher education agency';
 (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting `or a State higher education agency'
 after `education';
 (C) in subparagraph (D)--
 (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by inserting `or academy' after
 `center'; and
 (ii) by striking `or' at the end of clause (ii); and
 (D) in subparagraph (E)--
 (i) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
 `(i) a public or private entity with experience and expertise in the planning
 and operation of a telecommunications network, including entities involved
 in telecommunications through satellite, cable, telephone, or computer; or';
 (ii) by striking clause (ii);
 (iii) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii); and
 (iv) by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) (as redesignated by
 clause (iii)) and inserting a comma and `or'; and
 (E) by inserting at the end thereof the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) a public or private elementary or secondary school.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(c) SPECIAL STATEWIDE NETWORK-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may fund one statewide telecommunications
 network under this title if such network--
 `(A) provides two-way full motion interactive video and audio communications;
 `(B) links together public colleges and universities and secondary schools
 throughout the State; and
 `(C) meets any other requirements determined appropriate by the Secretary.
 `(2) STATE CONTRIBUTION- A statewide telecommunications network funded
 under paragraph (1) shall contribute (either directly or through private
 contributions) non-Federal funds equal to not less than 50 percent of the
 cost of such network.'.
SEC. 304. APPLICATIONS.
 Section 905 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 4084) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)--
 (A) in paragraph (1)--
 (i) in subparagraph (B), by inserting `, or any combination thereof' after
 `equipment'; and
 (ii) in subparagraph (G) by--
 (I) striking `elementary and secondary school teachers (particularly
 teachers in schools receiving assistance under chapter 1 of title I of
 the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965) in' and inserting
 `instructors who will be'; and
 (II) inserting `in using such facilities and equipment, and in  integrating
 programs into the class curriculum' after `sought';
 (B) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by striking `describe,';
 (ii) by inserting `describe' after `instructional programming,'; and
 (iii) by inserting `and provide assurances that such programming will be
 designed in consultation with professionals who are experts in the applicable
 subject matter and grade level' after `training';
 (C) in paragraph (3), by inserting `(in accordance with section 907)' after
 `languages,';
 (D) in paragraph (4)--
 (i) by  striking `teacher'; and
 (ii) by inserting `for teachers and other school personnel' after `policies';
 (E) in paragraph (6)--
 (i) by striking `the facilities' and inserting `any facilities';
 (ii) by striking `will be made available to' and inserting `for'; and
 (iii) by inserting `will be made available to schools' after `schools';
 (F) in paragraph (7)--
 (i) by inserting `(such as students who are disadvantaged, limited-English
 proficient, disabled, or illiterate)' after `students'; and
 (ii) in paragraph (7), by inserting `and will use existing telecommunications
 equipment, where available' before the semicolon at the end thereof;
 (G) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
 (H) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
 (I) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new paragraph:
 `(9) describe the activities or services for which assistance is sought,
 including activities and services such as--
 `(A) providing facilities, equipment, training, services, and technical
 assistance described in paragraphs (1), (2), (4) and (7);
 `(B) making programs accessible to individuals with disabilities through
 mechanisms such as closed captioning and descriptive video services;
 `(C) linking networks together, for example, around an issue of national
 importance such as elections;
 `(D) sharing curriculum materials between networks;
 `(E) providing teacher and student support services;
 `(F) incorporating community resources such as libraries and museums into
 instructional programs;
 `(G) providing teacher training to early  childhood development and Head
 Start teachers and staff;
 `(H) providing teacher training to vocational education teachers and
 staff; and
 `(I) providing programs for adults at times other than the regular school day
 in order to maximize the use of telecommunications facilities and equipment.';
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) in paragraph (3)--
 (i) by striking `public and private' and inserting `, in the case of
 elementary and secondary schools, those';
 (ii) striking `(particularly schools'; and
 (iii) striking `1965)' and inserting `1965';
 (B) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (6);
 (C) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (9);
 (D) by redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (7);
 (E) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
 `(6) the eligible telecommunications partnership will--
 `(A) provide a comprehensive range of courses for educators with different
 skill levels to teach instructional strategies for students with different
 skill levels;
 `(B) provide training to participating educators in ways to integrate
 telecommunications courses into the existing school curriculum; and
 `(C) include instruction for students, teachers, and parents;'; and
 (F) by inserting after paragraph (7) (as redesignated by subparagraph (D))
 the following new paragraph:
 `(8) a telecommunications entity (such as a satellite, cable, telephone,
 computer, or public or private television station) will participate
 in the partnership and will donate equipment or in-kind services for
 telecommunications linkages; and'.
SEC. 305. CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY.
 The Act (20 U.S.C. 4081 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 907 as section 911; and
 (2) by inserting after section 906 the following new sections:
`CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY
 `SEC. 907. (a) IN GENERAL- In order to be eligible to receive an
 additional grant under section 903(a)(3) in any fiscal year, an eligible
 telecommunications partnership shall demonstrate in the application submitted
 pursuant to section 905 that such partnership will--
 `(1) continue to provide services in the subject areas and geographic areas
 assisted with funds received under this title in previous fiscal years; and
 `(2) use all such grant funds to provide expanded services by--
 `(A) increasing the number of students, schools or school districts served by
 the courses of instruction assisted under this title in previous fiscal years;
 `(B) providing new courses of instruction; or
 `(C) serving new populations of underserved individuals, such as children or
 adults who are disadvantaged, have limited-English proficiency, are disabled,
 are illiterate, lack high school diplomas or their equivalent.
 `(b) SPECIAL RULES- Grant funds received pursuant to the application
 of subsection (a) shall be used to supplement and not supplant services
 provided by the recipient under this title in previous fiscal years.
`EVALUATION
 `SEC. 908. (a) IN GENERAL- From amounts appropriated pursuant to the
 authority of section 903(b), the Secretary shall reserve the greater of
 not more  than $500,000 or 5 percent of such appropriations to conduct an
 independent evaluation by grant, contract or cooperative agreement, of the
 Star Schools Assistance Program.
 `(b) REPORT- The Secretary shall prepare and submit an interim report on
 the evaluation described in subsection (a) not later than January 1, 1993
 and shall prepare and submit a final report on such evaluation not later
 than June 1, 1993.
 `(c) EVALUATION- Such evaluation shall include--
 `(1) a review of the effectiveness of telecommunications partnerships and
 programs after Federal funding ceases;
 `(2) an analysis of non-Federal funding sources, including funds leveraged
 by Star Schools funds and the permanency of such funding;
 `(3) an analysis of how Star Schools grantees spend funds appropriated
 under this Act;
 `(4) a review of the subject matter, content effectiveness, and success of
 distance learning through Star Schools program funds, including an in-depth
 study of student learning outcomes as measured against stated course
 objectives of distance learning courses offered by Star Schools grantees;
 `(5) a comprehensive review of in-service teacher training programs through
 Star Schools programming, including the number of teachers trained, time
 spent in training programs, and a comparison of the effectiveness of such
 training and conventional teacher training programs;
 `(6) an analysis of Star School projects that focus on teacher certification
 and other requirements and the resulting effect on the delivery of
 instructional programming;
 `(7) the effects of distance learning on curricula and staffing patterns
 at participating schools;
 `(8) the number of students participating in the Star Schools program and
 an analysis of the socioeconomic characteristics of students participating
 in Star Schools programs, including a review of the differences and
 effectiveness of programming and services provided to economically and
 educationally disadvantaged and minority students;
 `(9) an analysis of the socioeconomic and geographic characteristics of
 schools participating in Star Schools projects, including a review of the
 variety of programming provided to different schools; and
 `(10) the impact of dissemination grants under section 910 on the use of
 technology-based programs in local educational agencies.
`FEDERAL ACTIVITIES
 `SEC. 909. The Secretary may assist grant recipients under this title in
 acquiring satellite time, where appropriate, as economically as possible.
`DISSEMINATION GRANTS
 `SEC. 910. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall make grants under this section
 to telecommunications partnerships funded by the Star Schools Program and to
 other eligible entities to enable such partnerships and entities to provide
 dissemination and technical assistance to State and local educational
 agencies not presently served by telecommunication partnerships.
 `(b) SPECIAL RULE- The Secretary shall make grants under this section in any
 fiscal year in which the amount appropriated for this title exceeds the amount
 appropriated for this title in fiscal year 1991 by not less than 10 percent.
 `(c) RESERVATION- In any fiscal year in which the Secretary awards grants
 under this section in accordance with subsection (b), the Secretary shall
 reserve not less than 5 percent but not more than 10 percent of the amount
 appropriated under this title for such fiscal year to award such grants.
 `(d) APPLICATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each telecommunications partnership and other eligible
 entity that desires to receive a grant under this section shall submit an
 application to the Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and containing
 or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
 `(2) CONTENTS- Each application described in paragraph (2) shall contain
 assurances that the telecommunications partnership or other eligible entity
 shall provide technical assistance to State and local educational agencies
 to plan and implement technology-based systems, including--
 `(A) information regarding successful distance learning resources for States,
 local educational agencies, and schools;
 `(B) assistance in connecting users of distance learning, regional educational
 service centers, colleges and universities, the private sector, and other
 relevant entities;
 `(C) assistance and advice in the design and implementation of systems to
 include needs assessments and technology design; and
 `(D) support for the identification of possible connections, and cost-sharing
 arrangements for users of such systems.
 `(e) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `eligible entity'
 means a federally funded program or an institution of higher education that
 has demonstrated expertise in educational applications of technology and
 provides comprehensive technical assistance to educators and policy makers
 at the local level.'.
PART B--TECHNICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 311. CARL D. PERKINS VOCATIONAL AND APPLIED TECHNOLOGY EDUCATION ACT.
 (a) CORRECTIONS EDUCATION- Subsection (c) of section 102 of the Carl
 D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2312)
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by--
 (A) striking `paragraph (2)' and inserting `paragraph (3)';
 (B) inserting `and' before `the sex equity'; and
 (C) striking `and the program for criminal offenders under section 225,';
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
 (3) by inserting the following new paragraph after paragraph (1):
 `(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) and notwithstanding the provisions
 of subsection (a), each State shall reserve for the program for criminal
 offenders under section 225, an amount that is not less than the amount such
 State expended under this Act for such program for the fiscal year 1990.'.
 (b) INDIAN AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN PROGRAMS- Paragraph (1) of section 103(b)
 of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20
 U.S.C. 2313(b)(1)) is amended by inserting at the end thereof the following
 new subparagraph:
 `(D)(i) Funds received pursuant to grants and contracts described in
 subparagraph (A) may be used to provide stipends to students who are enrolled
 in vocational education programs and who have acute economic needs which
 cannot be met through work-study programs.
 `(ii) Stipends described in clause (i) shall not exceed reasonable amounts
 as prescribed by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 312. THE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION ACT OF 1965.
  Subsection (c) of section 1221 of the Elementary and Secondary Education
  Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2791(c)) is amended by adding at the end thereof
  the following new paragraph:
 `(3) SPECIAL RULE- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, for purposes
 of determining the amount of a grant under this subsection for which a State
 educational agency is eligible from funds appropriated for the program
 assisted under this subpart for each fiscal year beginning after October
 1, 1990, the Secretary shall allow intermediate school districts to count
 children with disabilities in the same manner as such children were counted
 in determining such amount in fiscal year 1990, regardless of whether such
 children receive services directly from the intermediate school district.'.
SEC. 313. NATIONAL LITERACY ACT AMENDMENTS.
 Section 601 of the National Literacy Act of 1991 is amended to read as
 follows:
`SEC. 601. FUNCTIONAL LITERACY AND LIFE SKILLS PROGRAMS FOR STATE AND LOCAL
PRISONERS.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary is authorized to make grants to eligible
 entities to assist such entities in establishing, improving, and expanding
 a demonstration or system-wide functional literacy program.
 `(b) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS- (1) To qualify for funding under subsection (d),
 each functional literacy program shall--
 `(A) to the extent possible, make use of advanced technologies, such as
 interactive video- and computer-based adult literacy learning; and
 `(B) include--
 `(i) a requirement that each person incarcerated in the system, prison,
 jail, or detention center who is not functionally literate, except a
 person described in paragraph (2), shall participate in the program until
 the person--
 `(I) achieves functional literacy, or in the case of an individual with a
 disability, achieves a level of functional literacy commensurate with his
 or her ability;
 `(II) is granted parole;
 `(III) completes his or her sentence; or
 `(IV) is released pursuant to court order; and
 `(ii) a prohibition on granting parole to any person described in clause
 (i) who refuses to participate in the program, unless the State parole board
 determines that the prohibition should be waived in a particular case; and
 `(iii) adequate opportunities for appropriate education services and the
 screening and testing of all inmates for functional literacy and disabilities
 affecting functional literacy, including learning disabilities, upon arrival
 in the system or at the prison, jail, or detention center.
 `(2) The requirement of paragraph (1)(B)(i) may not apply to a person who--
 `(A) is serving a life sentence without possibility of parole;
 `(B) is terminally ill; or
 `(C) is under a sentence of death.
 `(c) ANNUAL REPORT- (1) Within 90 days after the close of the first calendar
 year in which a literacy program authorized by subsection (a) is placed
 in operation, and annually for each of the 4 years thereafter, a grantee
 shall submit a report to the Secretary with respect to its literacy program.
 `(2) A report under paragraph (1) shall disclose--
 `(A) the number of persons who were tested for eligibility during the
 preceding year;
 `(B) the number of persons who were eligible for the literacy program during
 the preceding year;
 `(C) the number of persons who participated in the literacy program during
 the preceding year;
 `(D) the names and types of tests that were used to determine functional
 literacy and the names and types of tests that were used to determine
 disabilities affecting functional literacy;
 `(E) the average number of hours of instruction that were provided per week
 and the average number per student during the preceding year;
 `(F) sample data on achievement of participants in the program, including
 the number of participants who achieved functional literacy;
 `(G) data on all direct and indirect costs of the program; and
 `(H) information on progress toward meeting the program's goals.
 `(d) COMPLIANCE GRANTS- (1) The Secretary shall make grants to eligible
 entities that elect to establish a program described in subsection (a) for
 the purpose of assisting in carrying out the programs, developing the plans,
 and submitting the reports required by this section.
 `(2) An eligible entity may receive a grant under this subsection if the
 entity--
 `(A) submits an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner,
 and containing such information as the Secretary may require;
 `(B) agrees to provide the Secretary--
 `(i) such data as the Secretary may request concerning the cost and
 feasibility of operating the functional literacy programs authorized by
 subsection (a), including the annual reports required by subsection (c); and
 `(ii) a detailed plan outlining the methods by which the provisions of
 subsections (a) and (b) will be met, including specific goals and timetables.
 `(e) LIFE SKILLS TRAINING GRANTS- (1) The Secretary is authorized to make
 grants to eligible entities to assist them in establishing and operating
 programs designed to reduce recidivism through the development and improvement
 of life skills necessary for reintegration into society.
 `(2) To receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall--
 `(A) submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner,
 and containing such information as the Secretary shall require; and
 `(B) agree to report annually to the Secretary on the participation rate,
 cost, and effectiveness of the program and any other aspect of the program
 on which the Secretary may request information.
 `(3) In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give
 priority to programs that have the greatest potential for innovation,
 effectiveness, and replication in other systems, jails, and detention centers.
 `(4) Grants awarded under this subsection shall be for a period not to
 exceed 3 years, except that the Secretary may establish a procedure for
 renewal of the grants under paragraph (1).
 `(f) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section--
 `(1) the term `eligible entity' means a State correctional agency, a local
 correctional agency, a State correctional education agency, and a local
 correctional education agency;
 `(2) the term `functional literacy' means at least an eighth grade
 equivalence or a functional criterion score on a nationally recognized
 literacy assessment; and
 `(3) the term `life skills' includes self-development, communication skills,
 job and financial skills development, education, interpersonal and family
 relationship development, and stress and anger management.
 `(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 for purposes of carrying out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and
 $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1995.'.
SEC. 314. REAUTHORIZATION OF SCIENCE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS.
 (a) NATIONAL SCIENCE SCHOLARS PROGRAM- Subsection (b) of section 601 of
 the Excellence in Mathematics, Science and Engineering Act of 1990 (20
 U.S.C. 5381(b)) is amended by inserting `, $4,500,000 for fiscal year 1992
 and $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993' after `1991'.
 (b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCE, SPACE, AND TECHNOLOGY- Subsection (o)
 of section 621 of the Excellence in Mathematics, Science and Engineering
 Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 5411(o)) is amended by striking `fiscal year 1991'
 and inserting `each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993'.
SEC. 315. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 Section 343(a)(2)(A) of the Tech-Prep Education Act (20 U.S.C.
 2394a(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking `subject to a default management
 plan required by the Secretary' and inserting `prohibited from receiving
 assistance under part B of the Higher Education Act of 1965 pursuant to
 the provisions of section 435(a)(3) of such Act'.
TITLE IV--IMPACT AID
SEC. 401. ADJUSTMENT FOR CERTAIN DECREASES IN FEDERAL ACTIVITIES.
  Section 3(e) of the Act of September 30, 1950 (Public Law 81-874) (hereafter
  in this title referred to as the `Act') (20 U.S.C. 238(e)) is amended--
 (1) in the matter following subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1), by inserting
 `this subsection and'  before `subsections (a) and (b)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `section' and inserting `subsection'.
SEC. 402. PAYMENT AMOUNTS.
 Section 5 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 240) is amended:
 (1) by amending paragraph (2) of subsection (b) to read as follows:
 `(2) As soon as possible after the beginning of any fiscal year, the Secretary
 shall, on the basis of a written request for a preliminary payment from any
 local educational agency that was eligible for a payment for the preceding
 fiscal year on the basis of an entitlement established under section 2,
 make such a preliminary payment of 50 percent of the amount that such agency
 received for such preceding fiscal year on the basis of such entitlement.';
 and
 (2) by amending subparagraph (D) of subsection (e)(1) to read as follows:
 `(D) For any fiscal year after September 30, 1991, the Secretary is
 authorized to modify the per pupil amount described in subparagraph (A)
 of this paragraph, in any case in which, in the fiscal year for which
 the determination is made, a local educational agency is described under
 a different clause of section 5(c)(2)(A) than such agency was in fiscal
 year 1987.'.
SEC. 403. SPECIAL PAYMENT RULES.
 (a) PAYMENTS TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES- Any local educational agency
 that received a payment for fiscal year 1987, 1988, 1989, or 1990 under
 section 3 of the Act of September 30, 1950 (Impact Aid) (20 U.S.C. 238),
 the amount of which was incorrect because of a failure by the Secretary of
 Education to apply any of the limitations on per pupil payments or local
 contribution rates specified in Public Law 99-500, Public Law 99-591, and
 Public Law 100-202, and which such payment resulted in or would result in
 an overpayment, shall be entitled to the amount of such payment.
 (b) FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS- No portion of any payment received by a local
 educational agency for fiscal year 1988, 1989, or 1990 under section 2 of
 the Act of September 30, 1950 (Impact Aid) (20 U.S.C. 237) may be recovered
 on the ground that such payment was determined incorrectly by employing a
 formula using such agency's base revenue limit per average daily attendance.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.