 
--H.R.543--
H.R.543
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish the Manzanar National Historic Site in the State of California,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--MANZANAR NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
SECTION 101. ESTABLISHMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In order to provide for the protection and interpretation
 of the historical, cultural, and natural resources associated with the
 relocation of Japanese-Americans during World War II, there is hereby
 established the Manzanar National Historic Site in the State of California.
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- The site shall consist of approximately 500 acres of land
 as generally depicted on a map entitled `Map 3--Alternative Plans--Manzanar
 Internment Camp' numbered 80,002 and dated February 1989. Such map shall
 be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices
 of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary
 may from time to time make minor revisions in the site boundaries.
SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in the title, the term--
 (1) `Advisory Commission' means the Manzanar National Historic Site Advisory
 Commission established pursuant to section 105 of this title;
 (2) `city' means the City of Los Angeles;
 (3) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (4) `site' means the Manzanar National Historic Site established pursuant
 to section 101 of this title.
SEC. 103. ACQUISITION OF LAND.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Subject to the limitations set forth in paragraphs
 (2) and (3) of this subsection, the Secretary is authorized to acquire
 lands or interests therein within the boundaries of the site of donation,
 purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or by exchange.
 (2) Lands or interests therein located within the boundaries of the site
 which are owned by the State of California, or a political subdivision
 thereof, may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
 (3) The Secretary shall not acquire lands or interests therein located within
 the boundaries of the site which are owned by the city of Los Angeles until
 such time as the Secretary has entered into an agreement with the city to
 provide water sufficient to fulfill the purposes of the site.
 (b) MAINTENANCE FACILITY- The Secretary is authorized to contribute up
 to $1,100,000 in cash or services for the relocation or construction of a
 maintenance facility for Inyo County, California.
SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATION OF SITE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) The Secretary shall administer the site in accordance
 with this title and with the provisions of law generally applicable to
 units of the National Park System, including the Act entitled `An Act to
 establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved August
 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), and the Act of August 21, 1935
 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-67).
 (2) Nothing in this title shall create, expand, or diminish any authority
 of the Secretary over lands or activities of the City of Los Angeles outside
 the boundaries of the site.
 (b) DONATIONS- The Secretary may accept and expend donations of funds,
 property, or services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public
 entities for the purpose of providing such services and facilities as the
 Secretary deems consistent with the purposes of this title.
 (c) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- Within 3 years after the date funds are made
 available for this subsection, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the
 Advisory Commission, prepare a general management plan for the site. Such
 plan shall be transmitted to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 of the United States House of Representatives.
 (d) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized to enter into
 cooperative agreements with--
 (1) public and private entities for management and interpretive programs
 within the site; and
 (2) the State of California, or a political subdivision thereof, for the
 rendering, on a reimbursable basis, of rescue, fire fighting, and law
 enforcement services and cooperative assistance by nearby law enforcement
 and fire preventive agencies.
 (e) WATER- Except as provided in section 103(a)(3) of this title, nothing
 in this title shall affect the water rights of the city of Los Angeles.
 (f) TRANSPORT OF LIVESTOCK- Any person who holds a permit from the
 Department of Water and Power of the City of Los Angeles to graze livestock
 on city-owned lands contiguous with the site may move such livestock across
 those Federal lands administered by the Bureau of Land Management which
 are located contiguous with the site, for the purpose of transporting such
 livestock from one city-owned parcel to the other.
SEC. 105. ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established an 11-member advisory
 commission to be known as the Manzanar National Historic Site Advisory
 Commission. The members of the Advisory Commission shall be appointed by the
 Secretary, and shall include former internees of the Manzanar relocation camp,
 local residents, representatives of Native American groups, and members of
 the general public.
 (b) TERMS- Members of the Advisory Commission shall serve for a term of
 2 years. Any member of the Advisory Commission appointed for a definitive
 term may serve after the expiration of his or her term, until such time as
 a successor is appointed.
 (c) CHAIRMAN- The members of the Advisory Commission shall designate one
 of the members as Chairman.
 (d) CONSULTATION- The Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, shall from
 time to time, but at least semi-annually, meet and consult with the Advisory
 Commission with respect to the development, management, and interpretation
 of the site, including the preparation of a general management plan as
 required by section  104(c) of this title.
 (e) MEETINGS- The Advisory Commission shall meet on a regular basis. Notice
 of meetings shall be published in local newspapers. Advisory Commission
 meetings shall be held at locations and in such a manner as to ensure
 adequate public involvement.
 (f) EXPENSES- Members of the Advisory Commission shall serve without
 compensation, but while engaged in official business shall be entitiled to
 travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence in the same manner
 as persons employed intermittently in government service under section 5703
 of title 5, United States Code.
 (g) CHARTER- The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory Committee
 Act (86 Stat. 776) are hereby waived with respect to the Advisory Commission.
 (h) TERMINATION- The Advisory Commission shall terminate 10 years after
 the date of enactment of this title.
SEC. 106. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this title.
TITLE II--JAPANESE AMERICAN NATIONAL HISTORIC LANDMARK THEME STUDY
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Japanese American National Historic Landmark
 Theme Study Act'.
SEC. 202. THEME STUDY.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this title
 referred to as the `Secretary') is authorized and directed to prepare and
 transmit to the Congress no later than 2 years after the date funds are
 made available for this title a National Historic Landmark Theme Study
 on Japanese American history (hereinafter in this title referred to as
 the `Theme Study'). The purpose of the Theme Study shall be to identify
 the key sites in Japanese American history that illustrate the period in
 American history when personal justice was denied Japanese Americans. The
 Theme Study shall identify, evaluate, and nominate as national historic
 landmarks those sites, buildings, and structures that best illustrate or
 commemorate the period in American history from 1941 to 1946 when Japanese
 Americans were ordered to be detained, relocated, or excluded pursuant to
 Executive Order Number 9066, and other actions. The study shall include
 (but not be limited to) the following sites:
 (1) Internment and temporary detention camps where Japanese Americans
 were relocated, detained, and excluded pursuant to Executive Order Number
 9066, issued on February 19, 1942. The internment camps include: Tule Lake,
 California; Rohwer, Arkansas; Gila River, Arizona; Poston, Arizona; Granada,
 Colorado; Jerome, Arkansas; Heart Mountain, Wyoming; Minidoka, Idaho; and
 Topaz, Utah. The temporary detention camps include: Pomona, California;
 Santa Anita, California; Fresno, California; Pinedale, California;
 Tanforan in San Bruno, California; Sacramento, California; Marysville,
 California; Mayer, Arizona; Salinas, California; Turlock, California;
 Merced, California; Stockton, California; Tulare, Califor- nia; Puyallup,
 Washington; and Portland, Oregon.
 (2) Angel Island, California, the port of entry for many Japanese Issei.
 (3) Camp Shelby, Mississippi, the training ground for the 442nd Infantry
 Regimental Combat Team.
 (4) Camp Savage and Fort Snelling, Minnesota, locations for the Military
 Intelligence Service Language School where Japanese Americans received
 Japanese language instruction, enabling the Japanese Americans to translate
 Japanese war plans into English.
 (5) Camp McCoy, Wisconsin, where the 100th Infantry Battalion was trained.
 (6) Terminal Island, California, the first location where Japanese Americans
 were forced to evacuate.
 (7) Bainbridge Island, Washington, where Japanese Americans were evacuated
 pursuant to Exclusion Order Number 1.
 (8) Immigration and Naturalization Service internment camps at Crystal City,
 Kennedy, and Seagoville, Texas, Missoula, Montana, and Bismarck, North Dakota.
 (b) IDENTIFICATION AND LIST- On the basis of the Theme Study, the Secretary
 shall identify possible new national historic landmarks appropriate to
 this theme and prepare a list in order of importance or merit of the most
 appropriate sites for national historic landmark designation.
SEC. 203. CONSULTATION.
 In carrying out the study, the Secretary shall consult with Japanese
 American citizens groups, scholars of Japanese American history, and historic
 preservationists. In preparing the study, if the Secretary determines that
 it is necessary to have access to Indian lands, the Secretary shall request
 permission from the appropriate tribe.
SEC. 204. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with one or more Japanese
 American citizens organizations knowledgeable of Japanese American history,
 especially the relocation and internment period during World War II,
 to prepare the Theme Study and ensure that the Theme Study meets current
 scholarly standards.
SEC. 205. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary
 to carry out this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.