 
--H.R.1143--
H.R.1143
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize a study of nationally significant places in American labor
history.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. THEME STUDY.
 (a) The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Secretary') shall prepare and transmit to the Congress a National Historic
 Landmark Theme Study on American Labor History (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Theme Study'). The Theme Study shall be prepared in
 consultation with the Secretary of Labor and pursuant to the guidelines
 prepared under section 2. The purpose of the Theme Study shall be to
 identify the key sites in American labor history, including the history of
 workers and their work, of organizing, unions and strikes, of the impacts of
 industrial and technological change, and of the contributions of American
 labor to American history. The Theme Study shall identify, evaluate, and
 nominate as national historic landmarks those districts, sites, buildings,
 and structures that best illustrate or commemorate American labor history in
 its fullest variety. On the basis of the Theme Study, the Secretary shall
 identify possible new park units appropriate to this theme and prepare a
 list in order of importance or merit of the most appropriate sites. The list
 shall include a discussion of the feasibility and suitability of such sites.
 (b) The theme study shall be completed not later than 3 years after the
 date funds are made available for such study.
SEC. 2. CONSULTATION.
 The Secretary shall consult with workers, workers' representatives, scholars
 of labor history, and historic preservationists for technical assistance
 and for the preparation of guidelines for the Theme Study.
SEC. 3. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 The Secretary shall enter into cooperative agreements with one or more major
 scholarly and public historic organizations knowledgeable of American labor
 history to prepare the Theme Study and ensure that the Theme Study meets
 scholarly standards.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is hereby authorized to be appropriated $250,000 to carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.