 
--H.R.904--
H.R.904
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to prepare a national historic
landmark theme
study on African American history.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `African American History Landmark Theme
 Study Act'.
SEC. 2. THEME STUDY.
 (a) The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Secretary') shall prepare and transmit to the Congress a national historic
 landmark theme study on African American history (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `theme study').
 (b) The purpose of the theme study shall be to identify the key sites in the
 history and experience of those Americans who trace their origins to Africa
 so that all Americans will gain better understanding of American history.
 (c) In the theme study, the Secretary shall identify, evaluate, and nominate
 as national historic landmarks the districts, sites, buildings, and structures
 and landscapes that illustrate or commemorate African American history.
 (d) On the basis of the theme study, the Secretary shall--
 (1) identify possible new park units appropriate to the theme of African
 American history; and
 (2) prepare a list of the most appropriate sites, including a discussion
 of the feasibility and suitability of their inclusion in the National
 Park System.
 (e) The theme study shall be completed not later than 3 years after the
 date funds are made available for such study.
SEC. 3. CONSULTATION.
 The Secretary shall prepare the theme study in consultation with scholars
 of African American history and historic preservationists.
SEC. 4. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT.
 (a) The Secretary shall enter into a cooperative agreement with one or more
 scholarly and public historic organizations to--
 (1) prepare the theme study; and
 (2) ensure that the theme study is prepared in accordance with generally
 accepted scholarly standards.
 (b) The scholarly and public historic organization or organizations described
 in subsection (a) shall be--
 (1) knowledgeable of African American history; and
 (2) recognized in the scholarly community as adhering to generally accepted
 scholarly standards.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated $500,000 to carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.