 
--H.R.3604--
H.R.3604
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To direct acquisitions within the Eleven Point Wild and Scenic River, to
establish the
Greer Spring Special Management Area in Missouri, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Greer Spring Acquisition and Protection Act
 of 1991'.
SEC. 2. ACQUISITION OF THE DENNIG TRACT.
 (a) The Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter referred to as the `Secretary')
 is hereby authorized and directed, subject to appropriations, to acquire
 all of the lands, waters, and interests therein, on a willing seller basis
 only, within the area generally depicted on a map entitled `Dennig Tract',
 dated November 5, 1991 (hereinafter referred to as `the map'). The map,
 together with a legal description of such lands, shall be on file and
 available for public inspection in the offices of the Forest Service,
 Department of Agriculture. The boundaries of the Mark Twain National Forest
 are hereby modified to include the area denoted `Dennig Property Outside
 of National Forest Boundary' on the map. Such map and legal description
 shall have the same force and effect as if included in this Act, except
 that the correction of clerical and typographical errors in such map and
 legal description may be made by the Secretary.
 (b) Such modified boundaries shall be considered as the boundaries in
 existence as of January 1, 1965, for the purposes of section 7 of the Land
 and Water Conservation Fund Act (16 U.S.C. 4601-9).
SEC. 3. ELEVEN POINT WILD AND SCENIC RIVER.
 The Secretary shall manage the lands, waters, and interests therein within the
 area referred to on the map as `The Eleven Point Wild and Scenic Corridor'
 (hereinafter referred to as `the corridor'), pursuant to the provisions
 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271-1287). Lands acquired
 pursuant to section 2 of this Act within the corridor shall not be counted
 against the average one-hundred-acre-per-mile fee limitation of Section
 6(a)(1) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, nor shall such lands outside
 the corridor be subject to the provisions of Section 6(a)(2) of the Wild
 and Scenic Rivers Act.
SEC. 4. GREER SPRING SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.
 (a) OBJECTIVES AND ESTABLISHMENTS- In order to provide for public outdoor
 recreation use, including fishing and hunting, in a natural setting, and
 the enjoyment of certain areas within the Mark Twain National Forest, to
 protect those areas' natural, archaeological, and scenic resources, and
 to provide for appropriate resource management of those areas, there is
 hereby established the Greer Spring Special Management Area (hereinafter
 referred to as `the special management area'). The Secretary shall manage
 the special management area in accordance with this Act, and with provisions
 of law generally applicable to units of the National Forest System to the
 extent consistent with this Act.
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- The special management area shall consist of lands,
 waters, and interests therein within the area referred to on the map as
 `The Greer Spring Special Management Area'. The Secretary is authorized to
 make minor revisions to the boundary of the special management area.
 (c) TIMBER HARVESTING- The Secretary shall permit the harvesting of timber
 within the special management area only in those cases where, in the judgment
 of the Secretary, the harvesting of timber is required in order to control
 insects or disease, for public safety, for salvage sales, or to accomplish
 the objectives of the special management area as described in subsection
 (a). To the extent practicable, timber harvesting shall be conducted only
 by the individual tree selection method.
 (d) HUNTING AND FISHING- The Secretary shall permit hunting and fishing
 on lands and waters within the special management area in accordance with
 applicable Federal and State law.
 (e) MINING AND MINERAL LEASING- Subject to valid, existing rights, lands
 within the special management areas are withdrawn from location, entry, and
 patent under the mining laws of the United States, and from the operation
 of the mineral and geothermal leasing laws of the United States.
 (f) VEHICULAR ACCESS- The Secretary shall construct and maintain only those
 roads within the special management area and corridor which are indicated on
 the map: Provided, That the Secretary shall provide access to such roads,
 or to timber harvesting pursuant to subsection (c), in such a manner as to
 minimize environmental impact.
SEC. 5. APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.