 
--H.R.4111--
H.R.4111
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Small Business Act and related Acts to provide loan assistance
to small business concerns, to extend certain demonstration programs relating
to small business participation in Federal procurement, to modify certain
Small Business Administration programs, to assist small firms to adjust to
reductions in Defense-related business, to improve the management of certain
program activities of the Small Business Administration, to provide for the
undertaking of certain studies, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Small Business Credit and
 Business Opportunity Enhancement Act of 1992'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act shall be as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--IMPROVED ACCESS TO CREDIT
Subtitle A--Section 7(a) Guaranteed Loan Program
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Buy American preference.
Sec. 104. State limitations on interest rates.
Subtitle B--Microloan Demonstration Program Amendments
Sec. 111. Short title.
Sec. 112. Findings.
Sec. 113. Microloan demonstration program amendments.
Sec. 114. Regulations.
Sec. 115. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE SMALL BUSINESS ACT AND RELATED ACTS
Subtitle A--Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program
Sec. 201. Extension of demonstration programs.
Sec. 202. Management improvements to the small business competitiveness
demonstration program.
Sec. 203. Amendments to the dredging demonstration program.
Subtitle B--Defense Economic Transition Assistance
Sec. 211. Section 7(a) loan program.
Sec. 212. Small business development center program.
Subtitle C--Small Business Administration Management
Sec. 221. Disadvantaged small business status decisions.
Sec. 222. Establishment of size standards.
Sec. 223. Management of Small Business Development Center Program.
Sec. 224. National Seminar on Small Business Exports.
Sec. 225. Co-sponsored training.
Sec. 226. Viability of secondary markets.
Subtitle D--Technical Amendments and Repealers
Sec. 231. Commission on minority business development.
TITLE III--STUDIES AND RESOLUTIONS
Subtitle A--Access to Surety Bonding
Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Survey.
Sec. 303. Report.
Sec. 304. Definitions.
Subtitle B--Small Business Loan Secondary Market Study
Sec. 311. Secondary market for loans to small businesses.
Subtitle C--Contract Bundling Study
Sec. 321. Contract bundling study.
Subtitle D--Resolution Regarding Small Business Access to Capital
Sec. 331. Sense of the Congress.
TITLE IV--SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT ACT AMENDMENTS
Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Leverage (matching funds) formula.
Sec. 403. Participating securities.
Sec. 404. Pooling.
Sec. 405. Authorizations.
Sec. 406. Safety and soundness.
Sec. 407. Examinations.
Sec. 408. Non-financed SBICs.
Sec. 409. Minimum capital.
Sec. 410. Definitions.
Sec. 411. Interest rate ceiling.
Sec. 412. Preferred partnership interests.
Sec. 413. Indirect funds from State or local governments.
Sec. 414. SBIC approvals.
Sec. 415. Implementation.
Sec. 416. Buy America.
Sec. 417. Studies and reports.
Sec. 418. No effect on securities laws.
TITLE I--IMPROVED ACCESS TO CREDIT
Subtitle A--Section 7(a) Guaranteed Loan Program
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `Small Business Credit Crunch Relief Act
 of 1992'.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4) Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the amount
 of deferred participation loans authorized in this section--
 `(A) shall mean the net amount of the loan principal guaranteed by the
 Small Business Administration (and does not include any amount which is
 not guaranteed); and
 `(B) shall be available for a national program, except that the Administration
 may use not more than an amount equal to 10 percent of the amount authorized
 each year for any special or pilot program directed to identified sectors
 of the small business community or to specific geographic regions of the
 United States.';
 (2) by amending subsection (e)(2) to read as follows:
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Admin-istration is
 authorized to make $5,978,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other
 financing. Of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make--
 `(A) $5,200,000,000 in general business loans, as provided in section 7(a);
 `(B) $53,000,000 in loans, as provided in section 7(a)(12)(B); and
 `(C) $725,000,000 in financings, as provided in section 7(a)(13) and section
 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.';
 (3) amending subsection (g)(2) to read as follows:
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Administration is
 authorized to make $7,030,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other
 financings. Of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make--
 `(A) $6,200,000,000 in general business loans as provided in section 7(a);
 `(B) $55,000,000 in loans, as provided in section 7(a)(12)(B); and
 `(C) $775,000,000 in financings, as provided in section 7(a)(13) and section
 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.'; and
 (4) by amending subsection (i)(2) to read as follows:
 `(2) For the programs authorized by this Act, the Admin-istration is
 authorized to make $8,083,000,000 in deferred participation loans and other
 financings. Of such sum, the Administration is authorized to make--
 `(A) $7,200,000,000 in general business loans, as provided in section 7(a);
 `(B) $58,000,000 in loans, as provided in section 7(a)(12)(B); and
 `(C) $825,000,000 in financings, as provided in section 7(a)(13) and section
 504 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.'.
SEC. 103. BUY AMERICAN PREFERENCE.
 In providing financial assistance with amounts appropriated pursuant to
 the amendments made by this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business
 Administration shall, when practicable, accord preference to small business
 concerns which use or purchase equipment and supplies produced in the United
 States. The Administrator shall also encourage small business concerns
 receiving such assistance to purchase such equipment and supplies.
SEC. 104. STATE LIMITATIONS ON INTEREST RATES.
 Section 7(a)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(4)) is amended by
 striking `The rate of interest on financings made on a deferred basis shall
 be legal and reasonable but' and inserting the following: `Notwithstanding
 the provisions of the constitution of any State or the laws of any State
 limiting the rate or amount of interest which may be charged, taken,
 received, or reserved, the maximum legal rate of interest on any financing
 made on a deferred basis pursuant to this subsection'.
Subtitle B--Microloan Demonstration Program Amendments
SEC. 111. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `Microlending Expansion Act of 1992'.
SEC. 112. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) nationwide, there are many individuals who possess skills that, with
 certain short-term assistance, could enable them to become successfully
 self-employed;
 (2) many talented and skilled individuals who are employed in low-wage
 occupations could, with sufficient opportunity, start their own small business
 concerns, which could provide them with an improved standard of living;
 (3) most such individuals have little or no savings, a nonexistent or poor
 credit history, and no access to credit or capital with which to start a
 business venture;
 (4) women, minorities, and individuals residing in areas of high unemployment
 and high levels of poverty have particular difficulty obtaining access to
 credit or capital;
 (5) providing such individuals with small-scale, short-term financial
 assistance in the form of microloans, together with intensive marketing,
 management, and technical assistance, could enable them to start or maintain
 small businesses, to become self-sufficient, and to raise their standard
 of living;
 (6) banking institutions are reluctant to provide such assistance because
 of the administrative costs associated with processing and servicing the
 loans and because they lack experience in providing the type of marketing,
 management, and technical assistance needed by such borrowers;
 (7) many organizations that have had successful experiences in providing
 microloans and marketing, management, and technical assistance to such
 borrowers exist throughout the Nation; and
 (8) loans from the Federal Government to intermediaries for the purpose
 of relending to start-up, newly established and growing small business
 concerns are an important catalyst to attract private sector participation
 in microlending.
SEC. 113. MICROLOAN DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM AMENDMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 7(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
 (A) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
 `(i) to assist women, low-income, and minority entrepreneurs and business
 owners and other such individuals possessing the capability to operate
 successful business concerns; and
 (B) in clause (iii)(I), by inserting `, particularly loans in amounts
 averaging not more than $7,500,' after `small-scale loans';
 (2) in paragraph (3)(A)--
 (A) by striking `As part of' and inserting the following:
 `(i) IN GENERAL- As part of';
 (B) by redesignating clauses (i) through (viii) as subclauses (I) through
 (VIII), respectively;
 (C) in subclause (III), as redesignated, by striking `economic and
 unemployment' and inserting `economic, poverty, and unemployment';
 (D) by amending subclause (VIII), as redesignated, to read as follows:
 `(VIII) any plan to involve other technical assistance providers (such as
 counselors from the Service Corps of Retired Executives or small business
 development centers) or private sector lenders in assisting selected business
 concerns.'; and
 (E) by adding at the end the following:
 `(ii) SELECTION OF INTERMEDIARIES- In selecting intermediaries to participate
 in the program established under this subsection, the Administration shall
 give priority to those applicants that provide loans in amounts averaging
 not more than $7,500.';
 (3) by amending paragraph (3)(F) to read as follows:
 `(F) LOAN DURATION; INTEREST RATES-
 `(i) LOAN DURATION- Loans made by the Administration under this subsection
 shall be for a term of 10 years.
 `(ii) APPLICABLE INTEREST RATES- Except as provided in clause (iii), loans
 made by the Administration under this subsection to an intermediary shall bear
 an interest rate equal to 1.25 percentage points below the rate determined
 by the Secretary of the Treasury for obligations of the United States with
 a period of maturity of 5 years, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of
 1 percent.
 `(iii) RATES APPLICABLE TO CERTAIN SMALL LOANS- Loans made by the
 Administration to an intermediary that makes loans to small business concerns
 and entrepreneurs averaging not more than $7,500, shall bear an interest rate
 that is 2 percentage points below the rate determined by the Secretary of
 the Treasury for obligations of the United States with a period of maturity
 of 5 years, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of 1 percent.
 `(iv) RATES APPLICABLE TO MULTIPLE SITES OR OFFICES- The interest rate
 prescribed in clause (ii) or (iii) shall apply to each separate loan-making
 site or office of 1 intermediary only if such site or office meets the
 requirements of that clause.
 `(v) RATE BASIS- The applicable rate of interest under this paragraph shall--
 `(I) be applied retroactively for the first year of an intermediary's
 participation in the program, based upon the actual lending practices of
 the intermediary as determined by the Administration prior to the end of
 such year; and
 `(II) be based in the second and subsequent years of an intermediary's
 participation in the program, upon the actual lending practices of the
 intermediary during the term of the intermediary's participation in the
 program.
 `(vii) COVERED INTERMEDIARIES- The interest rates prescribed in this
 subparagraph shall apply to all loans made to intermediaries under this
 subsection on or after October 28, 1991.';
 (4) in paragraph (4)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `Subject to' and inserting `Except as
 otherwise provided in subparagraph (C) and subject to'; and
 (B) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting in lieu thereof:
 `(A) GRANT AMOUNTS- Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (C) and
 subject to subparagraph (B), each intermediary that receives a loan under
 subparagraph (B)(i) of paragraph (1) shall be eligible to receive a grant to
 provide marketing, management, and technical assistance to small business
 concerns that are borrowers under this subsection. Except as provided in
 subparagraph (C), each intermediary meeting the requirements of subparagraph
 (B) may receive a grant of not more than 25 percent of the total outstanding
 balance of loans made to it under this subsection.';
 (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking `an amount equal to one-half of the
 amount of the grant' and inserting in lieu thereof `an amount equal to 25
 percent of the amount of the grant';
 (D) by adding at the end the following:
 `(C) Additional technical assistance grants for making certain loans-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- Each intermediary that has a portfolio of loans made under
 this subsection that averages not more than $7,500 during the period of the
 intermediary's participation in the program shall be eligible to receive a
 grant equal to 5 percent of the total outstanding balance of loans made to
 the intermediary under this subsection, in addition to grants made under
 subparagraph (A).
 `(ii) PURPOSES- A grant awarded under clause (i) may be used to provide
 marketing, management, and technical assistance to small business concerns
 that are borrowers under this subsection.
 `(iii) CONTRIBUTION EXCEPTION- The contribution requirements in subparagraph
 (B) do not apply to grants made under this subparagraph.
 `(D) ELIGIBILITY FOR MULTIPLE SITES OR OFFICES- The eligibility for a grant
 described in subparagraph (A) or (C) shall be determined separately for
 each loan-making site or office of 1 intermediary.';
 (5) in paragraph (5)(A), by striking `2 grants' and inserting `6 grants';
 (6) in paragraph (6), by amending subparagraph (C) to read as follows:
 `(C) INTEREST LIMIT- Notwithstanding any provision of the laws of any
 State or the constitution of any State pertaining to the rate or amount
 of interest that may be charged, taken, received, or reserved on a loan,
 the maximum rate of interest to be charged on a microloan funded under this
 subsection shall not exceed the rate of interest applicable to a loan made
 to an intermediary by the Administration--
 `(i) in the case of a loan of more than $7,500 made by the intermediary
 to a small business concern or entrepreneur by more than 7.75 percentage
 points; and
 `(ii) in the case of a loan of not more than $7,500 made by the intermediary
 to a small business concern or entrepreneur by more than 8.5 percentage
 points.';
 (7) in paragraph (7)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `35 microloan programs' and inserting
 `60 microloan programs';
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `25 additional' and inserting `50
 additional';
 (C) by amending subparagraph (C)(i) to read as follows:
 `(i) be awarded more than 4 microloan programs in the first 2 years of
 the demonstration program nor more than 2 microloan programs in any year
 thereafter;';
 (D) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking `$1,000,000' and inserting
 `$1,500,000'; and
 (E) in subparagraph (C)(iii), by striking `$1,500,000' and inserting
 `$2,500,000';
 (8) by redesignating paragraphs (9) and (10) as paragraphs (10) and (11),
 respectively;
 (9) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:
 `(9) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR INTERMEDIARIES-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Administration may procure technical assistance for
 intermediaries participating in the Microloan Demonstration Program to ensure
 that such intermediaries have the knowledge, skills, and understanding of
 microlending practices necessary to operate successful microloan programs.
 `(B) ASSISTANCE AMOUNT- The Administration shall transfer 3 percent of its
 annual appropriation for loans under this subsection to the Administration's
 Salaries and Expense Account for the specific purpose of providing 1 or
 more technical assistance grants to experienced microlending organizations
 to achieve the purpose set forth in subparagraph (A).'; and
 (10) in paragraph (11), as redesignated--
 (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:
 `(A) the term `intermediary' means--
 `(i) a private, nonprofit entity;
 `(ii) a nonprofit community development corporation;
 `(iii) a consortium of private, nonprofit organizations or nonprofit
 community development corporations; or
 `(iv) a quasi-governmental economic development entity (such as a planning
 and development district), other than a State, county, municipal government,
 or any agency thereof, if--
 `(I) no application is received from an eligible nonprofit organization; or
 `(II) the Administration determines that the needs of a region or geographic
 area are not adequately served by an existing, eligible nonprofit organization
 that has submitted an application,
that seeks to borrow or has borrowed funds from the Administration to make
microloans to small business concerns under this subsection;'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATES- The amendments made by paragraphs (4) and (5) of
 subsection (a) shall become effective on October 1, 1992.
SEC. 114. REGULATIONS.
 Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Small
 Business Administration shall promulgate interim final regulations to
 implement the amendments made by this subtitle.
SEC. 115. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15
 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(k) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- To carry out the program established
 under section 7(m), there are authorized to be appropriated to the Small
 Business Administration--
 `(1) for fiscal year 1992--
 `(A) $45,000,000, to be used for the provision of loans; and
 `(B) $10,000,000, to be used for the provision of grants;
 `(2) for fiscal year 1993--
 `(A) $80,000,000, to be used for the provision of loans; and
 `(B) $25,000,000, to be used for the provision of grants; and
 `(3) for fiscal year 1994--
 `(A) $60,000,000, to be used for the provision of loans; and
 `(B) $35,000,000, to be used for the provision of grants.'.
 (b) REPEAL OF EXISTING PROVISION- Section 609 of Public Law 102-140 (105
 Stat. 831) is amended by striking subsection (l).
TITLE II--AMENDMENTS TO THE SMALL BUSINESS ACT AND RELATED ACTS
Subtitle A--Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program
SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS.
 (a) SMALL BUSINESS COMPETITIVENESS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM- Section 711(c)
 of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3889) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) PROGRAM TERM- The Program shall commence on January 1, 1989, and
 terminate on September 30, 1996.'.
 (b) ALTERNATIVE PROGRAM FOR CLOTHING AND TEXTILES- Section 721(c) of
 the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15
 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3895) is amended by striking `September 30,
 1992' and inserting `September 30, 1996'.
 (c) EXPANDING SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION IN DREDGING- Section 722(a)
 of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 644 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking `During fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, and 1992, the'
 and inserting `The'; and
 (2) by inserting before the period at the end `, commencing on October 1,
 1989 and terminating on September 30, 1996'.
SEC. 202. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS TO THE SMALL BUSINESS COMPETITIVENESS
DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 (a) IMPLEMENTATION ON A FISCAL YEAR BASIS- Section 712(d) of the Small
 Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644
 note, 102  Stat. 3890)  is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `4 quarters' in the third sentence and
 inserting `4 fiscal year quarters'; and
 (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting `fiscal year' before `quarter'.
 (b) TARGETED APPLICATION OF REMEDIAL MEASURES- Section 713(b) of the Small
 Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644
 note, 102 Stat. 3892) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence, by striking `to the extent necessary for such
 agency to attain its goal' and inserting `only at those buying activities
 of the participating agency that failed to attain the small business
 participation goal required by section 712(a)';
 (2) by striking the third sentence; and
 (3) by inserting after the first sentence, the following new sentence: `Upon
 determining that its contract awards to small business concerns again meet
 the goals required by section 712(a), a participating agency shall promptly
 resume the use of unrestricted solicitations pursuant to subsection (a).'.
 (c) RELATIONSHIP TO RELATED LAW- Section 713 of the Small Business
 Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102
 Stat. 3892), as amended by subsection (b), is further amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection:
 `(d) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER APPLICABLE LAW- Solicitations for the award of
 contracts for architectural and engineering services (including surveying
 and mapping) issued by a Military Department or a Defense agency shall
 comply with the requirements of subsections (a) and (b) of section 2855 of
 title 10, United States Code.'.
 (d) SUBCONTRACTING ACTIVITY- Section 714 of the Small Business Competitiveness
 Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3892)
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) SUBCONTRACTING ACTIVITY-
 `(1) SIMPLIFIED DATA COLLECTION SYSTEM- The Administrator for Federal
 Procurement Policy shall develop and implement a simplified system to
 collect data on the participation of small business concerns (including
 small business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically
 disadvantaged individuals) as other than prime contractors.
 `(2) PARTICIPATING INDUSTRIES- The system established under paragraph (1)
 shall be used to collect data regarding contracts for architectural and
 engineering services (including surveying and mapping).  The Administrator
 for Federal Procurement Policy may expand such system to collect data
 regarding such other designated industry groups as deemed appropriate.
 `(3) PARTICIPATING AGENCIES- As part of the system established under paragraph
 (1) data shall be collected from--
 `(A) the Environmental Protection Agency;
 `(B) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
 `(C) the United States Army Corps of Engineers (Civil Works); and
 `(D) the Department of Energy.
The Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy may require the participation
of additional departments or agencies from the list of participating agencies
designated in section 718.
 `(4) DETERMINING SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION RATES- The value of other than
 prime contract awards to small business concerns furnishing architectural and
 engineering services (including surveying and mapping) (or other services
 provided by small business concerns in other designated industry groups
 as may be designated for participation by the Administrator for Federal
 Procurement) shall be counted towards determining whether the small business
 participation goal required by section 712(a) has been attained.
 `(5) DURATION- The system described in subsection (a) shall be established
 not later than October 1, 1992 (or as soon as practicable thereafter on the
 first day of a subsequent quarter of fiscal year 1993), and shall terminate
 on September 30, 1996.'.
 (e) STATUS OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS- Section 714(c) of the Small Business
 Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note,
 102 Stat. 3892) (as redesignated by subsection (d)) is amended--
 (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting `AND STATUS' after `SIZE';
 (2) by inserting `and the status of the small business concern (as a
 small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically
 disadvantaged individuals)' after `size of the small business concern'.
 (f) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Section 716 of the Small Business Competitiveness
 Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3893)
 is amended--
 (1) in the section heading, by striking `report' and inserting `reports';
 (2) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking `fiscal year 1991
 data is' and inserting `data for fiscal year 1991 and 1995 are'; and
 (3) in subsection (c), by striking `report' and inserting `report to be
 submitted during calendar year 1996'.
 (g) IMPROVING ACCURACY OF DATA PERTAINING TO A-E SERVICES- Section 717(d)
 of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3894) is amended by inserting before the
 period at the end the following: `, and such contract was awarded under the
 qualification-based selection procedures required by title IX of the Federal
 Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 541 et seq.)'.
 (h) PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES- Restricted competitions pursuant to section
 713(b) of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act
 of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3892) shall not be imposed with
 respect to the designated industry group of architectural and engineering
 services if the rate of small business participation exceeds 35 percent,
 until the improvements to the collection of data regarding prime contract
 awards (as required by subsection (g)) and the system for collecting data
 regarding other than prime contract awards (as required by subsection
 (d)) have been implemented, as determined by the Administrator for Federal
 Procurement Policy.
 (i) TEST PLAN AND POLICY DIRECTION- The Administrator for Federal Procurement
 Policy shall issue appropriate modifications to the test plan and policy
 direction issued pursuant to section 715 of the Small Business Competitiveness
 Demonstration Program Act of 1988, to conform to the amendments made by
 this section and section 201(a).
SEC. 203. AMENDMENTS TO THE DREDGING DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
 (a) MODIFICATION OF THE SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION GOALS- The first
 sentence of section 722(b) of the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration
 Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3895) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(5) not less than 20 percent during fiscal year 1993, and each subsequent
 year during the term of the program, including not less than 5 percent of
 the dollar value of suitable contracts that shall be reserved for emerging
 small business concerns.'.
 (b) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN CONTRACTS- Section 722(b) of the Small Business
 Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note,
 102 Stat. 3896) is further amended--
 (1) by striking `total dollar value of contracts' and inserting `aggregate
 value of all suitable contracts'; and
 (2) by striking the last sentence and inserting the following: `The
 total value of contracts to be performed exclusively through the use
 of so-called dustpan dredges or seagoing hopper dredges is deemed to be
 generally unsuitable for performance by small business concerns and is to
 be excluded in calculating whether the rates of small business participation
 specified in subsection (b) have been attained.'.
 (c) QUALIFIED SMALL BUSINESS COMPETITORS- Section 722(c) of the Small
 Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644
 note, 102 Stat. 3896) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) Prior to making a determination to restrict a solicitation for the
 performance of a dredging contract for exclusive competition among 2 or
 more eligible small business concerns in accordance with section 19.5 of
 the Governmentwide Federal Procurement Regulation (48 C.F.R. 19.5, or any
 successor thereto), the contracting officer shall make a determination that
 each anticipated offeror is a responsible source (as defined under section
 4(7) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(7)) and
 has (or can demonstrate the capability to obtain) the specialized dredging
 equipment deemed necessary to perform the work to be required in accordance
 with the schedule to be specified in the solicitation.'.
 (d) CONTRACT AWARD PROCEDURES- Section 722(c) of the Small Business
 Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note,
 102 Stat. 3896) is further amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by striking `in paragraphs (2)
 and (3)' and inserting `in paragraphs (3) and (4)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by subsection (c)), by striking
 `attaining' and inserting `exceeding'.
 (e) REPORTS- Section 722(f) of the Small Business Competitiveness
 Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644 note, 102 Stat. 3896)
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `September 30, 1992' and inserting
 `September 30, 1995'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `of the fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991'
 and inserting `fiscal year during the term of the program established under
 subsection (a)'.
Subtitle B--Defense Economic Transition Assistance
SEC. 211. SECTION 7(a) LOAN PROGRAM.
 Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) is amended by
 adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(21)(A) The Administration may make loans under the authority of this
 subsection--
 `(i) to a small business concern that has been (or can reasonably be expected
 to be) detrimentally affected by--
 `(I) the closure (or substantial reduction) of a Department of Defense
 installation; or
 `(II) the termination (or substantial reduction) of a Department of Defense
 program on which such small business was a prime contractor or subcontractor
 (or supplier) at any tier; or
 `(ii) to a qualified individual seeking to establish (or acquire) and
 operate a small business concern.
 `(B) Recognizing that greater risk may be associated with a loan to a
 small business concern described in subparagraph (A)(i), any reasonable
 doubts concerning the firm's proposed business plan for transition to
 nondefense-related markets shall be resolved in favor of the loan applicant
 when making any determination regarding the sound value of the proposed
 loan in accordance with paragraph (6).
 `(C) Loans pursuant to this paragraph shall be authorized in such amounts
 as provided in advance in appropriation Acts for the purposes of loans
 under this paragraph.
 `(D) For purposes of this paragraph a qualified individual is--
 `(i) a member of the Armed Forces of the United States, honorably discharged
 from active duty involuntarily or pursuant to a program providing bonuses
 or other inducements to encourage voluntary separation or early retirement;
 `(ii) a civilian employee of the Department of Defense involuntarily
 separated from Federal service or retired pursuant to a program offering
 inducements to encourage early retirement; or
 `(iii) an employee of a prime contractor, subcontractor, or supplier at any
 tier of a Department of Defense program whose employment is involuntarily
 terminated (or voluntarily terminated pursuant to a program offering
 inducements to encourage voluntary separation or early retirement) due to the
 termination (or substantial reduction) of a Department of Defense program.'.
SEC. 212. SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER PROGRAM.
 Section 21(c)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(3)) is amended--
 (1) by striking subparagraph (D);
 (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G) as subparagraphs (D),
 (E), and (F), respectively; and
 (3) by inserting before subparagraph (H) the following new subparagraph:
 `(G) assisting small businesses to develop and implement strategic
 business plans to timely and effectively respond to the planned closure
 (or reduction) of a Department of Defense facility within the community,
 or actual or projected reductions in such firms' business base due to the
 actual or projected termination (or reduction) of a Department of Defense
 program or a contract in support of such program--
 `(i) by developing broad economic assessments of the adverse impacts of--
 `(I) the closure (or reduction) of the Department of Defense facility on
 the small business concerns providing goods or services to such facility
 or to the military and civilian personnel currently stationed or working
 at such facility; and
 `(II) the termination (or reduction) of a Department of Defense program (or
 contracts under such program) on the small business concerns participating
 in such program as a prime contractor, subcontractor or supplier at any tier;
 `(ii) by developing, in conjunction with appropriate Federal, State,
 and local governmental entities and other private sector organizations,
 the parameters of a transition adjustment program adaptable to the needs
 of individual small business concerns;
 `(iii) by conducting appropriate programs to inform the affected small
 business community regarding the anticipated adverse impacts identified under
 clause (i) and the economic adjustment assistance available to such firms; and
 `(iv) by assisting small business concerns to develop and implement an
 individualized transition business plan.'.
Subtitle C--Small Business Administration Management
SEC. 221. DISADVANTAGED SMALL BUSINESS STATUS DECISIONS.
 (a) PUBLICATION OF DECISIONS- A decision issued pursuant to section
 7(j)(11)(F)(vii) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(11)(F)(vii))
 shall--
 (1) be made available to the protestor, the protested party, the contracting
 officer (if not the protestor), and all other parties to the proceeding,
 and published in full text; and
 (2) include findings of fact and conclusions of law, with specific reasons
 supporting such findings or conclusions, upon each material issue of fact
 and law of decisional significance regarding the disposition of the protest.
 (b) PRECEDENTIAL VALUE OF PRIOR DECISIONS- A decision issued under section
 7(j)(11)(F)(vii) of the Small Business Act that is issued prior to the date
 of enactment of this Act shall not have value as precedent in deciding any
 subsequent protest until such time as the decision is published in full text.
SEC. 222. ESTABLISHMENT OF SIZE STANDARDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a))
 is amended by striking `In addition' and all that follows through the end
 period and by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) In addition to the criteria specified in paragraph (1), the Administrator
 may specify detailed definitions or standards (by number of employees or
 dollar volume of business) by which a business concern is to be recognized
 as a small business concern for the purposes of this Act or any other Act.
 Unless specifically authorized by statute, the Secretary of a department
 or the head of a Federal agency may not prescribe for the use of such
 department or agency a size standard for categorizing a business concern
 as a small business concern, unless such proposed size standard--
 `(A) is being proposed after an opportunity for public notice and comment;
 `(B) provides for determining, over a period of not less than 3 years--
 `(i) the size of a manufacturing concern on the basis of the number of its
 employees during that period; and
 `(ii) the size of a concern providing services on basis of the average
 gross receipts of the concern during that period; and
 `(C) is approved by the Administrator.
 `(3) When establishing or approving any size standard pursuant to paragraph
 (2), the Administrator shall ensure that the size standard varies from
 industry to industry to the extent necessary to reflect the differing
 characteristics of the various industries and consider other factors deemed
 to be relevant by the Administrator.'.
 (b) REGULATIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall issue
 proposed regulations to implement the amendments made by subsection (a).
 Final regulations shall be issued not later than 270 days after such date
 of enactment.
 (2) LISTING OF ADDITIONAL SIZE STANDARDS- The regulations required by
 paragraph (1) shall include a listing of all small business size standards
 prescribed by statute or by individual Federal departments and agencies,
 identifying the programs or purposes to which such size standards apply.
SEC. 223. MANAGEMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER PROGRAM.
 (a) Section 21(a)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) is amended
 by adding the following at the end thereof:
 `(A) Small business development centers are authorized to form an association
 to pursue matters of common concern. If more than a majority of the small
 business development centers which are operating pursuant to agreements with
 the Administration are members of such an association, the Administration
 is authorized and directed to recognize the existence and activities
 of such an association and to consult with it and develop documents (i)
 announcing the annual scope of activities pursuant to this section, (ii)
 requesting proposals to deliver assistance as provided in this section and
 (iii) governing the general operations and administration of the Small
 Business Development Center Program, specifically including the development
 of regulations and a uniform negotiated cooperative agreement for use on
 an annual basis when entering into individual negotiated agreements with
 small business development centers.
 `(B) Provisions governing audits, cost principles and administrative
 requirements for Federal grants, contracts and cooperative agreements which
 are included in uniform requirements of Office of Management and Budget
 (OMB) Circulars shall be incorporated by reference and shall not be set
 forth in summary or other form in regulations.'.
 (b) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall submit to
 the Committees on Small Business and the Committees on Appropriations of
 the Senate and the House of Representatives, proposed regulations for the
 Small Business Development Center Program authorized by section 21 of the
 Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648). Such proposed regulations shall not be
 published in the Federal Register.
SEC. 224. NATIONAL SEMINAR ON SMALL BUSINESS EXPORTS.
 (a) SEMINAR- The Administration shall conduct a National Seminar on Small
 Business Exports in Buffalo, New York, in connection with the World University
 Games Buffalo '93 during July, 1993, in order to develop recommendations
 designed to stimulate exports from small companies. The Seminar shall build
 upon the information collected by the Administration through previously
 conducted regional small business trade conferences and the prior conference
 in the State of Washington.
 (b) ASSISTANCE BY EXPERTS- For the purpose of ascertaining facts and
 developing policy recommendations concerning the expansion of United States
 exports from small companies, the Seminar shall bring together individuals
 who are experts in the fields of international trade and small business
 development and representatives of small businesses, associations, the labor
 community, academic institutions, and Federal, State and local governments.
 (c) RECOMMENDATIONS CONCERNING UTILITY OF INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE- The
 Seminar shall specifically consider the utility of, and make recommendations
 regarding, a subsequent International Conference on Small Business and
 Trade that would--
 (1) help establish linkages between United States small business owners
 and small business owners in foreign countries;
 (2) enable United States small business owners to learn how others organize
 themselves for exporting; and
 (3) foster greater consideration of small business concerns in the GATT
 and other international trade agreements to which the United States is
 a signatory.
SEC. 225. CO-SPONSORED TRAINING.
 Section 7(b) of the Small Business Computer Security and Education Act of
 1984 (15 U.S.C. 633 note) is amended by striking `October 1, 1992' in the
 first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof `October 1, 1994'.
SEC. 226. VIABILITY OF SECONDARY MARKETS.
 The Administrator of the Small Business Administration is authorized and
 directed to take such actions in the awarding of contracts as is deemed
 necessary to assure the continued long-term viability of the secondary markets
 in loans, debentures or other securities guaranteed by the Administration.
Subtitle D--Technical Amendments
SEC. 231. COMMISSION ON MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) TERMINATION- Section 505(f) of the Business Opportunity Development Reform
 Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 636 note; 102 Stat. 3887) is amended by inserting
 before the period at the end `or September 30, 1992, whichever is later'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply as if
 it were included in the Business Opportunity Development Reform Act of 1988
 (15 U.S.C. 636 note).
SEC. 232. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 8- Section 8 of the Small Business Act (15
 U.S.C. 837) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking the period and inserting a semicolon;
 (2) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking the period and inserting `; and';
 (3) in subsection (a)(6)(C)(i), by striking `to (A)' and inserting `to
 subparagraph (A)';
 (4) in subsection (a)(6)(C)(ii), by striking `7(j)(10)(H)' and inserting
 `7(j)(10)(G)';
 (5) in subsection (a)(12)(E), by striking `to (D)' and inserting `to
 subparagraph (D)';
 (6) by redesignating subsections (c) through (i) as subsections (d) through
 (j), respectively;
 (7) by inserting after subsection (b) the following:
 `(c) [Reserved].';
 (8) in subsection (d)(4)(F)(ii) (as redesignated by paragraph (6) of this
 subsection), by striking `impositon' and inserting `imposition'; and
 (9) in subsection (h)(2) (as redesignated by paragraph (6) of this
 subsection), by striking `Administration' and inserting `Administrative'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION  15- Section 15 of the Small Business Act (15
 U.S.C. 644) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)(2)(B), by striking `Blindmade' and inserting
 `Blind-made';
 (2) in paragraphs (3) and (5) of subsection (k), by striking the semicolon
 and inserting a comma;
 (3) in subsection (l)(6), by adding a period at the end; and
 (4) in subsection (m)(2)(B), by striking `requirement' and inserting
 `requirements'.
TITLE III--STUDIES AND RESOLUTIONS
Subtitle A--Access to Surety Bonding
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This subtitle may be cited as the `Small Business Access to Surety Bonding
 Survey Act of 1992'.
SEC. 302. SURVEY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General shall conduct a comprehensive survey
 of business firms, including using a questionnaire described in subsection
 (b), to obtain data on the experiences of such firms, and especially the
 experiences of small business concerns, in obtaining surety bonds from
 corporate surety firms.
 (b) CONTENT OF SURVEY QUESTIONNAIRE- In addition to such other questions as
 the Comptroller General deems appropriate to ensure a comprehensive survey
 under subsection (a), the questionnaire used by the Comptroller General
 shall include questions to obtain information from a surveyed business on--
 (1) the frequency with which the firm was requested to provide a corporate
 surety bond in fiscal year 1992;
 (2) whether the frequency with which the firm was requested to provide a
 corporate surety bond increased or decreased in fiscal years 1990, 1991,
 and 1992 and the reason for any increase or decrease, if known;
 (3) the frequency with which the firm provided a corporate surety bond in
 fiscal year 1992;
 (4) whether the frequency with which the firm provided a corporate surety
 bond increased or decreased in fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992 and the
 reason for any increase or decrease, if known;
 (5) the average size of corporate surety bonds provided by the firm in
 fiscal year 1992;
 (6) whether the average size of the corporate surety bonds provided by the
 firm increased or decreased during fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992 and
 the reason for any increase or decrease, if known;
 (7) the dollar amount of the largest corporate surety bond provided by the
 firm in fiscal year 1992;
 (8) whether the dollar amount of the largest corporate surety bond provided
 by the firm increased or decreased in fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992
 and the reason for any increase or decrease, if known;
 (9) the dollar amount of work performed by the firm by type of construction
 owner, including the Federal Government, State and local governments, other
 public entities, and private entities, in each of fiscal years 1990, 1991,
 and 1992;
 (10) the dollar amount of such work bonded by a corporate surety company
 for the firm by type of construction owner, including construction owners
 referred to in paragraph (9), for each of fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992;
 (11) whether the firm purchased its corporate surety bonds through an
 insurance agent or directly from a surety company;
 (12) the means used by the firm to identify its source for the purchase of
 corporate surety bonds;
 (13) the average corporate surety bond premium (expressed as a percentage
 of contract amount) paid by the firm in fiscal year 1992;
 (14) any increase or decrease in the average corporate surety bond premium
 (expressed as a percentage of the contract amount) paid by the firm in fiscal
 years 1990, 1991, and 1992 and the reason for any increase or decrease,
 if known;
 (15) whether or not the underwriting requirements (including state of accounts
 receivable, financial procedures, need for personal indemnification, and
 requirements for collateral) changed in fiscal year 1990, 1991, or 1992;
 (16) the nature of any changes in underwriting requirements experienced by
 the firm in fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992 and the reason for any such
 changes, if known;
 (17) whether or not the source of surety bonds (a surety agent or company)
 provided reasons for such changes in underwriting requirements and whether
 these reasons were provided orally or in writing;
 (18) whether or not the bonding capacity (total dollar amount and number
 of bonds) for the firm changed in fiscal year 1990, 1991, or 1992;
 (19) whether or not the source of surety bonds (a surety agent or company)
 provided reasons for any changes in bonding capacity and whether these
 reasons were provided orally or in writing;
 (20) the services provided and advice given by the firm's source of corporate
 surety bonds in fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992;
 (21) whether or not the firm obtained a corporate surety bond with the
 assistance of a Federal program (such as the surety bond guarantee program
 of the Small Business Administration and the bonding assistance program
 of the Department of Transportation) or a State or local program in fiscal
 year 1990, 1991, or 1992;
 (22) whether or not the firm used any alternative to corporate surety bonds
 (such as individual surety bonds, letters of credit, certificates of deposit,
 and government securities) in fiscal year 1990, 1991, or 1992;
 (23) if the firm has not provided any corporate surety bonds in fiscal year
 1990, 1991, or 1992, the reasons the firm has not done so;
 (24) the number of times the firm has had an application for a corporate
 surety bond denied in fiscal years 1990, 1991, and 1992, and the reason
 for any such denial, if known;
 (25) whether or not the proposed source for the corporate surety bond
 (a surety agent or company) provided the reasons for its denial of that
 application and whether that explanation was provided orally or in writing;
 (26) the length of time the firm has been in business;
 (27) the number of years of construction experience of the firm's officers
 (if a corporation), partners, or  owner (if a sole proprietorship), and those
 responsible for managing the execution of the firm's construction operations,
 and how many years of such experience is in the type  of construction that
 provides the majority of the firm's annual sales volume;
 (28) the approximate annual sales volume of the firm in fiscal years 1990,
 1991, and 1992;
 (29) the net worth (total assets less total liabilities) of the firm at
 the close of the firm's most recent fiscal year;
 (30) the working capital (current assets less current liabilities) of the
 firm at the close of the firm's most recent fiscal year;
 (31) the average age of the firm's accounts receivable (the average number
 of days required to collect payments due);
 (32) whether the firm made a profit in fiscal year 1990, 1991, or 1992;
 (33) the form and frequency of such firm's financial statements (statements
 audited and certified by an independent certified public accountant,
 statements reviewed by such a certified public accountant, compilation
 financial statements, or other forms of financial statements), and whether
 such statements were furnished with applications for bonding, if requested;
 and
 (34) the 4-digit standard industrial classification code in which the firm
 performs the majority of its work.
 (c) FIRMS TO BE SURVEYED- The Comptroller General shall develop a
 statistically valid sample of business firms from the most recent list of
 construction firms maintained by the Dun and Bradstreet Company (identified as
 the `DUN Market Identifier' file) for which data regarding sales is available.
SEC. 303. REPORT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Comptroller General, in consultation with the Small Business
 Administration, shall conduct an assessment of the data obtained in the
 survey conducted pursuant to section 302 and submit to the Committees on
 Small Business of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on
 the results of such assessment.
 (b) CONTENTS OF THE REPORT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The report required by subsection (a) shall contain--
 (A) a summary of responses of business firms to the survey conducted pursuant
 to section 302; and
 (B) a description of any trends found by the Comptroller General in such
 responses.
 (2) INFORMATION ON SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS- In presenting summaries
 of responses and descriptions of trends pursuant to paragraph (1), the
 Comptroller General shall provide specific information on the responses
 and trends of small business concerns, small business concerns owned and
 controlled by women, and small business concerns owned and controlled by
 socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.
SEC. 304. DEFINITIONS.
 For purposes of this subtitle--
 (1) the term `fiscal year' means the fiscal year of the business firm
 being surveyed;
 (2) the term `small business concern' has the same meaning as in section
 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632);
 (3) the term `small business concern owned and controlled by socially
 and economically disadvantaged individuals' has the same meaning as in
 section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C))
 (as redesignated by section 232(a)(6) of this Act); and
 (4) the term `small business concern owned and controlled by women' has
 the same meaning as in section 127(d) of the Small Business Administration
 Reauthorization and Amendment Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 637 note).
Subtitle B--Small Business Loan Secondary Market Study
SEC. 311. SECONDARY MARKET FOR LOANS TO SMALL BUSINESSES.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Congressional
 Budget Office, and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission,
 in consultation with the Administrator of the Small Business Administration,
 shall conduct a study of the potential benefits of, and legal, regulatory,
 and market-based barriers to, developing a secondary market for loans to
 small businesses. The study shall include consideration of--
 (1) market perceptions and the reasons for the slow development of a
 secondary market for loans to small businesses;
 (2) any means to standardize loan documents and underwriting for loans to
 small businesses relating to retail and office space;
 (3) the probable effects of the development of a secondary market for loans
 to small businesses on financial institutions and intermediaries, borrowers,
 lenders, real estate markets, and the credit markets generally;
 (4) legal and regulatory barriers that may be impeding the development of
 a secondary market for loans to small businesses; and
 (5) the risks posed by investments in loans to small businesses.
 (b) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Congressional Budget
 Office, and the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission shall
 transmit to the Congress a report on the results of the study under paragraph
 (1). The report shall include recommendations for legislation to facilitate
 the development of a secondary market for loans to small businesses.
Subtitle C--Contract Bundling Study
SEC. 321. CONTRACT BUNDLING STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Administrator of the Small Business Administration,
 acting through the Associate Administrator for Procurement Assistance, shall
 conduct a study regarding the impact of the practice known as `contract
 bundling' on the participation of small business concerns in the Federal
 procurement process.
 (b) PURPOSE- In addition to such other matters as the Associate Administrator
 for Procurement Assistance deems appropriate to assure the conduct of
 a comprehensive study and the development of practical recommendations,
 the study required by subsection (a) shall--
 (1) identify the benefits and adverse effects of contract bundling to the
 procuring agencies;
 (2) identify the benefits and adverse effects of contract bundling on small
 business concerns;
 (3) examine the adequacy of the policy direction to agency procurement
 officials regarding the bundling of contract requirements;
 (4) examine the extent to which agencies have been combining their
 requirements for the procurement of goods and services (including
 construction) into solicitations requiring an offeror to be able to perform
 increasingly larger contracts covering multiple and diverse elements of
 performance;
 (5) consider the appropriateness of the explanatory statements submitted
 by the procuring agencies pursuant to section 15(a) of the Small Business
 Act regarding bundling of contract requirements; and
 (6) determine whether procurement center representatives, small business
 specialists, or other agency procurement officials can, under existing
 guidance and authority, have the necessary policy direction and effective
 authority to make an independent assessment regarding a proposed bundling
 of contract requirements.
 (c) PARTICIPATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- In conducting the study described in subsection (b),
 the Associate Administrator for Procurement Assistance shall provide for
 participation by representatives of--
 (A) the Office of the Chief Counsel for Advocacy;
 (B) the Office of Federal Procurement Policy; and
 (C) the 10 Federal departments or agencies having the greatest dollar value
 of procurement awards during fiscal year 1991.
 (2) ADDITIONAL CONSULTATION- In conducting the study, the Associate
 Administrator for Procurement Assistance shall consult with representatives
 of organizations representing small business government contractors and
 such other public and private entities as may be appropriate.
 (d) SCHEDULE- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Associate Administrator for Procurement Assistance shall publish
 in the Federal Register a plan for the study required by this section.
 The study shall be completed not later than March 31, 1993.
 (e) REPORT- Not later than May 15, 1993, the Administrator of the Small
 Business Administration shall submit a report to the Committees on Small
 Business of the Senate and the House of Representatives.  The report shall
 contain the results of the study required by subsection (a), together
 with recommendations for legislative and regulatory changes to maintain
 small business participation in the Federal procurement process, as the
 Administrator deems appropriate.
 (f) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `contracting bundling'
 or `bundling of contract requirements' refers to the practice of consolidating
 into a single large contract solicitation multiple procurement requirements
 that were previously solicited and awarded as separate smaller contracts,
 generally resulting in a contract opportunity unsuitable for award to a
 small business concern due to the diversity and size of the elements of
 performance specified and the aggregate dollar value of the anticipated award.
Subtitle D--Resolution Regarding Small Business Access to Capital
SEC. 331. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) small business concerns remain a thriving and vital part of the economy,
 accounting for the majority of new jobs, new products, and new services
 created in the United States;
 (2) adequate access to either debt or equity capital is a critical component
 of small business formation, expansion, and success;
 (3) small business concerns, which represent higher degrees of risk in
 financial markets than do large businesses, are experiencing increased
 difficulties in obtaining credit;
 (4) minority-owned business enterprises have found extraordinary difficulties
 in obtaining credit; and
 (5) demand for credit under the loan guarantee program contained in section
 7(a) of the Small Business Act is insufficient to meet current demands.
 (b) SENSE OF THE CONGRESS- It is the sense of the Congress that--
 (1) financial institutions should expand their efforts to provide credit
 to small business concerns, with special emphasis on minority-owned small
 business concerns;
 (2) legislation and regulations considered by the Congress should be carefully
 examined to ensure that small business concerns are not negatively impacted;
 and
 (3) legislation and regulations that enhance the viability of small business
 concerns, including changes in tax and health care policy, should be given
 a priority for passage by the Congress.
TITLE IV--SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT ACT AMENDMENTS
SECTION 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Small Business Equity Enhancement Act of 1992'.
SEC. 402. LEVERAGE (MATCHING FUNDS) FORMULA.
 Section 303 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683)
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting after the word `debentures' in the first and sixth sentences
 of subsection (b) the following: `or participating securities';
 (2) by striking paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b) and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
 `(1) The total amount of debentures and participating securities that may
 be guaranteed by the Administration and outstanding from a company licensed
 under section 301(c) of this Act shall not exceed 300 per centum of the
 private capital of such company: Provided, That nothing in this paragraph
 shall require any such company that on March 31, 1993, has outstanding
 debentures in excess of 300 per centum of its private capital to prepay
 such excess: And provided further, That any such company may apply for an
 additional debenture guarantee or participating security guarantee with the
 proceeds to be used solely to pay the amount due on such maturing debenture,
 but the maturity of the new debenture or security shall be not later than
 September 30, 2002.
 `(2) After March 31, 1993, the maximum amount of outstanding leverage made
 available to a company licensed under section 301(c) of this Act shall be
 determined by the amount of such company's private capital--
 `(A) if the company has private capital of not more than $15,000,000, the
 total amount of leverage shall not exceed 300 per centum of private capital;
 `(B) if the company has private capital of more than $15,000,000 but not more
 than $30,000,000, the total amount of leverage shall not exceed $45,000,000
 plus 200 per centum of the amount of private capital over $15,000,000; and
 `(C) if the company has private capital of more than $30,000,000, the total
 amount of leverage shall not exceed $75,000,000 plus 100 per centum of the
 amount of private capital over $30,000,000 but not to exceed an additional
 $15,000,000.
 `(3) Subject to the foregoing dollar and percentage limits, a company
 licensed under section 301(c) of this Act may issue and have outstanding
 both guaranteed debentures and participating securities: Provided, That
 the total amount of participating securities outstanding shall not exceed
 200 per centum of private capital.
 `(4) In no event shall the aggregate amount of outstanding leverage of any
 such company or companies which are commonly controlled as determined by the
 Administration exceed $90,000,000, unless the Administration determines on
 a case by case basis to permit a higher amount for companies under common
 control and imposes such additional terms and conditions as it determines
 appropriate to minimize the risk of loss to the Administration in the event
 of default.';
 (3) by inserting before the period at the end of subsection (c)(6) the
 following: `, except as provided in paragraph (7)'; and
 (4) by adding the following at the end of subsection (c):
 `(7) The Administration may guarantee debentures or may guarantee the payment
 of the redemption price and prioritized payments on participating securities
 under subsection (g) from a company operating under section 301(d) of this
 Act in amounts above $35,000,000 but not to exceed the maximum amounts
 specified in section 303(b) subject to the following:
 `(A) The interest rate on debentures and the rate of prioritized payments
 on participating securities shall be that specified in subsection 303(g)(2)
 without any reductions.
 `(B) Any outstanding assistance under paragraphs (1) to (6) of this
 subsection shall be subtracted from such company's eligibility under section
 303(b)(2)(A).'.
SEC. 403. PARTICIPATING SECURITIES.
 Section 303 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683)
 is further amended by adding the following new subsections:
 `(g) In order to encourage small business investment companies to provide
 equity capital to small businesses, the Administration is authorized to
 guarantee the payment of the redemption price and prioritized payments on
 participating securities issued by such companies which are licensed pursuant
 to section 301(c) of this Act, and a trust or a pool acting on behalf of the
 Administration is authorized to purchase such securities. Such guarantees and
 purchases shall be made on such terms and conditions as the Administration
 shall establish by regulation. For purposes of this section, (A) the term
 `participating securities' includes preferred stock, a preferred limited
 partnership interest or a similar instrument, including debentures under
 the terms of which interest is payable only to the extent of earnings and
 (B) the term `prioritized payments' includes dividends on stock, interest on
 qualifying debentures, or priority returns on preferred limited partnership
 interests which are paid only to the extent of earnings. Participating
 securities guaranteed under this subsection shall be subject to the following
 restrictions and limitations, in addition to such other restrictions and
 limitations as the Administration may determine:
 `(1) Participating securities shall be redeemed not later than 15 years after
 their date of issuance for an amount equal to 100 per centum of the original
 issue price plus the amount of any accrued prioritized payment: Provided,
 That if, at the time the securities are redeemed, whether as scheduled or
 in advance, the issuing company (A) has not paid all accrued prioritized
 payments in full as provided in paragraph (2) below and (B) has not sold
 or otherwise disposed of all investments subject to profit distributions
 pursuant to paragraph (11), the company's obligation to pay accrued and
 unpaid prioritized payments shall continue and payment shall be made from
 the realized gain, if any, on the disposition of such investments, but if
 on disposition there is no realized gain, the obligation to pay accrued
 and unpaid prioritized payments shall be extinguished: Provided further,
 That in the interim, the company shall not make any in-kind distributions
 of such investments unless it pays to the Administration such sums, up to
 the amount of the unrealized appreciation on such investments, as may be
 necessary to pay in full the accrued prioritized payments.
 `(2) Prioritized payments on participating securities shall be preferred
 and cumulative and payable out of the retained earnings available for
 distribution, as defined by the Administration, of the issuing company at a
 rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into consideration
 the current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of the
 United States with remaining periods to maturity comparable to the average
 maturities on such securities, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth of 1 per
 centum, plus, at the time the guarantee is issued, such additional charge,
 if any, toward covering other costs of the program as the Administration may
 determine to be consistent with its purposes, but not to exceed 2 per centum.
 `(3) In the event of liquidation of the company, participating securities
 shall be senior in priority for all purposes to all other equity interests
 in the issuing company, whenever created.
 `(4) Any company issuing a participating security under this subsection
 shall commit to invest or shall invest and maintain an amount equal to the
 outstanding face value of such security solely in equity capital. As used
 in this subsection, `equity capital' means common or preferred stock or a
 similar instrument, including subordinated debt with equity features which
 is not amortized and which provides for interest payments contingent upon
 and limited to the extent of earnings.
 `(5) The only debt (other than leverage obtained in accordance with this
 title) which any company issuing a participating security under this
 subsection may have outstanding shall be temporary debt in amounts limited
 to not more than 50 per centum of private capital.
 `(6) The Administration may permit the proceeds of a participating security to
 be used to pay the principal amount due on outstanding debentures guaranteed
 by the Administration, if (A) the company has outstanding equity capital
 invested in an amount equal to the amount of the debentures being refinanced
 and (B) the Administration receives profit participation on such terms and
 conditions as it may determine, but not to exceed the per centums specified
 in paragraph (11).
 `(7) For purposes of computing profit participation under paragraph (11),
 except as otherwise determined by the Administration, the management
 expenses of any company which issues participating securities shall not
 be greater than 2.5 per centum per annum of the combined capital of the
 company, plus $125,000 if the company's combined capital is less than
 $20,000,000. For purposes of this paragraph, (A) the term `combined capital'
 means the aggregate amount of private capital and outstanding leverage and
 (B) the term `management expenses' includes salaries, office expenses,
 travel, business development, office and equipment rental, bookkeeping and
 the development, investigation and monitoring of investments, but does not
 include the cost of services provided by specialized outside consultants,
 outside lawyers and outside auditors, who perform services not generally
 expected of a venture capital company nor does such term include the cost
 of services provided by any affiliate of the company which are not part of
 the normal process of making and monitoring venture capital investments.
 `(8) Notwithstanding paragraph (9), if a company is operating as a limited
 partnership or as a subchapter s corporation or an equivalent pass-through
 entity for tax purposes and if there are no accumulated and unpaid prioritized
 payments, the company may make annual distributions to the partners or
 shareholders in amounts not greater than each partner's or shareholder's
 maximum tax liability.  For purposes of this paragraph, the term `maximum
 tax liability' means the amount of income allocated to each partner or
 shareholder (including an allocation to the Administration as if it were a
 taxpayer) for Federal income tax purposes in the income tax return filed or
 to be filed by the company with respect to the fiscal year of the company
 immediately preceding such distribution, multiplied by the highest combined
 marginal Federal and State income tax rates for corporations or individuals,
 whichever is higher, on each type of income included in such return. For
 purposes of this paragraph, the term `State income tax' means the income
 tax of the State where the company's principal place of business is located.
 `(9) After making any distributions as provided in paragraph (8), a company
 with participating securities outstanding may distribute the balance of
 income to its investors, specifically including the Administration, in the per
 centums specified in paragraph (11), if there are no accumulated and unpaid
 prioritized payments and if all amounts due the Administration pursuant to
 paragraph (11) have been paid in full, subject to the following conditions:
 `(A) As of the date of the proposed distribution, if the amount of leverage
 outstanding is more than 200 per centum of the amount of private capital,
 any amounts distributed shall be made to private investors and to the
 Administration in the ratio of leverage to private capital.
 `(B) As of the date of the proposed distribution, if the amount of leverage
 outstanding is more than 100 per centum but not more than 200 per centum
 of the amount of private capital, 50 per centum of any amounts distributed
 shall be made to the Administration and 50 per centum shall be made to the
 private investors.
 `(C) If the amount of leverage outstanding is 100 per centum, or less, of
 the amount of private capital, the ratio shall be that for distribution of
 profits as provided in paragraph (11).
 `(D) Any amounts received by the Administration under subparagraph (A) or
 (B) shall be applied first as profit participation as provided in paragraph
 (11) and any remainder shall be applied as a prepayment of the principal
 amount of the participating securities or debentures.
 `(10) After making any distributions pursuant to paragraph (8), a company with
 participating securities outstanding may return capital to its investors,
 specifically including the Administration, if there are no accumulated
 and unpaid prioritized payments and if all amounts due the Administration
 pursuant to paragraph (11) have been paid in full. Any distributions under
 this paragraph shall be made to private investors and to the Administration
 in the ratio of private capital to leverage as of the date of the proposed
 distribution: Provided, That if the amount of leverage outstanding is
 less than 50 per centum of the amount of private capital or $10,000,000,
 whichever is less, no distribution shall be required to be made to the
 Administration unless the Administration determines, on a case by case
 basis, to require distributions to the Administration to reduce the amount
 of outstanding leverage to an amount less than $10,000,000.
 `(11)(A) A company which issues participating securities shall agree to
 allocate to the Administration a share of its profits determined by the
 relationship of its private capital to the amount of participating securities
 guaranteed by the Administration in accordance with the following:
 `(i) If the total amount of participating securities is 100 per centum of
 private capital or less, the company shall allocate to the Administration a
 per centum share computed as follows: the amount of participating securities
 divided by private capital times 9 per centum.
 `(ii) If the total amount of participating securities is more than 100 per
 centum but not greater than 200 per centum of private capital, the company
 shall allocate to the Administration a per centum share computed as follows:
 `(I) 9 per centum, plus
 `(II) 3 per centum of the amount of participating securities minus private
 capital divided by private capital.
 `(B) Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph--
 `(i) in no event shall the total per centum required by this paragraph exceed
 12 per centum, unless required pursuant to the provisions of (ii) below,
 `(ii) if, on the date the participating securities are marketed, the interest
 rate on Treasury bonds with a maturity of 10 years is a rate other than 8 per
 centum, the Administration shall adjust the rate specified in paragraph (A)
 above, either higher or lower, by the same per centum by which the Treasury
 bond rate is higher or lower than 8 per centum, and
 `(iii) this paragraph shall not be construed to create any ownership interest
 of the Administration in the company.
 `(12) A company may elect to make an in-kind distribution of securities only
 if such securities are publicly traded and marketable. The company shall
 deposit the Administration's share of such securities for disposition with
 a trustee designated by the Administration or, at its option and with the
 agreement of the company, the Administration may direct the company to retain
 the Administration's share. If the company retains the Administration's share,
 it shall sell the Administration's share and promptly remit the proceeds to
 the Administration. As used in this paragraph, the term `trustee' means a
 person who is knowledgeable about and proficient in the marketing of thinly
 traded securities.
 `(h) The computation of amounts due the Administration under participating
 securities shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 `(1) The formula in subsection (g)(11) shall be computed annually and the
 Administration shall receive distributions of its profit participation at
 the same time as other investors in the company.
 `(2) The formula shall not be modified due to an increase in the private
 capital unless the increase is provided for in a proposed business plan
 submitted to and approved by the Administration.
 `(3) After distributions have been made, the Administration's share of such
 distributions shall not be recomputed or reduced.
 `(4) If the company prepays or repays the participating securities,
 the Administration shall receive the requisite participation upon the
 distribution of profits due to any investments held by the company on the
 date of the repayment or prepayment.
 `(5) If a company is licensed on or before March 31, 1993, it may elect to
 exclude from profit participation all investments held on that date and in
 such case the Administration shall determine the amount of the future expenses
 attributable to such prior investment: Provided, That if the company issues
 participating securities to refinance debentures as authorized in subsection
 (g)(6), it may not elect to exclude profits on existing investments under
 this paragraph.'.
SEC. 404. POOLING.
 Section 321 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 687l)
 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 321. ISSUANCE AND GUARANTEE OF TRUST CERTIFICATES.
 `(a) The Administration is authorized to issue trust certificates
 representing ownership of all or a fractional part of debentures issued by
 small business investment companies, including companies operating under
 the authority of section 301(d), and guaranteed by the Administration under
 this Act, or participating securities which are issued by such companies
 and purchased and guaranteed pursuant to section 303(g): Provided, That
 such trust certificates shall be based on and backed by a trust or pool
 approved by the Administration and composed solely of guaranteed debentures
 or guaranteed participating securities.
 `(b) The Administration is authorized, upon such terms and conditions as are
 deemed appropriate, to guarantee the timely payment of the principal of and
 interest on trust certificates issued by the Administration or its agent for
 purposes of this section. Such guarantee shall be limited to the extent of
 principal and interest on the guaranteed debentures or the redemption price
 of and priority payments on the participating securities, which compose
 the trust or pool. In the event that a debenture in such trust or pool is
 prepaid, or participating securities are redeemed, either voluntarily or
 involuntarily, or in the event of default of a debenture or voluntary or
 involuntary redemption of a participating security, the guarantee of timely
 payment of principal and interest on the trust certificates shall be reduced
 in proportion to the amount of principal and interest such prepaid debenture
 or redeemed participating security and priority payments represent in the
 trust or pool. Interest on prepaid or defaulted debentures, or priority
 payments on participating securities, shall accrue and be guaranteed by the
 Administration only through the date of payment on the guarantee. During
 the term of the trust certificate, it may be called for redemption due to
 prepayment or default of all debentures or redemption, whether voluntary
 or involuntary, of all participating securities residing in the pool.
 `(c) The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment
 of all amounts which may be required to be paid under any guarantee of such
 trust certificates issued by the Administration or its agent pursuant to
 this section.
 `(d) The Administration shall not collect a fee for any guarantee under
 this section: Provided, That nothing herein shall preclude any agent of
 the Administration from collecting a fee approved by the Administration
 for the functions described in subsection (f)(2) of this section.
 `(e)(1) In the event the Administration pays a claim under a guarantee
 issued under this section, it shall be subrogated fully to the rights
 satisfied by such payment.
 `(2) No State or local law, and no Federal law, shall preclude or limit the
 exercise by the Administration of its ownership rights in the debentures
 or participating securities residing in a trust or pool against which trust
 certificates are issued.
 `(f)(1) The Administration shall provide for a central registration of all
 trust certificates sold pursuant to this section. Such central registration
 shall include with respect to each sale--
 `(A) identification of each small business investment company;
 `(B) the interest rate or prioritized payment rate paid by the small business
 investment company;
 `(C) commissions, fees, or discounts paid to brokers and dealers in trust
 certificates;
 `(D) identification of each purchaser of the trust certificate;
 `(E) the price paid by the purchaser for the trust certificate;
 `(F) the interest rate on the trust certificate;
 `(G) the fee of any agent for carrying out the functions described in
 paragraph (2); and
 `(H) such other information as the Administration deems appropriate.
 `(2) The Administrator shall contract with an agent or agents to carry out
 on behalf of the Administration the pooling and the central registration
 functions of this section including, notwithstanding any other provision of
 law, maintenance on behalf of and under the direction of the Administration,
 such commercial bank accounts as may be necessary to facilitate trusts
 or pools backed by debentures or participating securities guaranteed
 under this Act, and the issuance of trust certificates to facilitate such
 poolings. Such agent or agents shall provide a fidelity bond or insurance
 in such amounts as the Administration determines to be necessary to fully
 protect the interests of the Government.
 `(3) Prior to any sale, the Administrator shall require the seller to
 disclose to a purchaser of a trust certificate issued pursuant to this
 section, information on the terms, conditions, and yield of such instrument.
 `(4) The Administrator is authorized to regulate brokers and dealers in
 trust certificates sold pursuant to this section.'.
SEC. 405. AUTHORIZATIONS.
 Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking in subsection (g)(3) `stock and $221,000,000 in guarantees
 of debentures' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `securities,
 $221,000,000 in guarantees of debentures, of which $40,000,000 is authorized
 in guarantees of debentures from companies operating pursuant to section
 301(d) of such Act, and $100,000,000 in guarantees of participating
 securities';
 (2) by striking in subsection (i)(3) `stock and $232,000,000 in guarantees
 of debentures' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `securities,
 $232,000,000 in guarantees of debentures, of which $42,000,000 is authorized
 in guarantees of debentures from companies operating pursuant to section
 301(d) of such Act, and $250,000,000 in guarantees of participating
 securities'; and
 (3) by adding the following new subsections at the end thereof:
 `(k) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1995:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $23,000,000 in purchases
 of preferred securities, $244,000,000 in guarantees of debentures, of which
 $44,000,000 is authorized in guarantees of debentures from companies operating
 pursuant to section 301(d) of such Act, and $400,000,000 in guarantees of
 participating securities.
 `(l) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1995 such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (k),
 including salaries and expenses of the Administration.
 `(m) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1996:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $24,000,000 in purchases
 of preferred securities, $256,000,000 in guarantees of debentures, of which
 $46,000,000 is authorized in guarantees of debentures from companies operating
 pursuant to section 301(d) of such Act, and $550,000,000 in guarantees of
 participating securities.
 `(n) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1996 such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (m),
 including salaries and expenses of the Administration.
 `(o) The following program levels are authorized for fiscal year 1997:
 `(1) For the programs authorized by title III of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958, the Administration is authorized to make $25,000,000 in purchases
 of preferred securities, $268,000,000 in guarantees of debentures, of which
 $48,000,000 is authorized in guarantees of debentures from companies operating
 pursuant to section 301(d) of such Act, and $700,000,000 in guarantees of
 participating securities.
 `(p) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Administration for
 fiscal year 1997 such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (o),
 including salaries and expenses of the Administration.'.
SEC. 406. SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS.
 (a) FINANCIAL VIABILITY DETERMINED- Section 302 of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682) is amended by adding the following
 at the end of subsection (a): `The Administration shall also determine the
 ability of the company, both prior to licensing and prior to approving any
 request for financing, to make periodic payments on any debt of the company
 which is interest bearing and shall take into consideration the income which
 the company anticipates on its contemplated investments, the experience of
 the company's owners and managers, the history of the company as an entity,
 if any, and the company's financial resources.'.
 (b) VALUATION GUIDELINES AND RESPONSIBILITY- Section 310 of the Small
 Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 687b) is amended by adding at
 the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(d) Each small business investment company shall adopt written guidelines
 for determination of the value of investments made by such company. The board
 of directors of corporations and the general partners of partnerships shall
 have the sole responsibility for making a good faith determination of the fair
 market value of the investments made by such company. Determinations shall be
 made and reported to the Administration not less than semiannually or at more
 frequent intervals as the Administration determines appropriate: Provided,
 That any company which does not have outstanding financial assistance under
 the provisions of this title shall be required to make such determinations
 and reports to the Administration annually, unless the Administration,
 in its discretion, determines otherwise.'.
SEC. 407. EXAMINATIONS.
 (a) EXAMINATION BY INVESTMENT DIVISION- Section 310 of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 687b) is amended by striking from subsection
 (b) `Administration by examiners selected or approved by' and by inserting
 in lieu thereof the following: `Investment Division of'.
 (b) TRANSFER OF RESOURCES- Effective October 1, 1992, the personnel,
 assets, liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances
 of appropriations, authorizations, and other funds employed, held, used,
 arising from, available or to be made available, which are related to
 the examination function provided by section 310 of the Small Business
 Investment Act of 1958 shall be transferred by the Inspector General of
 the Small Business Administration to the Investment Division of the Small
 Business Administration.
SEC. 408. NON-FINANCED SBICS.
 (a) INVESTMENT LIMITATION- Section 306(a) of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 686(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) If any small business investment company has obtained financing from
 the Administration and such financing remains outstanding, the aggregate
 amount of obligations and securities acquired and for which commitments
 may be issued by such company under the provisions of this title for any
 single enterprise shall not exceed 20 per centum of the private capital of
 such company, without the approval of the Administration.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 310 of the Small Business Investment Act
 of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 687b) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the
 end of subsection (c)(5) the following: `, if such restriction is applicable'.
 (c) TEMPORARY INVESTMENT OF FUNDS- Section 308(b) of the Small  Business
 Investment  Act  of  1958  (15  U.S.C.  687(b)) is amended by inserting after
 `Such companies' in the third sentence the following: `with outstanding
 financings'.
 (d) REGULATORY REVIEW- Not later than 90 days after the effective date
 of this Act, the Small Business Administration shall complete a review
 of those regulations intended to provide for the safety and soundness of
 those small business investment companies which obtain financing from the
 Administration under the provisions of the Small Business Investment Act
 of 1958. The Administration is directed to exempt from such regulations,
 or to separately regulate, those companies which do not obtain financing
 from the Administration.
 (e) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Administration, within 180 days after the
 effective date of this Act, shall report on actions taken pursuant to section
 8(d) of this Act to the Committees on Small Business of the Senate and the
 House of Representatives, including the rationale for its actions.
SEC. 409. MINIMUM CAPITAL.
 Section 302 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682)
 is amended by striking from subsection (a) `1979 pursuant to sections 301(c)
 and (d) of this Act shall be not less than $500,000' and inserting in lieu
 thereof the following: `1992 pursuant to section 301(c) of this title shall
 be not less than $2,500,000 and pursuant to section 301(d) of this title
 shall be not less than $1,500,000'.
SEC. 410. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 103 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 662)
 is amended as follows:
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (7);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (8) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(9) notwithstanding any other provision of law, the term `private capital'
 means the private paid-in capital and paid-in surplus of a corporate licensee,
 or the private partnership capital of an unincorporate licensee, inclusive
 of (A) any funds invested in the licensee by a public or private pension
 fund, (B) any funds invested in the licensee by State or local government
 entities, to the extent that such investment does not exceed 33 percent of
 a licensee's total private capital and otherwise meets criteria established
 by the Administration, and (C) unfunded commitments from institutional
 investors that meet criteria established by the Administration, but it
 excludes any funds which are borrowed by the licensee from any source or
 which are obtained or derived, directly or indirectly, from any Federal
 source, including the Administration: Provided, That no unfunded commitment
 from an institutional investor may be used for the purpose of meeting the
 minimum amount of private capital required by this Act or as the basis for
 the Administration to issue obligations to provide financing; and
 `(10) the term `leverage' includes debentures purchased or guaranteed by
 the Administration, participating securities purchased or guaranteed by
 the Administration, or preferred securities issued by companies licensed
 under section 301(d) of this Act and which have been purchased by the
 Administration.'.
SEC. 411. INTEREST RATE CEILING.
 Section 305 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 685) is
 amended by striking the period at the end of subsection (c) and by inserting
 in lieu thereof the following: `: Provided, That the Administration also
 shall permit those companies which have issued debentures pursuant to this
 Act to charge a maximum rate of interest based upon the coupon rate of
 interest on the outstanding debentures, determined on an annual basis, plus
 such other expenses of the company as may be approved by the Administration.'.
SEC. 412. PREFERRED PARTNERSHIP INTERESTS.
 Section 303(c) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683(c))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking from the first sentence the word `preferred';
 (2) by inserting after the second sentence the following: `As used in this
 subsection, the term `securities' means shares of nonvoting stock or other
 corporate securities or limited partnership interests which have similar
 characteristics.'; and
 (3) by striking from paragraph (1) `shares of nonvoting stock (or other
 corporate securities having similar characteristics)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `such securities'.
SEC. 413. INDIRECT FUNDS FROM STATE OR LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
 Section 303(e) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 683(e))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting after the word `company' the following: `licensed under
 section 301(d) and notwithstanding section 103(9)'; and
 (2) by striking `prior' and all that follows through the period at the
 end and inserting `to November 21, 1989: Provided, That such companies may
 include in private capital for any purpose funds indirectly obtained from
 State or local governments. As used in this subsection, the term `capital
 indirectly obtained' includes income generated by a State financing authority
 or similar State institution or agency or from the investment of State or
 local money or amounts originally provided to nonprofit institutions or
 corporations which such institutions or corporations, in their discretion,
 determine to invest in a company licensed under section 301(d).'.
SEC. 414. SBIC APPROVALS.
 Section 20 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631 note) is amended by
 adding the following at the end of subsection (a)(2): `Subject to approval in
 appropriations Acts, amounts authorized for preferred securities, debentures
 or participating securities under title III of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958 may be obligated in one fiscal year and disbursed or guaranteed
 in the following fiscal year.'.
SEC. 415. IMPLEMENTATION.
 Notwithstanding any law, rule, regulation or administrative moratorium,
 except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Small Business
 Administration shall--
 (1) within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, publish in the
 Federal Register proposed rules and regulations implementing this Act and
 the amendments made by this Act; and
 (2) within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, publish in
 the Federal Register final rules and regulations implementing this Act,
 and enter such contracts as are necessary to implement this Act and the
 amendments made by this Act.
SEC. 416. BUY AMERICA.
 Section 102 of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 1661)
 is amended by adding at the end the following: `It is the intention of the
 Congress that in the award of financial assistance under this Act, when
 practicable, priority be accorded to small business concerns which lease
 or purchase equipment and supplies which are produced in the United States
 and that small business concerns receiving such assistance be encouraged
 to continue to lease or purchase such equipment and supplies.'.
SEC. 417. STUDIES AND REPORTS.
 (a) SBA ANNUAL REPORT- Section 308(g) of the Small Business Investment Act
 of 1958 (12 U.S.C. 687(g)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new paragraph:
 `(3) In its annual report for the year ending on December 31, 1993, and
 in each succeeding annual report made pursuant to section 10(a) of the
 Small Business Act, the Administration shall include a full and detailed
 description or account relating to--
 `(A) the number of small business investment companies the Administration
 licensed, the number of licensees that have been placed in liquidation,
 and the number of licensees that have surrendered their licenses in the
 previous year, identifying the amount of government leverage each has
 received and the type of leverage instruments each has used;
 `(B) the amount of government leverage that each licensee received in the
 previous year and the types of leverage instruments each licensee used;
 `(C) for each type of financing instrument, the sizes, geographic locations,
 and other characteristics of the small business investment companies using
 them, including the extent to which the investment companies have used
 the leverage from each instrument to make small business loans, equity
 investments, or both; and
 `(D) the frequency with which each type of investment instrument has been
 used in the current year and a comparison of the current year with previous
 years.'.
 (b) REPORT OF THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL- Not later than 4 years after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall
 transmit to the Committees on Small Business of the House of Representatives
 and the Senate a report that reviews the Small Business Investment Company
 program (established under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958) for
 the 3-year period following the date of enactment of this Act, with respect
 to each item listed in section 308(g)(3) of the Small Business Investment
 Act of 1958, as amended by subsection (a).
SEC. 418. NO EFFECT ON SECURITIES LAWS.
 Nothing in this Act (and  no amendment made by this Act) shall be construed
 to affect the applicability of the securities laws, as that term is defined
 in section  3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or any of
 the rules and regulations thereunder, or otherwise supersede or limit the
 jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the authority at
 any time conferred under the securities laws.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.