 
--H.R.3029--
H.R.3029
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To make technical corrections to agricultural laws.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act Amendments of 1991'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PROGRAMS
Sec. 101. References.
Sec. 102. Conserving use acres.
Sec. 103. Double cropping of 0/92 acres.
Sec. 104. Announcement of acreage reduction programs for rice.
Sec. 105. Corn and sorghum bases.
Sec. 106. Cover crops on reduced acreage.
Sec. 107. Cotton user marketing certificates.
Sec. 108. Malting barley.
Sec. 109. Deficiency payments for wheat, barley, and oats.
Sec. 110. Minor oilseed loan rates.
Sec. 111. Sugar.
Sec. 112. Crop acreage base.
Sec. 113. Miscellaneous amendments to the Agricultural Act of 1949.
Sec. 114. Miscellaneous amendments relating to the Food, Agriculture,
Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990.
Sec. 115. Miscellaneous amendments to the Agricultural Adjustment Act.
Sec. 116. Miscellaneous amendments to the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938.
Sec. 117. Section redesignation.
Sec. 118. Other miscellaneous commodity amendments.
Sec. 119. Sense of Congress regarding imported barley and oats.
Sec. 120. Cotton classing fees.
Sec. 121. Sense of Congress regarding targeted option payments.
Sec. 122. Transfer of peanut quota undermarketings.
Sec. 123. Cotton futures contracts.
Sec. 124. Lamb price and supply reporting services report and system.
Sec. 125. Cotton first handler marketing certificates.
Sec. 126. Production of black-eyed peas for donation.
Sec. 127. Milk price support program limited to 48 contiguous States.
Sec. 128. Modification of milk production termination program.
TITLE II--CONSERVATION
Sec. 201. Amendments to the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
of 1990.
Sec. 202. Amendment to the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act.
Sec. 203. Farms for the Future.
Sec. 204. Amendments to the Food Security Act of 1985.
TITLE III--AGRICULTURAL TRADE
Sec. 301. Superfluous punctuation in farmer to farmer provisions.
Sec. 302. Punctuation correction in Enterprise for the Americas Initiative.
Sec. 303. Spelling correction in section 604.
Sec. 304. Missing word in section 606.
Sec. 305. Punctuation error in section 607.
Sec. 306. Typographical correction in section 612.
Sec. 307. Erroneous quotation.
Sec. 308. Punctuation correction.
Sec. 309. Date correction.
Sec. 310. Missing subtitle heading correction.
Sec. 311. Redesignation of subsection.
Sec. 312. Date correction to section 404.
Sec. 313. Date correction to section 416.
Sec. 314. Redesignation of section.
Sec. 315. Cross reference correction.
Sec. 316. Placement clarification.
Sec. 317. Punctuation correction.
Sec. 318. Elimination of obsolete cross reference.
Sec. 319. Cross reference correction.
Sec. 320. Correcting clerical errors in section 204 of the Agricultural
Trade Act of 1978.
Sec. 321. Capitalization correction.
Sec. 322. Correction of error in date.
Sec. 323. Correction of typographical error.
Sec. 324. Cross reference correction.
Sec. 325. Elimination of superfluous word.
Sec. 326. Cross reference correction.
Sec. 327. Amendment to section 602.
Sec. 328. Section 407 corrections.
Sec. 329. Section 407(b) amendment.
Sec. 330. Supplemental views in annual report.
Sec. 331. Consultations with Congress.
Sec. 332. Statute designation.
Sec. 333. Correction of placement and indentation of subparagraph.
Sec. 334. Export credit guarantee program.
Sec. 335. Technical amendments to the Food for Progress Program.
Sec. 336. Miscellaneous amendment to the Agricultural Trade Development and
Assistance Act of 1954.
Sec. 337. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 338. Sharing United States agricultural expertise and information.
Sec. 339. Conforming amendment relating to the Environment for the Americas
Board.
TITLE IV--RESEARCH
Sec. 401. Competitive, special, and facilities research grants.
Sec. 402. National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy
Act of 1977.
Sec. 403. Rural development and small farm research and education.
Sec. 404. National Genetic Resources Program.
Sec. 405. Alternative agricultural research and commercialization.
Sec. 406. Deer tick research.
Sec. 407. Miscellaneous research provisions.
Sec. 408. Sustainable agriculture research and education.
TITLE V--CREDIT
Sec. 501. Amendments to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
Sec. 502. Amendments to the Farm Credit Act of 1971.
Sec. 503. Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation.
TITLE VI--CROP INSURANCE AND DISASTER ASSISTANCE
Sec. 601. Federal crop insurance.
Sec. 602. Disaster relief.
TITLE VII--RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Sec. 701. Amendments to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
Sec. 702. Amendments to the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
of 1990.
Sec. 703. Amendments to the Rural Electrification Act of 1936.
Sec. 704. Rural health leadership development.
TITLE VIII--AGRICULTURAL PROMOTION
Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Pecans.
Sec. 803. Mushrooms.
Sec. 804. Potatoes.
Sec. 805. Limes.
Sec. 806. Soybeans.
Sec. 807. Honey.
Sec. 808. Cotton.
Sec. 809. Fluid milk.
Sec. 810. Wool.
TITLE IX--FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS
Subtitle A--Food Stamp Program
Sec. 901. Application of Food Stamp Act of 1977 to disabled persons.
Sec. 902. Categorical eligibility for recipients of general assistance.
Sec. 903. Exclusions from income.
Sec. 904. Resources that cannot be sold for a significant return.
Sec. 905. Resource exemption for households exempt under AFDC or SSI.
Sec. 906. Technical amendment on transitional housing.
Sec. 907. Performance standards for employment and training programs.
Sec. 908. Suspension of certain requirements, and study, of food stamp
program on Indian reservations.
Sec. 909. Value of allotment.
Sec. 910. Prorating within a certification period.
Sec. 911. Recovery of claims caused by nonfraudulent household errors.
Sec. 912. Demonstration projects for vehicle exclusion limit.
Sec. 913. Definition of retail food store.
Subtitle B--Commodity Distribution
Sec. 921. Extension of elderly commodity processing demonstrations.
Sec. 922. Reduction of Federal paperwork for distribution of commodities.
Subtitle C--Indian Subsistence Farming Demonstration Grant
Sec. 931. Purposes.
Sec. 932. Definitions.
Sec. 933. Indian subsistence farming demonstration grant program.
Sec. 934. Training and technical assistance.
Sec. 935. Tribal consultation.
Sec. 936. Use of grants.
Sec. 937. Amount and term of grant.
Sec. 938. Other requirements.
Sec. 939. Authorization of appropriations.
Subtitle D--Technical Amendments
Sec. 941. Technical amendments to the Food Stamp Act of 1977.
Sec. 942. Amendment relating to the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988.
TITLE X--MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
Sec. 1001. Organic certification.
Sec. 1002. Agricultural fellowships.
Sec. 1003. Outreach and assistance for socially disadvantaged farmers and
ranchers.
Sec. 1004. Protection of pets.
Sec. 1005. Critical agricultural materials.
Sec. 1006. Amendments to FIFRA and related provisions.
Sec. 1007. Grain standards.
Sec. 1008. Packers and stockyards.
Sec. 1009. Redundant language in Warehouse Act.
Sec. 1010. Clarification of Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
of 1990.
Sec. 1011. Perishable agricultural commodities.
Sec. 1012. Egg products inspection.
Sec. 1013. Prevention of introduction of brown tree snakes to Hawaii from Guam.
Sec. 1014. Grant to prevent and control potato diseases.
Sec. 1015. Collection of fees for inspection services.
Sec. 1016. Exemption and study of certain food products.
Sec. 1017. Fees for laboratory accreditation.
Sec. 1018. State and private forestry technical amendments.
Sec. 1019. Repeal of Public Law 76-543.
TITLE XI--EFFECTIVE DATES
Sec. 1101. Effective dates.
TITLE I--AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY PROGRAMS
SEC. 101. REFERENCES.
 Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this title a section
 is amended, repealed, or referenced, such amendment, repeal, or reference
 shall be considered to be made to that section of the Agricultural Act of
 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.).
SEC. 102. CONSERVING USE ACRES.
 (a) RICE- Section 101B(c)(1)(E) (7 U.S.C. 1441-2(c)(1)(E)) is amended--
 (1) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of clauses (i) and (ii) and
 redesignating such clauses as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively;
 (2) by striking `(E) ALTERNATIVE CROPS- The Secretary' and inserting the
 following:
 `(E) Alternative crops-
 `(i) INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER CROPS- The Secretary';
 (3) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of clause (i) (as amended by paragraph
 (2));
 (4) by striking `sesame, castor beans, crambe,' and inserting `castor beans,';
 (5) by striking `rye, mung beans,' and inserting `rye, millet, mung beans,';
 (6) in subclause (I) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), by striking `and
 will not affect farm income adversely'; and
 (7) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ii) SESAME AND CRAMBE- The Secretary shall permit, subject to such terms
 and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, all or any part of acreage
 otherwise required to be devoted to conservation uses as a condition of
 qualifying for payments under subparagraph (D) to be devoted to sesame
 and crambe. In implementing this clause, if the Secretary determines that
 sesame or crambe are considered oilseeds under section 205, the Secretary
 shall provide that, in order to receive payments under subparagraph (D),
 the producers shall agree to forgo eligibility to receive a loan under
 section 205 for the crop of sesame or crambe produced on the farm.'.
 (b) COTTON- Section 103B(c)(1)(E) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(c)(1)(E)) is amended--
 (1) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of clauses (i) and (ii) and
 redesignating such clauses as subclauses (I) and (II), respectively;
 (2) by striking `(E) ALTERNATIVE CROPS- The Secretary' and inserting the
 following:
 `(E) ALTERNATIVE CROPS-
 `(i) INDUSTRIAL AND OTHER CROPS- The Secretary';
 (3) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of clause (i) (as amended by paragraph
 (2));
 (4) by striking `sesame, castor beans, crambe,' and inserting `castor beans,';
 (5) by striking `rye, mung beans,' and inserting `rye, millet, mung beans,';
 (6) in subclause (I) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), by striking `and
 will not affect farm income adversely'; and
 (7) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ii) SESAME AND CRAMBE- The Secretary shall permit, subject to such terms
 and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, all or any part of acreage
 otherwise required to be devoted to conservation uses as a condition of
 qualifying for payments under subparagraph (D) to be devoted to sesame
 and crambe. In implementing this clause, if the Secretary determines that
 sesame or crambe are considered oilseeds under section 205, the Secretary
 shall provide that, in order to receive payments under subparagraph (D),
 the producers shall agree to forgo eligibility to receive a loan under
 section 205 for the crop of sesame or crambe produced on the farm.'.
 (c) FEED GRAINS- Section 105B(c)(1)(F) (7 U.S.C. 1444f(c)(1)(F)) is amended--
 (1) in clause (i)--
 (A) by striking `sesame, castor beans, crambe,' and inserting `castor beans,';
 (B) by striking `rye, mung beans,' and inserting `rye, millet, mung
 beans,'; and
 (C) in subclause (I), by striking `and will not affect farm income
 adversely'; and
 (2) in clause (ii), by striking `mustard seed, and' and inserting `mustard
 seed, sesame, crambe, and'.
 (d) WHEAT- Section 107B(c)(1)(F) (7 U.S.C. 1445b-3a(c)(1)(F)) is amended--
 (1) in clause (i)--
 (A) by striking `sesame, castor beans, crambe,' and inserting `castor beans,';
 (B) by striking `rye, mung beans,' and inserting `rye, millet, mung
 beans,'; and
 (C) in subclause (I), by striking `and will not affect farm income
 adversely'; and
 (2) in clause (ii), by striking `mustard seed, and' and inserting `mustard
 seed, sesame, crambe, and'.
SEC. 103. DOUBLE CROPPING OF 0/92 ACRES.
 (a) FEED GRAINS- Section 105B(c)(1)(F) (7 U.S.C. 1444f(c)(1)(F)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(iii) DOUBLE CROPPING- The Secretary shall permit, subject to such terms
 and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, all or any portion of the
 acreage otherwise required to be devoted to conservation uses as a condition
 of qualifying for payments under subparagraph (E) that is devoted to an
 industrial, oilseed, or other crop pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) to be
 subsequently planted during the same crop year to any crop described in
 subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of section 504(b)(1). The planting of soybeans
 as such subsequently planted crop shall be limited to farms determined by
 the Secretary to have an established history of double cropping soybeans
 during at least 3 of the preceding 5 years. In implementing this clause,
 the Secretary shall require producers to agree to forego eligibility to
 receive loans under this Act for the crop of the subsequently planted crop
 that is produced on a farm under this clause.'.
 (b) WHEAT- Section 107B(c)(1)(F) (7 U.S.C. 1445b-3a(c)(1)(F)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(iii) DOUBLE CROPPING- The Secretary shall permit, subject to such terms
 and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, all or any portion of the
 acreage otherwise required to be devoted to conservation uses as a condition
 of qualifying for payments under subparagraph (E) that is devoted to an
 industrial, oilseed, or other crop pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) to be
 subsequently planted during the same crop year to any crop described in
 subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of section 504(b)(1). The planting of soybeans
 as such subsequently planted crop shall be limited to farms determined by
 the Secretary to have an established history of double cropping soybeans
 during at least 3 of the preceding 5 years. In implementing this clause,
 the Secretary shall require producers to agree to forego eligibility to
 receive loans under this Act for the crop of the subsequently planted crop
 that is produced on a farm under this clause.'.
SEC. 104. ANNOUNCEMENT OF ACREAGE REDUCTION PROGRAMS FOR RICE.
 Section 101B(e)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1441-2(e)(1)) is amended by striking subparagraph
 (C) and inserting the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) ANNOUNCEMENTS-
 `(i) PRELIMINARY ANNOUNCEMENT- If the Secretary elects to implement an
 acreage limitation program for any crop year, the Secretary shall make a
 preliminary announcement of any such program not later than December 1 of
 the calendar year preceding the year in which the crop is harvested (or,
 for the 1992 crop, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of
 this subparagraph). The preliminary announcement shall include, among other
 information determined necessary by the Secretary, an announcement of the
 uniform percentage reduction in the rice crop acreage base described in
 paragraph (2)(A).
 `(ii) FINAL ANNOUNCEMENT- Not later than January 31 of the calendar year in
 which the crop is harvested, the Secretary shall make a final announcement
 of the program. The announcement shall include, among other information
 determined necessary by the Secretary, an announcement of the uniform
 percentage reduction in the rice crop described in paragraph (2)(A).'.
SEC. 105. CORN AND SORGHUM BASES.
 Section 105B(e)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1444f(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end
 the following new subparagraph:
 `(H) CORN AND SORGHUM BASES- Notwithstanding any other provision of this
 Act, with respect to each of the 1992 through 1995 crops of corn and grain
 sorghums--
 `(i) the Secretary shall combine the permitted acreages established under
 subparagraph (D) for a farm for a crop year for corn and grain sorghums;
 `(ii) for each crop year, the sum of the acreage planted and considered
 planted to corn and grain sorghum, as determined by the Secretary under this
 section and title V, shall be prorated to corn and grain sorghum based on
 the ratio of the crop acreage base for the individual crop of corn or grain
 sorghum, as applicable, to the sum of the crop acreage bases for corn and
 grain sorghum established for each crop year; and
 `(iii) for each crop year, the sum of the corn and grain sorghum payment
 acres, as determined under subsection (c), shall be prorated to corn and grain
 sorghum based on the ratio of the maximum payment acres for the individual
 crop of corn or grain sorghum, as applicable, to the sum of the maximum
 payment acres for corn and grain sorghum established for each crop year.'.
SEC. 106. COVER CROPS ON REDUCED ACREAGE.
 (a) RICE- Clause (i) of section 101B(e)(4)(B) (7 U.S.C. 1441-2(e)(4)(B)(i))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) REQUIRED-
 `(I) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subclause (II) and paragraph (2),
 a producer who participates in an acreage reduction program established
 for a crop of rice under this subsection shall be required to plant to,
 or maintain as, an annual or perennial cover 50 percent (or more at the
 option of the producer) of the acreage that is required to be removed from
 the production of rice, but not to exceed 5 percent (or more at the option
 of the producer) of the crop acreage base established for the crop.
 `(II) ARID AREAS- Subclause (I) shall not apply with respect to arid areas
 (including summer fallow areas), as determined by the Secretary. If the
 Secretary determines any county in a State to be arid, the respective
 State committee established under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and
 Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) may designate any other county
 or counties or all of the State as arid for the purposes of this paragraph.
 `(III) APPROVAL OF COVER CROPS AND PRACTICES- The State committee,
 after receiving recommendations from the county committees, shall approve
 appropriate crops planted or maintained as cover, including, as appropriate,
 annual or perennial native grasses and legumes or other vegetation. The
 State committee shall establish the final seeding date for the planting of
 the cover and shall approve appropriate cover crops or practices, after
 consulting the Soil Conservation Service State Conservationist regarding
 whether the crops or practices will sufficiently protect the land from
 weeds and wind and water erosion. After the Secretary establishes the
 State technical committee for the State pursuant to section 1261 of the
 Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861), the State committee shall
 consult with the technical committee (rather than the Soil Conservation
 Service State Conservationist) regarding whether the crops or practices
 will sufficiently protect the land from weeds and wind and water erosion.'.
 (b) COTTON- Clause (i) of section 103B(e)(4)(B) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(e)(4)(B)(i))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) Required-
 `(I) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subclause (II) and paragraph (2), a
 producer who participates in an acreage reduction program established for a
 crop of upland cotton under this subsection shall be required to plant to,
 or maintain as, an annual or perennial cover 50 percent (or more at the
 option of the producer) of the acreage that is required to be removed from
 the production of upland cotton, but not to exceed 5 percent (or more at
 the option of the producer) of the crop acreage base established for the crop.
 `(II) ARID AREAS- Subclause (I) shall not apply with respect to arid areas
 (including summer fallow areas), as determined by the Secretary. If the
 Secretary determines any county in a State to be arid, the respective
 State committee established under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and
 Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) may designate any other county
 or counties or all of the State as arid for the purposes of this paragraph.
 `(III) APPROVAL OF COVER CROPS AND PRACTICES- The State committee,
 after receiving recommendations from the county committees, shall approve
 appropriate crops planted or maintained as cover, including, as appropriate,
 annual or perennial native grasses and legumes or other vegetation. The
 State committee shall establish the final seeding date for the planting of
 the cover and shall approve appropriate cover crops or practices, after
 consulting the Soil Conservation Service State Conservationist regarding
 whether the crops or practices will sufficiently protect the land from
 weeds and wind and water erosion. After the Secretary establishes the
 State technical committee for the State pursuant to section 1261 of the
 Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861), the State committee shall
 consult with the technical committee (rather than the Soil Conservation
 Service State Conservationist) regarding whether the crops or practices
 will sufficiently protect the land from weeds and wind and water erosion.'.
 (c) FEED GRAINS- Clause (i) of section 105B(e)(4)(B) (7
 U.S.C. 1444f(e)(4)(B)(i)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) REQUIRED-
 `(I) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subclause (II) and paragraph (2),
 a producer who participates in an acreage reduction program established for
 a crop of feed grains under this subsection shall be required to plant to,
 or maintain as, an annual or perennial cover 50 percent (or more at the
 option of the producer) of the acreage that is required to be removed from
 the production of feed grains, but not to exceed 5 percent (or more at the
 option of the producer) of the crop acreage base established for the crop.
 `(II) ARID AREAS- Subclause (I) shall not apply with respect to arid areas
 (including summer fallow areas), as determined by the Secretary. If the
 Secretary determines any county in a State to be arid, the respective
 State committee established under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and
 Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) may designate any other county
 or counties or all of the State as arid for the purposes of this paragraph.
 `(III) APPROVAL OF COVER CROPS AND PRACTICES- The State committee,
 after receiving recommendations from the county committees, shall approve
 appropriate crops planted or maintained as cover, including, as appropriate,
 annual or perennial native grasses and legumes or other vegetation. The
 State committee shall establish the final seeding date for the planting of
 the cover and shall approve appropriate cover crops or practices, after
 consulting the Soil Conservation Service State Conservationist regarding
 whether the crops or practices will sufficiently protect the land from
 weeds and wind and water erosion. After the Secretary establishes the
 State technical committee for the State pursuant to section 1261 of the
 Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861), the State committee shall
 consult with the technical committee (rather than the Soil Conservation
 Service State Conservationist) regarding whether the crops or practices
 will sufficiently protect the land from weeds and wind and water erosion.'.
 (d) WHEAT- Clause (i) of section 107B(e)(4)(B) (7 U.S.C. 1445b-3a(e)(4)(B)(i))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) REQUIRED-
 `(I) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subclause (II) and paragraph (2),
 a producer who participates in an acreage reduction program established
 for a crop of wheat under this subsection shall be required to plant to,
 or maintain as, an annual or perennial cover 50 percent (or more at the
 option of the producer) of the acreage that is required to be removed from
 the production of wheat, but not to exceed 5 percent (or more at the option
 of the producer) of the crop acreage base established for the crop.
 `(II) ARID AREAS- Subclause (I) shall not apply with respect to arid areas
 (including summer fallow areas), as determined by the Secretary. If the
 Secretary determines any county in a State to be arid, the respective
 State committee established under section 8(b) of the Soil Conservation and
 Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b)) may designate any other county
 or counties or all of the State as arid for the purposes of this paragraph.
 `(III) APPROVAL OF COVER CROPS AND PRACTICES- The State committee,
 after receiving recommendations from the county committees, shall approve
 appropriate crops planted or maintained as cover, including, as appropriate,
 annual or perennial native grasses and legumes or other vegetation. The
 State committee shall establish the final seeding date for the planting of
 the cover and shall approve appropriate cover crops or practices, after
 consulting the Soil Conservation Service State Conservationist regarding
 whether the crops or practices will sufficiently protect the land from
 weeds and wind and water erosion. After the Secretary establishes the
 State technical committee for the State pursuant to section 1261 of the
 Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3861), the State committee shall
 consult with the technical committee (rather than the Soil Conservation
 Service State Conservationist) regarding whether the crops or practices
 will sufficiently protect the land from weeds and wind and water erosion.'.
SEC. 107. COTTON USER MARKETING CERTIFICATES.
 (a) ISSUANCE- Section 103B(a)(5)(E) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(a)(5)(E)) is amended--
 (1) by striking clause (i) and inserting the following new clause:
 `(i) ISSUANCE- Subject to clause (iv), during the period beginning August
 1, 1991, and ending July 31, 1996, the Secretary shall issue marketing
 certificates or cash payments to domestic users and exporters for documented
 purchases by domestic users and sales for export by exporters made in the
 week following a consecutive 4-week period in which--
 `(I) the Friday through Thursday average price quotation for the lowest-priced
 United States growth, as quoted for Middling (M) one and three-thirty seconds
 inch cotton, delivered C.I.F. Northern Europe exceeds the Northern Europe
 price by more than 1.25 cents per pound; and
 `(II) the prevailing world market price for upland cotton (adjusted to
 United States quality and location), established under subparagraph (C),
 does not exceed 130 percent of the current crop year loan level for the
 base quality of upland cotton, as determined by the Secretary.';
 (2) in clause (ii), by striking `marketing certificates' and inserting
 `marketing certificates or cash payments'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(iv) EXCEPTION- The Secretary shall not issue marketing certificates or
 cash payments under clause (i) if, for the immediately preceding consecutive
 10-week period, the Friday through Thursday average price quotation for
 the lowest priced United States growth, as quoted for Middling (M) one
 and three-thirty seconds inch cotton, delivered C.I.F. Northern Europe,
 adjusted for the value of any certificate issued under this subparagraph,
 exceeds the Northern Europe price by more than 1.25 cents per pound.'.
 (b) PREVAILING WORLD MARKET PRICE- Section 103B(a)(5)(C)(ii) (7
 U.S.C. 1444-2(a)(5)(C)(ii)) is amended by striking `and (B)' and inserting `,
 (B), and (E)'.
SEC. 108. MALTING BARLEY.
 Section 105B (7 U.S.C. 1444f) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (e)(2)(G), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `The Secretary shall make an annual determination of whether to exempt such
 producers from compliance with any acreage limitation under this paragraph
 and shall announce such determination in the Federal Register.'; and
 (2) by striking subsection (p) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(p) MALTING BARLEY-
 `(1) ASSESSMENT REQUIRED- In order to help offset costs associated with
 deficiency payments made available under this section to producers of barley,
 the Secretary shall provide for an assessment for each of the 1991 through
 1995 crop years to be levied on any producer of malting barley produced
 on a farm that is enrolled for the crop year in the production adjustment
 program under this section. The Secretary shall establish such assessment
 at not more than 5 percent of the value of the malting barley produced on
 program payment acres on the farm during each of the 1991 through 1995 crop
 years. The production per acre on which the assessment is based shall not
 be greater than the farm program payment yield.
 `(2) VALUE OF MALTING BARLEY- The Secretary may establish the value of such
 malting barley at the lesser of the State or national weighted average market
 price received by producers of malting barley for the first 5 months of
 the marketing year. In calculating the State or national weighted average
 market price, the Secretary may exclude the value of malting barley that
 is contracted for sale by producers prior to planting.
 `(3) EXCEPTION TO ASSESSMENT- In counties where malting barley is produced,
 participating barley producers may certify to the Secretary prior to
 computation of final deficiency payments that part or all of the producer's
 production was (or will be) sold or used for nonmalting purposes. The
 portion certified as sold or used for nonmalting purposes shall not be
 subject to the assessment. The Secretary may require producers to provide
 to the Secretary such documentation as the Secretary considers appropriate
 to carry out this paragraph.'.
SEC. 109. DEFICIENCY PAYMENTS FOR WHEAT, BARLEY, AND OATS.
 Section 114(c) (7 U.S.C. 1445j(c)) is amended--
 (1) in the material preceding the paragraphs, by striking `sections' and
 inserting `section';
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
 (3) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) With respect to feed grains (excluding barley and oats), 75 percent of
 the final projected deficiency payment for the crop, reduced by the amount
 of the advance, shall be made available as soon as practicable after the
 end of the first 5 months of the applicable marketing year.
 `(3) With respect to wheat, barley, and oats, the final projected deficiency
 payment for the crop, reduced by the amount of the advance, shall be made
 available as soon as practicable after the end of the first 5 months of
 the applicable marketing year. Such projected payment shall be based on
 the national weighted average market price received by producers during
 the first 5 months of the marketing year for the crop, as determined by
 the Secretary, plus 10 cents per bushel with respect to wheat or 7 cents
 per bushel with respect to barley and oats.'.
SEC. 110. MINOR OILSEED LOAN RATES.
 Section 205(c) (7 U.S.C. 1446f(c)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by striking `flaxseed' and inserting `flaxseed,
 individually,';
 (2) in paragraph (3), by striking `that, in the case of cottonseed, in no
 event less' and inserting `in no event shall the level for such oilseeds
 (other than cottonseed) be less'; and
 (3) by adding after and below paragraph (3) the following new sentence:
`To ensure that producers have an equitable opportunity to produce an
alternative crop in areas of limited crop options, the Secretary may limit,
insofar as practicable, adjustments in the loan rate established under
paragraph (2) applicable to a particular region, State, or county for the
purpose of reflecting transportation differentials such that the regional,
State, or county loan rate does not increase or decrease by more than 9
percent from the basic national loan rate.'.
SEC. 111. SUGAR.
 (a) SUGAR PRICE SUPPORT AND MARKETING ASSESSMENTS- Section 206 (7
 U.S.C. 1446g) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (e), by striking `announce the loan rate' and inserting
 `announce the basic loan rates for beet sugar and cane sugar';
 (2) in subsection (f), by striking `Loans' and inserting `Except as provided
 in subsection (g), loans';
 (3) by striking subsection (g) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(g) SUPPLEMENTARY NONRECOURSE LOANS- The Secretary shall make available to
 eligible processors price support loans with respect to sugar processed from
 sugar beets and sugarcane harvested in the last 3 months of a fiscal year.
 Such loans shall mature at the end of the fiscal year.  The processor may
 repledge the sugar as collateral for a price support loan in the subsequent
 fiscal year, except that the second loan shall--
 `(1) be made at the loan rate in effect at the time the second loan is
 made; and
 `(2) mature in 9 months less the quantity of time that the first loan was
 in effect.'; and
 (4) in subsection (i)--
 (A) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) and inserting the following
 new paragraphs:
 `(1) SUGARCANE- Effective only for marketings of raw cane sugar during the
 1992 through 1996 fiscal years, the first processor of sugarcane shall remit
 to the Commodity Credit Corporation a nonrefundable marketing assessment
 in an amount equal to .18 cents per pound of raw cane sugar, processed by
 the processor from domestically produced sugarcane or sugarcane molasses,
 that has been marketed (including the transfer or delivery of the sugar to
 a refinery for further processing or marketing).
 `(2) SUGAR BEETS- Effective only for marketings of beet sugar during the 1992
 through 1996 fiscal years, the first processor of sugar beets shall remit
 to the Commodity Credit Corporation a nonrefundable marketing assessment
 in an amount equal to .193 cents per pound of beet sugar, processed by the
 processor from domestically produced sugar beets or sugar beet molasses,
 that has been marketed.
 `(3) COLLECTION-
 `(A) TIMING- Marketing assessments required under this subsection shall be
 collected on a monthly basis and shall be remitted to the Commodity Credit
 Corporation within 30 days after the end of each month.  Any cane sugar
 or beet sugar processed during a fiscal year that has not been marketed by
 September 30 of that year shall be subject to assessment on that date. The
 sugar shall not be subject to a second assessment at the time that it
 is marketed.
 `(B) MANNER- Subject to subparagraph (A), marketing assessments shall be
 collected under this subsection in the manner prescribed by the Secretary
 and shall be nonrefundable.'; and
 (B) in paragraph (4), by striking `collect or remit the reduction' and
 inserting `remit the assessment'.
 (b) SECURITY INTERESTS- Subsection (b) of section 405 (7 U.S.C. 1425)
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) SUGARCANE AND SUGAR BEETS- The security interests obtained by the
 Commodity Credit Corporation as a result of the execution of security
 agreements by the processors of sugarcane and sugar beets shall be superior
 to all statutory and common law liens on raw cane sugar and refined beet
 sugar in favor of the producers of sugarcane and sugar beets and all prior
 recorded and unrecorded liens on the crops of sugarcane and sugar beets
 from which the sugar was derived.  The preceding sentence shall not affect
 the application of section 401(e)(2).'.
 (c) SUGAR INFORMATION REPORTING- Section 359a of the Agricultural Adjustment
 Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359aa) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(a) DUTY OF PROCESSORS, REFINERS AND MANUFACTURERS TO REPORT-
 `(1) PROCESSORS AND REFINERS- All sugarcane processors, cane sugar refiners,
 and sugar beet processors shall furnish the Secretary, on a monthly basis,
 such information as the Secretary may require to administer sugar programs,
 including the quantity of purchases of sugarcane, sugar beets, and sugar,
 and production, importation, distribution, and stock levels of sugar.
 `(2) MANUFACTURERS OF CRYSTALLINE FRUCTOSE- All manufacturers of crystalline
 fructose from corn (hereafter in this part referred to as `crystalline
 fructose') shall furnish the Secretary, on a monthly basis, such information
 as the Secretary may require with respect to the manufacturer's distribution
 of crystalline fructose.';
 (2) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d),
 respectively;
 (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) DUTY OF PRODUCERS TO REPORT- The Secretary may require a producer
 of sugarcane or sugar beets to report, in the manner prescribed by the
 Secretary, the producer's sugarcane or sugar beet yields and acres planted
 to sugarcane or sugar beets, respectively.'; and
 (4) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (2))--
 (A) by striking `data on imports,' and inserting `data on production,
 imports,'; and
 (B) by inserting `composite data on distributions of' after `sugar and'.
 (d) MARKETING ALLOTMENTS FOR SUGAR AND CRYSTALLINE FRUCTOSE- Section 359b
 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359bb) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(a) SUGAR ESTIMATES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Before the beginning of each of the fiscal years 1992
 through 1996, the Secretary shall estimate--
 `(A) the quantity of sugar that will be consumed in the United States
 during the fiscal year (other than sugar imported for the production of
 polyhydric alcohol or to be refined and reexported in refined form or in
 sugar containing products) and the quantity of sugar that would provide
 for reasonable carryover stocks;
 `(B) the quantity of sugar that will be available from carry-in stocks or
 from domestically-produced sugarcane and sugar beets for consumption in
 the United States during the year; and
 `(C) the quantity of sugar that will be imported for consumption in the
 United States during the year (other than sugar imported for the production
 of polyhydric alcohol or to be refined and reexported in a refined form or
 in sugar containing products), based on the difference between--
 `(i) the sum of the quantity of estimated consumption and reasonable
 carryover stocks; and
 `(ii) the quantity of sugar estimated to be available from
 domestically-produced sugarcane and sugar beets and from carry-in stocks.
 `(2) QUARTERLY REESTIMATES- The Secretary shall make quarterly reestimates
 of sugar consumption, stocks, production, and imports for a fiscal year no
 later than the beginning of each of the second through fourth quarters of
 the fiscal year.';
 (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(b) SUGAR ALLOTMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For any fiscal year in which the Secretary estimates, under
 subsection (a)(1)(C), that imports of sugar for consumption in the United
 States (other than sugar imported for the production of polyhydric alcohol
 or to be refined and reexported in refined form or in sugar containing
 products) will be less than 1,250,000 short tons, raw value, the Secretary
 shall establish for that year appropriate allotments under section 359c for
 the marketing by processors of sugar processed from domestically-produced
 sugarcane and sugar beets, at a level that the Secretary estimates will
 result in imports of sugar of not less than 1,250,000 short tons, raw value,
 for that year.
 `(2) PRODUCTS- The Secretary may include sugar products, whose majority
 content is sucrose or crystalline fructose for human consumption, derived from
 sugarcane, sugar beets, molasses or sugar in the allotments under paragraph
 (1) if the Secretary determines it to be appropriate for purposes of this
 part.'; and
 (3) in subsection (d)(4), by inserting after `the United States' the
 following: `(including, with respect to any integrated processor and refiner,
 the movement of raw cane sugar into the refining process)'.
 (e) ESTABLISHMENT OF MARKETING ALLOTMENTS- Section 359c of the Agricultural
 Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359cc) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
 (A) by striking `from the estimated sugar consumption' and inserting `from
 the sum of the estimated sugar consumption and reasonable carryover stocks
 (at the end of the fiscal year)'; and
 (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking `(representing minimum imports of
 sugar for consumption in the United States during the fiscal year)';
 (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking `prevent the accumulation of sugar
 acquired by' and inserting `avoid the forfeiture of sugar to';
 (3) in subsection (f)--
 (A) in the subsection heading, by striking `SUGARCANE ALLOTMENT' and inserting
 `CANE SUGAR ALLOTMENTS'; and
 (B) by striking `allotted among the 5 States in the United States in which
 sugarcane is produced' and inserting `allotted, among the 5 States in the
 United States in which sugarcane is produced,';
 (4) in subsection (g)--
 (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraph:
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall, based on reestimates under section
 359b(a)(2)--
 `(A) adjust upward or downward marketing allotments established under
 subsections (a) through (f) in a fair and equitable manner;
 `(B) establish marketing allotments for the fiscal year or any portion of
 such fiscal year; or
 `(C) suspend the allotments,
as the Secretary determines appropriate, to reflect changes in estimated
sugar consumption, stocks, production, or imports.'.
 (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following new paragraph:
 `(3) REDUCTIONS- Whenever a marketing allotment for a fiscal year is required
 to be reduced during the fiscal year under this subsection, if the quantity
 of sugar marketed, including sugar pledged as collateral for a price support
 loan under section 206 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446g),
 for the fiscal year at the time of the reduction by any individual processor
 covered by the allotment exceeds the processor's reduced allocation, the
 allocation of an allotment, if any, next established for the processor
 shall be reduced by the quantity of the excess sugar marketed.'; and
 (5) by striking subsection (h) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(h) FILLING CANE SUGAR AND BEET SUGAR ALLOTMENTS- Each marketing allotment
 for cane sugar established under this section may only be filled with sugar
 processed from domestically grown sugarcane, and each marketing allotment
 for beet sugar established under this section may only be filled with sugar
 processed from domestically grown sugar beets.'.
 (f) ALLOCATION OF MARKETING ALLOTMENTS- Section 359d of the Agricultural
 Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359dd) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2) by striking `after such hearing' both places
 it appears and inserting `after a hearing, if requested by interested
 parties,'; and
 (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection:
 `(b) FILLING CANE SUGAR ALLOTMENTS- Except as otherwise provided in section
 359e, a State cane sugar allotment established under section 359c(f) for
 a fiscal year may be filled only with sugar processed from sugarcane grown
 in the State covered by the allotment.'.
 (g) REASSIGNMENTS OF DEFICITS- Section 359e of the Agricultural Adjustment
 Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359ee) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 359e. REASSIGNMENT OF DEFICITS.
 `(a) ESTIMATES OF DEFICITS- At any time allotments are in effect under
 this part, the Secretary, from time to time, shall determine whether (in
 view of then-current inventories of sugar, the estimated production of
 sugar and expected marketings, and other pertinent factors) any processor
 of sugarcane will be unable to market the sugar covered by the portion of
 the State cane sugar allotment allocated to the processor and whether any
 processor of sugar beets will be unable to market sugar covered by the
 portion of the beet sugar allotment allocated to the processor.
 `(b) REASSIGNMENT OF DEFICITS-
 `(1) CANE SUGAR- If the Secretary determines that any sugarcane processor
 who has been allocated a share of a State cane sugar allotment will be
 unable to market the processor's allocation of the State's allotment for
 the fiscal year--
 `(A) the Secretary first shall reassign the estimated quantity of the deficit
 to the allocations for other processors within that State, depending on the
 capacity of each other processor to fill the portion of the deficit to be
 assigned to it and taking into account the interests of producers served
 by the processors;
 `(B) if after the reassignments the deficit cannot be completely
 eliminated, the Secretary shall reassign the estimated quantity of the
 deficit proportionately to the allotments for other cane sugar States,
 depending on the capacity of each other State to fill the portion of the
 deficit to be assigned to it, with the reassigned quantity to each State to
 be allocated among processors in that State in proportion to the allocations
 of the processors; and
 `(C) if after the reassignments, the deficit cannot be completely eliminated,
 the Secretary shall reassign the remainder to imports.
 `(2) BEET SUGAR- If the Secretary determines that a sugar beet processor
 who has been allocated a share of the beet sugar allotment will be unable
 to market that allocation--
 `(A) the Secretary first shall reassign the estimated quantity of the
 deficit to the allotments for other sugar beet processors, depending on the
 capacity of each other processor to fill the portion of the deficit to be
 assigned to it and taking into account the interests of producers served
 by the processors; and
 `(B) if after the reassignments, the deficit cannot be completely eliminated,
 the Secretary shall reassign the remainder to imports.
 `(3) CORRESPONDING INCREASE- The allocation of each processor receiving
 a reassigned quantity of an allotment under this subsection for a fiscal
 year shall be increased to reflect the reassignment.'.
 (h) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO PRODUCERS- Section 359f(b) of the Agricultural
 Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359ff(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking `250 producers in such State' and
 inserting `250 sugarcane producers in the State (other than Puerto Rico)';
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `establish proportionate shares for
 the crop of sugarcane that is harvested during' and inserting `establish a
 proportionate share for each sugarcane-producing farm that limits the acreage
 of sugarcane that may be harvested on the farm for sugar or seed during'; and
 (3) by striking paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) and inserting the following
 new paragraphs:
 `(3) METHOD OF DETERMINING- For purposes of determining proportionate shares
 for any crop of sugarcane:
 `(A) The Secretary shall establish the State's per-acre yield goal for a
 crop of sugarcane at a level (not less than the average per-acre yield in
 the State for the preceding 5 years, as determined by the Secretary) that
 will ensure an adequate net return per pound to producers in the State,
 taking into consideration any available production research data that the
 Secretary considers relevant.
 `(B) The Secretary shall adjust the per-acre yield goal by the average
 recovery rate of sugar produced from sugarcane by processors in the State.
 `(C) The Secretary shall convert the State allotment for the fiscal year
 involved into a State acreage allotment for the crop by dividing the State
 allotment by the per-acre yield goal for the State, as established under
 subparagraph (A) and as further adjusted under subparagraph (B).
 `(D) The Secretary shall establish a uniform reduction percentage for the
 crop by dividing the State acreage allotment, as determined for the crop
 under subparagraph (C), by the sum of all adjusted acreage bases in the
 State, as determined by the Secretary.
 `(E) The uniform reduction percentage for the crop, as determined
 under subparagraph (D), shall be applied to the acreage base for each
 sugarcane-producing farm in the State to determine the farm's proportionate
 share of sugarcane acreage that may be harvested for sugar or seed.
 `(4) ACREAGE BASE- For purposes of this subsection, the acreage base for each
 sugarcane-producing farm shall be determined by the Secretary, as follows:
 `(A) The acreage base for any farm shall be the number of acres that is
 equal to the average of the acreage planted and considered planted for
 harvest for sugar or seed on the farm in each of the 5 crop years preceding
 the fiscal year the proportionate share will be in effect.
 `(B) Acreage planted to sugarcane that producers on a farm were unable to
 harvest to sugarcane for sugar or seed because of drought, flood, other
 natural disaster, or other condition beyond the control of the producers
 may be considered as harvested for the production of sugar or seed for
 purposes of this paragraph.
 `(5) VIOLATION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Whenever proportionate shares are in effect in a State for
 a crop of sugarcane, producers on a farm shall not knowingly harvest, or
 allow to be harvested, for sugar or seed an acreage of sugarcane in excess
 of the farm's proportionate share for the fiscal year, or otherwise violate
 proportionate share regulations issued by the Secretary under section 359h(a).
 `(B) CIVIL PENALTY- Any producer who violates subparagraph (A) shall be liable
 to the Commodity Credit Corporation for a civil penalty in an amount equal to
 3 times the United States market value, at the time of the commission of the
 violation, of the quantity of sugar produced from that quantity of sugarcane
 involved in the violation. The quantity of sugarcane involved shall be
 determined based on the per-acre yield goal established under paragraph (3).'.
 (i) SPECIAL RULES- Section 359g of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938
 (7 U.S.C. 1359gg) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following new
 subsections:
 `(a) TRANSFER OF ACREAGE BASE HISTORY- For the purpose of establishing
 proportionate shares for sugarcane farms under section 359f, the Secretary,
 on application of any producer, with the written consent of all owners of
 a farm, may transfer the acreage base history of the farm  to any other
 parcels of land of the applicant.
 `(b) PRESERVATION OF ACREAGE BASE HISTORY- If for reasons beyond the
 control of a producer on a farm, the producer is unable to harvest an
 acreage of sugarcane for sugar or seed with respect to all or a portion of
 the proportionate share established for the farm under section 359f, the
 Secretary, on the application of the producer and with the written consent
 of all owners of the farm, may preserve for a period of not more than 3
 consecutive years the acreage base history of the farm to the extent of the
 proportionate share involved. The Secretary may permit the proportionate
 share to be redistributed to other farms, but no acreage base history for
 purposes of establishing acreage bases shall accrue to the other farms by
 virtue of the redistribution of the proportionate share.'; and
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by striking `hearing and'; and
 (B) by inserting `required to be' after `proportionate share was'.
 (j) REGULATIONS- Subsection (a) of section 359h of the Agricultural Adjustment
 Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359hh(a)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) REGULATIONS- The Secretary or the Commodity Credit Corporation, as
 appropriate, shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out
 the authority vested in the Secretary in administering this part.'; and
 (k) APPEALS- Paragraph (2) of section 359i(b) of the Agricultural Adjustment
 Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359ii(b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(2) HEARING- The Secretary shall provide each appellant an opportunity for
 a hearing before an administrative law judge in accordance with sections
 554 and 556 of title 5, United States Code.  The expenses for conducting
 the hearing shall be reimbursed by the Commodity Credit Corporation.'.
SEC. 112. CROP ACREAGE BASE.
 (a) ACREAGE CONSIDERED PLANTED- Section 503(c) (7 U.S.C. 1463(c)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (6) and (7) as paragraphs (7) and (8)
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (5) the following new paragraph:
 `(6) acreage in an amount not to exceed 20 percent of the crop acreage base
 for a crop of feed grains or wheat if--
 `(A) the acreage is planted to dry peas, (limited to Austrian peas, wrinkled,
 seed, green, yellow, and umatilla) and lentils; and
 `(B) payments are not received by producers under sections 105B(c)(1)(E)
 and 107B(c)(1)(E), as the case may be;'.
 (b) ADJUSTMENT OF BASES- Section 503(h) (7 U.S.C. 1463(h)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `BASES- The county' and inserting the following: `BASES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The county'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) RESTORATION OF CROP ACREAGE BASE-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- For the 1992 through 1995 crop years, the county committee
 shall allow an eligible producer to increase individual crop acreage bases
 on the farm, subject to subsection (a)(2), above the levels of base that
 would otherwise be established under this section, in order to restore
 the total of crop acreage bases on the farm for the 1992 through 1995 crop
 years to the same level as the total of crop acreage bases on the farm for
 the 1990 crop year.
 `(B) ELIGIBLE PRODUCER DEFINED- For the purposes of this paragraph, the
 term `eligible producer' means a producer of upland cotton or rice who,
 the appropriate county committee determines--
 `(i) was required to reduce one or more individual crop acreage bases on
 the farm during the 1991 crop year in order to comply with subsection (a)(2)
 and the change in the calculation of cotton and rice crop acreage bases to
 a 3-year formula as provided in this section; and
 `(ii) has participated in the price support program during the 1991 crop
 year and each subsequent crop year through the current crop year.
 `(C) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall issue regulations to carry out this
 paragraph.'.
 (c) PLANTING FLEXIBILITY- Section 504(b)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1464(b)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (C);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (D) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(E) mung beans.'.
SEC. 113. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO THE AGRICULTURAL ACT OF 1949.
 The Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) is further amended--
 (1) in section 101B(c)(1)(B) (7 U.S.C. 1441-2(c)(1)(B)), by redesignating
 the second clause (ii) as clause (iii);
 (2) in section 103B(a) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(a))--
 (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `upland cotton,' and inserting `upland
 cotton),'; and
 (B) in paragraph (3), by striking `the date of enactment of this Act'
 and inserting `November 28, 1990';
 (3) in section 103B(n)(1)(D) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(n)(1)(D)), by striking
 `effective date of the proclamation' and inserting `date the special quota
 is established by the Secretary';
 (4) in section 105B(c)(1)(B)(iii)(IV)(bb) (7
 U.S.C. 1444f(c)(1)(B)(iii)(IV)(bb)) by striking `(bb) BARLEY CALCULATIONS-
 ' and inserting `(bb) BARLEY CALCULATIONS- ';
 (5) in section 105B(g) (7 U.S.C. 1444f(g))--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by striking `subsection (d)' and inserting `subsection
 (e)'; and
 (B) in paragraph (6)(E), by striking `is' both places it appears and inserting
 `are';
 (6) in section 107B(g)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1445b-3a(g)(1)), by striking `subsection
 (d)' and inserting `subsection (e)';
 (7) in section 110 (7 U.S.C. 1445e)--
 (A) in subsection (n), by striking `the date of enactment of this section'
 and inserting `November 28, 1990';
 (B) by redesignating subsection (o) as subsection (p) and transferring such
 subsection to the end of the section; and
 (C) in the second subsection (k)--
 (i) by redesignating such subsection as subsection (o);
 (ii) by striking `(o) In' and inserting `(o) REVIEW- In'; and
 (iii) by striking `subsection (e)(1)' and inserting `this section';
 (8) in section 201 (7 U.S.C. 1446), by redesignating subsection (b)
 (as amended by section 1161(b)(3) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3521)) as subsection (c);
 (9) in section 202 (7 U.S.C. 1446a)--
 (A) by striking `Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' each place it appears
 and inserting `Secretary of Veterans Affairs'; and
 (B) by striking `Administrator' each place it appears and inserting
 `Secretary of Veterans Affairs';
 (10) in section 204(h)(3) (7 U.S.C. 1446e(h)(3)), by adding at the end
 the following new sentence: `A refund under this subsection shall not be
 considered as any type of price support or payment for purposes of sections
 1211 and 1221 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3811 and 3821).';
 (11) in section 406(b)(4) (7 U.S.C. 1426(b)(4)), by striking `the date of
 enactment of this subsection' and inserting `November 28, 1990,'; and
 (12) in section 426 (7 U.S.C. 1433e)--
 (A) in subsection (c)--
 (i) by striking `division' in paragraphs (1) and (6) and inserting
 `Division'; and
 (ii) by striking `subsection (e)' in paragraph (7) and inserting `subsection
 (f)';
 (B) in subsection (f), by striking `county or State' and inserting `State
 or county';
 (C) in subsection (g), by striking `County Committees' and inserting
 `county committees'; and
 (D) in subsection (h), by striking `section 8(e)' and inserting `section
 8(b)'.
SEC. 114. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS RELATING TO THE FOOD, AGRICULTURE,
CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT OF 1990.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3359) is amended--
 (1) in section 1124 (7 U.S.C. 1445e note; 104 Stat. 3506), by striking
 `warehouse' both places it appears and inserting `warehousemen';
 (2) in section 1156 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note), by striking subsection (b) and
 inserting the following new subsection:
 `(b) FUNDS- The Corporation shall expend such funds as may be required to
 conduct the pilot program for futures options contract trading in the manner
 specified in this subtitle and the regulations issued, and contracts entered
 into, to carry out this subtitle, except that funds of the Corporation may
 not be used to carry out this subtitle unless the Secretary, in the sole
 discretion of the Secretary, determines in advance that such funds shall
 be used for this purpose.';
 (3) in section 1353 (7 U.S.C. 1622 note; 104 Stat. 3567), by striking
 `et seq' and inserting `et seq.';
 (4) in section 2241 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3963)--
 (A) in subsection (a)(4)(A), by inserting `extra long staple cotton,' after
 `upland cotton,' each place it appears;
 (B) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting `extra long staple cotton,' after
 `upland cotton,'; and
 (C) in subsection (b)(4), by inserting `extra long staple cotton,' after
 `upland cotton,';
 (5) in section 2243(b)(2)(A) (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3966), by striking
 `to harvest' and inserting `for harvest';
 (6) in section 2249 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3972), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter' each place it appears;
 (7) in section 2250(b)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3973), by striking
 `cotton' and inserting `upland cotton, extra long staple cotton';
 (8) in section 2257 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3974), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter' each place it appears;
 (9) in section 2258 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3975), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter';
 (10) in section 2259 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3975), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter';
 (11) in section 2263 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3975), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter' each place it appears;
 (12) in section 2265 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3976), by striking
 `chapter' and inserting `subchapter';
 (13) in section 2266(a) (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3976), by striking
 `subchapter' and inserting `chapter';
 (14) in section 2267 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3976)--
 (A) in subsection (a), by striking `subchapter' and inserting `chapter'
 each place it appears; and
 (B) in subsection (b), by striking `chapter 1' and inserting `this chapter';
 (15) in section 2268(b) (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3976), by striking
 `subchapter' and inserting `chapter'; and
 (16) in section 2271 (7 U.S.C. 1421 note; 104 Stat. 3977), by striking
 `payment of' and inserting `payments or'.
 (b) PRICE SUPPORT FOR HIGH MOISTURE FEED GRAINS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 105B of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1444f)
 is amended--
 (A) by redesignating subsection (q) as subsection (r); and
 (B) by inserting after subsection (p) the following new subsection:
 `(q) Price Support for High Moisture Feed Grains-
 `(1) RECOURSE LOANS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, effective
 for each of the 1991 through 1995 crops of feed grains, the Secretary
 (through the Commodity Credit Corporation) shall make available recourse
 loans, as determined by the Secretary, to producers on a farm who--
 `(A) normally harvest all or a portion of their crop of feed grains in a high
 moisture state, hereinafter in this subsection defined as a feed grain having
 a moisture content in excess of Commodity Credit Corporation standards for
 loans made by the Secretary under paragraphs (1) and (6) of subsection (a);
 `(B)(i) present certified scale tickets from an inspected, certified
 commercial scale, including licensed warehouses, feedlots, feed mills,
 distilleries, or other similar entities approved by the Secretary, pursuant
 to regulations issued by the Secretary; or
 `(ii) present field or other physical measurements of the standing or stored
 feed grain crop in regions of the country, as determined by the Secretary,
 that do not have certified commercial scales from which certified scale
 tickets may be obtained within reasonable proximity of harvest operation;
 `(C) certify that they were the owners of the feed grain at the time of
 delivery to, and that the quantity to be placed under loan was in fact
 harvested on the farm and delivered to, a feedlot, feed mill, or commercial
 or on-farm high-moisture storage facility, or to such facilities maintained
 by the users of such high-moisture feed grain;
 `(D) comply with deadlines established by the Secretary for harvesting the
 feed grain and submit applications for loans within deadlines established
 by the Secretary; and
 `(E) participate in an acreage limitation program for the crop of feed
 grains established by the Secretary.
 `(2) ELIGIBILITY OF ACQUIRED FEED GRAINS- The loans shall be made on a
 quantity of feed grains of the same crop acquired by the producer equivalent
 to a quantity determined by multiplying--
 `(A) the acreage of the feed grain in a high moisture state harvested on
 the producer's farm; by
 `(B) the lower of the farm program payment yield or the actual yield on a
 field, as determined by the Secretary, that is similar to the field from
 which such high moisture feed grain was obtained.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 404 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 1444f-1) is repealed.
SEC. 115. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO THE AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT ACT.
 The Agricultural Adjustment Act (7 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), reenacted with
 amendments by the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, is amended--
 (1) in section 8b(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 608b(b)(2)), by striking `(7
 U.S.C. 1445c-2)' and inserting `(7 U.S.C. 1445c-3)'; and
 (2) in section 8c(5)(B)(ii) (7 U.S.C. 608c(5)(B)(ii)), is amended by striking
 `and,' before clause (f) and inserting `, and'.
SEC. 116. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO THE AGRICULTURAL ADJUSTMENT ACT OF 1938.
 The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 319(l) (7 U.S.C. 1314e(l))--
 (A) by inserting `in a State' after `one farm';
 (B) by striking `of Tennessee'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `This subsection shall
 apply only to the States of Tennessee and Virginia.';
 (2) in section 374(a) (7 U.S.C. 1374(a))--
 (A) by inserting after `30 inch rows' the following: `(or, at the option
 of those cotton producers who had an established practice of using 32 inch
 rows before the 1991 crop, 32 inch rows)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `For the 1992 through
 1995 crops, the rules establishing the requirements for eligibility for
 conserving use for payment acres shall be the same rules as were in effect
 for 1991 crops.'; and
 (3) in section 379(a) (7 U.S.C. 1379(a))--
 (A) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (4);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting `; or';
 (C) by striking `; or' at the end of paragraph (6) and inserting a period; and
 (D) by redesignating paragraph (7) as subsection (c), moving such subsection
 to appear after subsection (b), and conforming the left margin of such
 subsection to subsection (b).
SEC. 117. SECTION REDESIGNATION.
 (a) SECTION REDESIGNATION- Sections 359 and 359a of the Agricultural
 Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1359 and 1359a) are redesignated as sections
 358d and 358e, respectively.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AS RESULT OF REDESIGNATIONS-
 (1) PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM- The Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1421 et
 seq.) is amended--
 (A) in section 108A(3)(A) (7 U.S.C. 1445c-2(3)(A)), by striking `section 359'
 each place it appears and inserting `section 358d'; and
 (B) in section 108B(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1445c-3(c)(1)), by striking `sections
 359 and 359a' each place it appears and inserting `sections 358d and 358e'.
 (2) MARKETING QUOTAS- The Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1281
 et seq.) is amended--
 (A) in section 358(v)(3) (7 U.S.C. 1358(v)(3)), by striking `section 359(c)'
 and inserting `section 358d(c)';
 (B) in section 358-1(e)(3) (7 U.S.C. 1358-1(e)(3)), by striking `section
 359(c)' and inserting `section 358d(c)';
 (C) in section 358d (7 U.S.C. 1359), as redesignated by subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking `section 359(a)' in subsection (b) and inserting `subsection
 (a)'; and
 (ii) by striking `section 108B' each place it appears in subsections
 (m)(1)(C), (p)(1), and (r)(2)(A) and inserting `section 108A'; and
 (D) in section 358e(b)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1359a(b)(1)), as redesignated by
 subsection (a), by striking `section 359(c)' and inserting `section 358d(c)'.
SEC. 118. OTHER MISCELLANEOUS COMMODITY AMENDMENTS.
 (a) MISSING LANGUAGE- Section 5(i)(3) of the Agriculture and Consumer
 Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by striking `(42
 U.S.C. 1396d(5)))' and inserting `(42 U.S.C. 1396d(5))))'.
 (b) MISSING LANGUAGE- Section 1001(2)(B)(iv) of the Food Security Act of
 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1308(2)(B)(iv)) is amended by inserting `section' before
 `107B(c)(1)'.
 (c) EXTRA LANGUAGE- Section 1001A(a)(2) of the Food Security Act of 1985
 (7 U.S.C. 1308-1(a)(2)) is amended by striking `0 to'.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ACT OF 1962- Section 326 of the
 Food and Agriculture Act of 1962 (7 U.S.C. 1339a) is amended by adding at
 the end the following sentences: `The authority provided in this section
 shall be in addition to any other authority provided to the Secretary under
 any other Act.  This section shall be applicable to an action taken by a
 representative of the Secretary that occurs before, on, or after November 28,
 1990. This section shall not apply to a pattern of conduct where authorized
 representatives of the Secretary take actions or provide advice with respect
 to producers that the representatives and producers know are inconsistent
 with applicable laws and regulations.'.
 (e) AMENDMENT TO THE FOOD, AGRICULTURE, CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT OF 1990-
 Section 102(b)(1)(B) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
 of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 1446e-1(b)(1)(B)) is amended by striking `Commodity Credit
 Corporation' and inserting `Secretary'.
 (f) CLARIFICATION OF AMENDMENT- Section 704 of the National Wool Act of 1954
 (7 U.S.C. 1782) is amended by striking `sec.' and all that follows through `If
 payments' in the first sentence of subsection (a) and inserting the following:
`SEC. 704. PAYMENT AS MEANS OF PRICE SUPPORT.
 `(a) USE OF PAYMENTS- If payments'.
SEC. 119. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING IMPORTED BARLEY AND OATS.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) significant quantities of barley and oats are currently being imported
 into the United States from Norway, Sweden, and Finland origins, and there
 is reason to believe that such imports will continue in the future;
 (2) such imported barley and oats are being purchased at a price artificially
 established at a level significantly below that of domestically produced
 barley and oats due to unfair and predatory export subsidies and schemes
 employed by the exporting countries of origin; and
 (3) it is likely that the continued importation of such quantities of
 subsidized barley and oats will significantly and adversely affect producers
 of domestic barley and oats and impair the operations of existing farm
 commodity programs for barley and oats in the United States.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- Based on these findings, it is the sense of Congress
 that the Secretary of Agriculture and the President of the United States
 should immediately and aggressively employ all available options under
 existing laws, including those under section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment
 Act (7 U.S.C. 624), reenacted with amendments by the Agricultural Marketing
 Agreement Act of 1937, in order to prevent material damage to the producers
 of domestic barley and oats and to prevent material interference with the
 programs established pursuant to section 105B of the Agricultural Act of 1949
 (7 U.S.C. 1444f).
SEC. 120. COTTON CLASSING FEES.
 (a) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION- The first sentence of section 3a of the Cotton
 Statistics and Estimates Act (7 U.S.C. 473a) is amended to read as follows:
 `Effective for each of fiscal years 1992 through 1996, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall make cotton classification services available to producers
 of cotton and shall provide for the collection of classification fees from
 participating producers, or agents who voluntarily agree to collect and
 remit the fees on behalf of producers.'.
 (b) FEES- The first proviso in the second sentence of section 3a of such
 Act is amended--
 (1) by striking clauses (1) and (2) and inserting the following new clauses:
 `(1) the uniform per bale classification fee to be collected from producers,
 or their agents, for the classification service in any year shall be the fee
 established in the previous year for the prevailing method of classification
 service, exclusive of adjustments to the fee made in the previous year under
 clauses (2), (3), and (4), and as may be adjusted by the percentage change
 in the implicit price deflator for the gross national product as indexed
 during the most recent 12-month period for which statistics are available;
 (2) the fee calculated in accordance with clause (1) for a crop year may
 be increased by an amount not to exceed 1 percent for every 100,000 running
 bales, or portion thereof, that the Secretary estimates will be classed by the
 United States Department of Agriculture in the crop year below the level of
 12,500,000 running bales, or decreased by a quantity not to exceed 1 percent
 for every 100,000 running bales, or portion thereof, that the Secretary
 estimates will be classed by the United States Department of Agriculture
 in the crop year above the level of 12,500,000 running bales;'; and
 (2) by striking clause (7) and inserting the following new clause:  `(7)
 the Secretary shall announce the uniform classification fee and any surcharge
 for the crop not later than June 1 of the year in which the fee applies.'.
 (c) CLARIFICATION OF SERVICES- The third sentence of section 3a of such
 Act is amended to read as follows:  `Classification services, other than
 the prevailing method, provided at the request of the producer shall not
 be subject to the restrictions specified in clauses (1), (2), and (3)
 of the preceding sentence.'.
 (d) REPEAL OF STUDY ON PROCESSING CERTAIN COTTON GRADES- Section 3 of the
 Uniform Cotton Classing Fees Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 473a note) is repealed.
 (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsections (a), (b), and (c), and the amendments made
 by subsections (a), (b), and (c), shall be effective for the period beginning
 on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on September 30, 1996.
SEC. 121. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING TARGETED OPTION PAYMENTS.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (1) thousands of agricultural producers are facing extremely difficult
 economic times and low commodity prices;
 (2) the conditions on each farm are unique and require a unique plan to meet
 the income, conservation, and soil and weather conditions of the farm; and
 (3) agricultural producers need the maximum possible flexibility to tailor
 the agricultural price support and production adjustment program to their
 farms' individual needs.
 (b) SENSE OF CONGRESS- It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of
 Agriculture should offer targeted option payments for each of the 1992
 through 1995 crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice as
 authorized by sections 107B(e)(3), 105B(e)(3), 103B(e)(3), and 101B(e)(3)
 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1445b-3a(e)(3), 1444f(e)(3),
 1444-2(e)(3), and 1441-2(e)(3)), respectively.
SEC. 122. TRANSFER OF PEANUT QUOTA UNDERMARKETINGS.
 Section 358b(a) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358b(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by inserting `(including any applicable under marketings)' after `any
 part of the poundage quota'; and
 (B) by inserting `(including any applicable under marketings)' after `any
 such lease of poundage quota';
 (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (2), by striking `for the farm'
 and inserting `(including any applicable under marketings)'; and
 (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting after `farm poundage quota' the following:
 `(including any applicable undermarketings)'.
SEC. 123. COTTON FUTURES CONTRACTS.
 Subsection (c)(1) of the United States Cotton Futures Act (7 U.S.C. 15b(c)(1))
 is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: `,
 except that any cotton futures contract that, by its terms, is settled in
 cash is excluded from the coverage of this paragraph and Act'.
SEC. 124. LAMB PRICE AND SUPPLY REPORTING SERVICES REPORT AND SYSTEM.
 (a) REPORT- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit a report to the Committee on
 Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture,
 Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on measures that are necessary to
 improve the lamb price and supply reporting services of the Department of
 Agriculture, including recommendations to establish a complete information
 gathering system that reflects the market structure of the national lamb
 industry. In preparing the report, the Secretary shall examine measures to
 improve information on--
 (1) price reporting series of wholesale, retail, box, carcass, pelt, offal,
 and live lamb sales in the United States, including markets in--
 (A) California (including San Francisco);
 (B) the East Coast region (including Washington, D.C.);
 (C) the Midwest region (including Chicago, Illinois);
 (D) Texas;
 (E) the Rocky Mountain region; and
 (F) Florida;
 (2) sheep and lamb inventories, including on-feed reports;
 (3) the price and supply relationships between retailers and breakers;
 (4) the viability of voluntary or mandatory reporting for sheep prices; and
 (5) information on the import and export of sheep, analyzed by cut, carcass,
 box, breeder stock, and sex.
 (b) PRICE DISCOVERY AND REPORTING SYSTEM-
 (1) SYSTEM REQUIRED- Based on the report required under subsection (a),
 the Secretary shall--
 (A) develop a price discovery system formula for the lamb market, such as
 carcass equivalent pricing; and
 (B) establish a price discovery and reporting system for the lamb market to
 assist lamb producers to better allocate their resources and make informed
 production and marketing decisions.
 (2) IMPLEMENTATION- The price discovery and reporting system for the lamb
 market shall be implemented by the Secretary not later than 180 days after
 the date of the submission of the report.
 (3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to develop and establish the system required
 under this subsection.
 (c) CONSULTATION- In preparing the report required under subsection (a)
 and establishing the price discovery and reporting system required under
 subsection (b), the Secretary shall consult with lamb producers and other
 persons in the national lamb industry.
SEC. 125. COTTON FIRST HANDLER MARKETING CERTIFICATES.
 Section 103B(a)(5)(B) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(a)(5)(B)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `or cash payments' after `marketing certificates' each
 place it appears in clauses (i) and (ii); and
 (2) in clause (iii), by inserting `or cash payment' after `certificate'.
SEC. 126. PRODUCTION OF BLACK-EYED PEAS FOR DONATION.
 (a) 50/92 PROGRAM FOR COTTON- Section 103B(c)(1)(D) (7 U.S.C. 1444-2(c)(1)(D))
 is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(ix) BLACK-EYED PEAS FOR DONATION- The Secretary may permit, under such
 terms and conditions as will ensure optimum producer participation, all or
 any part of the acreage required to be devoted to conservation uses as a
 condition for qualifying for payments under this subparagraph to be devoted
 to the production of black-eyed peas if--
 `(I) the producer agrees to donate the harvested peas from the acreage to
 a food bank, food pantry, or soup kitchen (as defined in paragraphs (3),
 (4), and (7) of section 110(b) of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (7
 U.S.C. 612c note)) that is approved by the Secretary; and
 `(II) the Secretary finds that such action will not result in the disruption
 of normal channels of trade.'.
 (b) ACREAGE REDUCTION PROGRAM- Section 103B(e)(2) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 1444-2(e)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subparagraph:
 `(G) BLACK-EYED PEAS FOR DONATION- The Secretary may permit, under such terms
 and conditions as will ensure optimum producer participation, producers on
 a farm to plant black-eyed peas on not more than one-half of the reduced
 acreage on the farm if--
 `(i) the producer agrees to donate the harvested peas from such acreage to
 a food bank, food pantry, or soup kitchen (as defined in paragraphs (3),
 (4), and (7) of section 110(b) of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (7
 U.S.C. 612c note)) that is approved by the Secretary; and
 `(ii) the Secretary finds that such action will not result in the disruption
 of normal channels of trade.'.
SEC. 127. MILK PRICE SUPPORT PROGRAM LIMITED TO 48 CONTIGUOUS STATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 204 (7 U.S.C. 1446e) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `produced in the 48 contiguous States'
 after `the price of milk';
 (2) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting before the period the following:
 `produced in the 48 contiguous States';
 (3) in subsection (d)(5)(B), by striking `United States' both places it
 appears and inserting `48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia'; and
 (4) in subsections (g)(1) and (h)(1), by striking `United States' each
 place it appears and inserting `48 contiguous States'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section
 shall take effect as of January 1, 1991.
SEC. 128. MODIFICATION OF MILK PRODUCTION TERMINATION PROGRAM.
 (a) CERTAIN TRANSFERS AUTHORIZED- If the Secretary of Agriculture
 determines that a natural disaster renders unusable the land or milk
 production facilities of the producers on a farm, the Secretary shall allow
 the producers to transfer the production unit (including dairy animals and
 equipment) to a farm idled under the milk production termination program
 established under section 201(d)(3) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7
 U.S.C. 1446(d)(3)), without penalty, if the producers on the farm agree
 to comply with all terms and conditions of the program contract for the
 remainder of the contract period.
 (b) APPLICATION- This section shall apply with respect to any natural
 disaster occurring during the period beginning on October 1, 1990, and
 ending on February 1, 1991.
TITLE II--CONSERVATION
SEC. 201. AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD, AGRICULTURE, CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT
OF 1990.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1451- Section 1451 of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5822) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(1)(D), by striking `(e)' and inserting `(f)';
 (2) in subsection (d), by inserting `each of' before `the calendar';
 (3) in subsection (f)(5), by striking `assisting' and inserting `assist'; and
 (4) in subsection (h)(7)(B)--
 (A) in clause (i), by inserting before the period at the end of the first
 sentence the following: `, but only to the extent that such number exceeds
 the number of acres resulting from the reduction in payment acres under an
 amendment made by section 1101 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
 1990 (Public Law 101-508; 104 Stat. 1388-1)'; and
 (B) in clause (ii), by striking `under' and all that follows through
 `Agricultural' and inserting `under section 101B(c)(1)(D), 103B(c)(1)(D),
 105B(c)(1)(E), or 107B(c)(1)(E) of the Agricultural'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1466- Section 1466 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 4201 note)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c), by striking `Funds' and inserting `funds'; and
 (2) in each of subsections (e) and (f), by striking `section (b)' and
 inserting `subsection (b)'.
 (c) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 1468(a)(2)- Section 1468(a)(2) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 4201 note) is amended by striking `Funds' and inserting `funds'.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1473(a)- Section 1473(a) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 5403(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `subparagraph (B)' and inserting `paragraph
 (2)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `subparagraph (A)' and inserting `paragraph
 (1)'.
 (e) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 1483(c)- Section 1483(c) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 5503(c)) is amended by inserting `and' after `Animal'.
 (f) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 1485- Section 1485 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 5505)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `Administrator' both places it appears
 and inserting `Director';
 (2) in subsection (a)(3), by striking `Atmospheric Agency, the' ' and
 inserting `Atmospheric Administration, the'; and
 (3) in subsection (b)(3), by striking `subsection (a)' and inserting
 `this subsection'.
 (g) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1499- Section 1499 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 5506)
 is amended--
 (1) in the 4th sentence of subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting `Agricultural' before `Environmental'; and
 (B) by striking `1612' and inserting `1472';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `AFFECT' and inserting `EFFECT'; and
 (B) by inserting `and section 1499A' after `subsection (a)'; and
 (3) in subsection (c), by inserting `and' after `Animal'.
 (h) NEW SECTION-
 (1) EDUCATION PROGRAM- Such Act is amended by inserting after section 1499
 (7 U.S.C. 5506) the following new section:
`SEC. 1499A. EDUCATION PROGRAM REGARDING HANDLING OF AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS
AND AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL CONTAINERS.
 `Subject to the availability of funds appropriated in advance, the Secretary
 of Agriculture shall direct the Extension Service to operate a program in
 each State to catalogue the Federal, State, and local laws and regulations
 that govern the handling of unused or unwanted agricultural chemicals and
 agricultural chemical containers in the State. The program established under
 this section shall make available to producers of agricultural commodities
 and the general public, and provide on request, educational materials
 developed or collected by the program.'.
 (2) The table of contents in section 1(b) of such Act (104 Stat. 3363) is
 amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1499 the following
 new item:
`Sec. 1499A. Education program regarding handling of agricultural chemicals
and agricultural chemical containers.'.
SEC. 202. AMENDMENT TO THE SOIL CONSERVATION AND DOMESTIC ALLOTMENT ACT.
 The 14th sentence of the 5th undesignated paragraph of section 8(b)
 of the Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(b))
 is amended by inserting `, except that, in the case of a person elected
 to be a national officer or State president of the National Association of
 Farmer Elected Committeemen, the limitation shall be four consecutive terms'
 before the period.
SEC. 203. FARMS FOR THE FUTURE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Sections 1465 through 1469 of the Farms for the Future Act
 of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 4201 note) are amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 1465. SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE, AND DEFINITION.
 `(a) SHORT TITLE- This chapter may be cited as the `Farms for the Future
 Act of 1990'.
 `(b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this chapter to promote a national
 farmland protection effort to preserve our vital farmland resources for
 future generations.
 `(c) DEFINITIONS- As used in this chapter:
 `(1) ALLOWABLE INTEREST RATE- The term `allowable interest rate' refers
 to the interest rate that the State trust fund pays on each eligible loan
 (including the interest paid by the State trust fund, State, or State agency
 on bonds or other obligations described in paragraph (2)).
 `(2) ELIGIBLE LOAN- The term `eligible loan' means each loan made by lending
 institutions to each State trust fund, or to the State acting in conjunction
 with the State trust fund, to further the purposes of this chapter, and the
 proceeds from any issuance of obligations, or other bonded indebtedness,
 of any eligible State, the State trust fund, or any agency of an eligible
 State, except that no eligible loan shall bear an interest rate in excess
 of 10 percent per year.
 `(3) ELIGIBLE STATE- The term `eligible State' means--
 `(A) the State of Vermont; and
 `(B) at the option of the Secretary and subject to appropriations, any
 State that--
 `(i) operates or administers a land preservation fund that invests funds
 in the protection or preservation of farmland for agricultural purposes; and
 `(ii) works in coordination with the governing bodies of counties, towns,
 townships, villages, or other units of general government below the State
 level, or with private nonprofit or public organizations, to assist in the
 preservation of farmland for agricultural purposes.
 `(4) LENDING INSTITUTION- The term `lending institution' means any Federal
 or State chartered bank, savings and loan association, cooperative lending
 agency, other legally organized lending agency, State government or agency,
 political subdivision of a State, or any nonprofit conservation organization.
 `(5) PROGRAM- The term `program' means the farmland preservation program
 established under this chapter to be known as the `Agricultural Resource
 Conservation Demonstration Program'.
 `(6) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
 `(7) STATE- The term `State' means any State of the United States, the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands of the United States.
 `(8) STATE TRUST FUND- The term `State trust fund' means any trust fund or
 an account established by an eligible State, or other public instrumentality
 of the eligible State, where such eligible State is approved to participate
 by the Secretary in the program under application procedures set forth in
 section 1466(j) or 1468.
`SEC. 1466. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) PURPOSE- The Secretary shall establish and implement a program, to be
 known as the `Agricultural Resource Conservation Demonstration Program',
 to provide Federal guarantees and interest assistance for eligible loans
 described in section 1465(c)(2) made to, or issued for the benefit of,
 State trust funds.
 `(2) ASSISTANCE- Under the program the Secretary shall guarantee for a period
 of 10 years the timely payment of the principal amount and interest due on
 each eligible loan described in section 1465(c)(2) made to, or issued for
 the benefit of, State trust funds and shall for each such 10-year period
 subsidize the interest on such eligible loans at the allowable interest
 rate for the first 5 years after the loan is made, or issued, and at no less
 than 3 percentage points for the second 5 years under procedures described
 in subsection (b).
 `(b) MANDATORY ASSISTANCE TO EACH STATE TRUST FUND- The Secretary shall--
 `(1)  fully guarantee with the full faith and credit of the United States
 each eligible loan described in section 1465(c)(2) made to, or issued
 for the benefit of, each State trust fund under procedures established by
 the Secretary;
 `(2) annually pay to each State trust fund an amount calculated by applying
 the allowable interest rate to the amount of each loan described in section
 1465(c)(2) made to, or issued for the benefit of, each State trust fund
 during each of the first 5 years after the date on which each such loan
 was made or issued; and
 `(3) annually pay to each State trust fund, for each year during the second
 5-year period after each such eligible loan is made to, or issued for
 the benefit of, the State trust fund, an amount calculated by applying the
 interest rate difference, between the rate of interest charged to borrowers of
 direct loans as described in section 316(a)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and
 Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1946(a)(2)) and the allowable interest rate,
 to the amount of each such loan made to, or issued for the benefit of, the
 State trust fund, as determined under procedures established by the Secretary.
 `(c) FUNDING-
 `(1) ISSUANCE OF STOCK- The Secretary of Agriculture shall make and issue
 stock, in the same manner as notes are issued under section 309(c) or 309A(d)
 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1929(c) or
 1929a(d)), to the Secretary of the Treasury for the purpose of obtaining
 funds from the Secretary of the Treasury that are necessary for discharging
 the obligations of the Secretary of Agriculture under this chapter. The
 stock shall not pay dividends and shall not be redeemable.
 `(2) PURCHASE OF STOCK- The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide the
 funding necessary to implement this chapter. The Secretary of the  Treasury
 shall purchase any stock of the Secretary of Agriculture issued to implement
 this chapter. The Secretary of the Treasury shall use as a public debt
 transaction the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under chapter
 31 of title 31, United States Code. The purposes for which the securities may
 be issued under such chapter are extended to include the raising of funds
 to purchase stock issued by the Secretary of Agriculture to implement this
 chapter with respect to each eligible State. The Secretary of Agriculture
 shall make and issue such stock as is necessary to fund this chapter to the
 Secretary of the Treasury who shall promptly purchase the stock (within 60
 days) being offered by the Secretary of Agriculture.
 `(3) COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION- If the Secretary of Agriculture fails to
 issue stock as required under this chapter, or if funding is otherwise not
 provided as set forth in this chapter, for the eligible State described
 in section 1465(c)(3)(A), notwithstanding any other provision of law,
 the Secretary of Agriculture shall use the funds, services and facilities
 of the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out the requirements of this
 chapter. The procedure described in paragraph (2) shall be used to reimburse
 the Corporation for funds expended to carry out this paragraph.
 `(d) REQUIRED PURCHASES OF STOCK- The Secretary shall promptly notify
 the Secretary of the Treasury, in writing, each time an application of an
 eligible State is approved by the Secretary under this chapter. The Secretary
 of the Treasury shall promptly purchase stock (within 60 days) offered by
 the Secretary under subsection (c) and the Secretary of Agriculture shall
 deposit the proceeds from each such sale of stock in accounts created to
 administer the program.
 `(e) ENTITLEMENTS- The Secretary is entitled to receive funds, and shall
 receive funds, from the Secretary of the Treasury in an amount equal to the
 total par-value of the stock issued to the Secretary of the Treasury. Each
 State trust fund is entitled to receive, and the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall promptly pay to each such trust fund, amounts calculated under
 procedures described in subsection (b).
 `(f) REGULATIONS- Except regarding the eligible State described in section
 1465(c)(3)(A), the Secretary shall promulgate proposed and final regulations,
 under the prior public comment provisions of section 553 of title 5, United
 States Code, setting forth--
 `(1) the application procedures for eligible States;
 `(2) the factors to be used in approving applicants;
 `(3) procedures for the prompt payment of the obligations of the Secretary
 under subsection (b);
 `(4) recordkeeping requirements for approved State trust funds;
 `(5) requirements to prevent program abuse and procedures to recover
 improperly obtained funds;
 `(6) rules permitting State trust funds to act as revolving funds or
 to otherwise accumulate additional capital, based on investments, to be
 subsequently used to promote the purposes of this chapter; and
 `(7) any other rules necessary and appropriate to carry out the program.
 `(g) DURATION OF PROGRAM- The program established under this chapter shall
 expire on September 30, 1996, except that any financial obligations of the
 Secretary shall continue to be met as required by this chapter.
 `(h) ELIGIBLE USES FOR GUARANTEED LOAN FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Funds from eligible loans (including proceeds from the sale
 of bonds or other obligations described in section 1465(c)(2)) guaranteed
 under this chapter, and any earnings of the State trust funds, may be used--
 `(A) to purchase development rights, conservation easements or other types
 of easements, or to purchase agricultural land in fee simple or some lesser
 estate in land;
 `(B) to pay all reasonable and customary costs including appraisal, survey
 and engineering fees, and legal expenses;
 `(C) to pay the costs of enforcing easements or land use restrictions;
 `(D) to cover the costs of complying with any regulations issued by the
 Secretary under this program and the costs of implementing the farmland
 plan of operation, except that the guaranteed loan proceeds shall not be
 used to pay overhead expenses of the State trust fund (rent, utilities,
 salaries, wages, insurance premiums, and the like); and
 `(E) to generate earnings (including through investments not exceeding 10
 years in duration for each eligible loan), to be used for future farmland
 preservation efforts, through investments in direct obligations of the
 United States or obligations guaranteed by the United States or an agency
 thereof or by depositing funds in any member bank of the Federal Reserve
 System or any federally insured State nonmember bank.
 `(2) COLLATERAL FOR LOANS- To the extent consistent with relevant banking laws
 and practices, the investments or deposits described in paragraph (1)(E) may
 serve as collateral for loans made to, or on behalf of, the State trust fund.
 `(i) STATE USE OF GUARANTEED LOAN FUNDS- The Secretary may issue regulations
 or procedures requiring each State trust fund to report to the Secretary
 regarding the uses of the eligible loans (described in section 1465(c)(2))
 guaranteed by the Secretary and the Secretary may monitor the uses of the
 funds to ensure that the loans are used for purposes related to this chapter.
 Neither the Secretary or the lending institution shall have the power
 to require approval of each specific use of the loans guaranteed by the
 Secretary, the specific terms of each use of the loan funds, or the specific
 provisions of each purchase or investment made with loans guaranteed by the
 Secretary.  The Secretary may require that each State trust fund provide a
 State farmland preservation plan of operation to the Secretary setting forth
 the plans for administering the program in the State and may require each
 State trust fund to periodically report to the Secretary on the purchases
 of interests in farmland and on other specific uses of the funds.
 `(j) SPECIAL RULES FOR THE PILOT PROJECT STATE- Notwithstanding any other
 provisions of this chapter, the following special rules shall apply to the
 eligible State described in section 1465(c)(3)(A):
 `(1) PROVISION OF LOAN GUARANTEE AND INTEREST ASSISTANCE AGREEMENT-
 Within 30 days of the date any State trust fund in the eligible State
 receives a commitment for each eligible loan from a lending institution,
 the Secretary shall provide the lending institution with the loan guarantee
 and the interest assistance agreement so that the lending institution may
 disburse the full amount of the loan proceeds to the State trust fund on
 the date of loan closing to carry out this program.  After the loan closing,
 the lending institution shall have no obligation to monitor or approve the
 use of loan proceeds by the State trust fund.
 `(2) APPROVAL OF APPLICATION- The Secretary shall annually approve the
 completed application from the eligible State within 30 days after receipt
 if the application sets forth the general goals and policies of the State
 trust fund.  The Secretary shall provide the Federal assistance required
 under this chapter beginning on the date the application or plan is approved.
 `(3) AMOUNT OF GUARANTEES- The Secretary shall calculate the total amount
 of guarantees to be provided for fiscal year 1992 in an amount equal to
 double the sum of--
 `(A) the amount that was made available in fiscal year 1991 to the State
 trust fund (the Vermont Conservation and Housing Board regardless of whether
 the fund had been approved by the Secretary in fiscal year 1991), by the
 State described in section 1465(c)(3)(A), political subdivisions thereof,
 charitable organizations, private persons, or any other entity, in addition
 to the proceeds from the sale of obligations of the State related to the
 purposes of the State trust fund and the fair market value of donations of
 interests in land to the State trust fund; and
 `(B) the matching contribution calculated under section 1468(c) for fiscal
 year 1992 for the State.
 `(k) MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS-
 `(1) OPERATION- Each State trust fund may operate through nonprofit
 corporations, municipalities, or other political subdivisions of States in
 carrying out the purposes of the program established in this chapter.
 `(2) EARNINGS- Earnings on funds of each State trust fund may be used for
 any purposes related to carrying out the operations of the trust fund in
 a manner not inconsistent with the requirements of this chapter or the
 farmland preservation plan.
`SEC. 1467. FEDERAL ACCOUNTS AND COMPLIANCE.
 `(a) ACCOUNTS- To carry out the purposes of this chapter, the Secretary may
 establish in the Treasury of the United States an account, to be known as the
 `Agricultural Resource Conservation Revolving Fund' (hereafter referred to
 in this chapter as the `Fund'), for the use by the Secretary to meet the
 obligations of the Secretary under this chapter.
 `(b) COMPLIANCE- If the Secretary determines that any State trust fund
 is failing to comply, to a significant degree, with any requirements of
 this chapter, the Secretary shall report the failure to the Committee
 on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on
 Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, shall fully investigate
 the matter, may decline to provide additional Federal guarantees or
 interest subsidies to the State trust fund, and shall take other steps as
 may be appropriate to prevent the use of Federal assistance in a manner
 not consistent with this chapter.
`SEC. 1468. APPLICATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION.
 `(a) APPLICATIONS- In applying for assistance under this chapter an eligible
 State described in section 1465(c)(3)(B) shall--
 `(1) prepare and submit, to the Secretary, an application at such time, in
 such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary shall require;
 `(2) agree that the State trust fund will use any funds provided, or
 guaranteed, by the Secretary under this chapter in a manner that is consistent
 with the chapter and the regulations promulgated by the Secretary; and
 `(3) agree to comply with any other requirements set forth in agreements
 with the Secretary or as the Secretary may prescribe by regulation.
 `(b) ANNUAL APPLICATIONS- Eligible States described in section 1465(c)(3)(B)
 may apply for Federal assistance under this chapter on an annual basis.
 The Secretary shall approve or disapprove each application for assistance,
 and notify the applicant of the action not later than 30 days after receipt
 of a complete application.
 `(c) MATCH AND MAXIMUM AMOUNT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The total amount of any guarantees provided by the Secretary
 under this program for each eligible State shall equal an  amount that
 is equal to double the amount that is, or shall be, made available to the
 trust fund (including matching funds described in paragraphs (2) through
 (4)) in each such eligible State by the State, political subdivisions
 thereof, charitable organizations, private persons, or any other entity,
 for acquiring interests in land to protect and preserve important farmlands
 for future agricultural use but in no event shall the total Federal share
 exceed $10,000,000 in any fiscal year for any given State.
 `(2) EARNINGS- Earnings of the State trust fund and funds expended by the
 State or the State trust fund prior to loan closing for purposes consistent
 with this chapter, and in the same fiscal year, may be considered as
 matching funds.
 `(3) OBLIGATIONS- Proceeds from the sale of tax-exempt general obligation
 bonds, or other obligations, of the State or State trust fund shall be
 an allowable source of matching funds under this chapter for the same
 fiscal year.
 `(4) LAND- The fair market value of any donation of an interest in land to the
 State trust fund, or a charitable organization working with the State trust
 fund, may be considered as matching funds, for the same fiscal year, if--
 `(i) the fair market value is based on an appraisal determined to be adequate
 by the State trust fund; and
 `(ii) the donation is consistent with the State farmland preservation plan,
except that the value of land donated to charitable organizations by the
State trust fund shall not be included as part of the match.
 `(d) CLARIFICATION OF FEDERAL LAW- Sellers of land, or of interests in land,
 to any State trust fund are not, and shall not be considered by the Secretary
 as, recipients or beneficiaries of Federal assistance.
`SEC. 1469. REPORT.
 `Not later than September 30, 1992, and annually thereafter, the Secretary
 of Agriculture shall prepare and submit, to the Committee on Agriculture of
 the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
 and Forestry of the Senate, a report concerning the operation of the program
 established under this chapter.'.
 (b) REGULATIONS- Section 1470 of the Farms for the Future Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 4201 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking `This' and inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- This'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(b) REGULATIONS- Not later than December 31, 1991, the Secretary of
 Agriculture shall publish in the Federal Register interim final regulations
 to implement this chapter. The regulations shall not require each State's
 program to give a priority to the acquisition of land, or interests in land,
 that is subject to significant urban pressure.'.
 (c) REPORTS; STOCK ISSUANCE- Such Act is amended by adding at the end the
 following new sections:
`SEC. 1470A. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORTS.
 `On February 15 of 1992, and on December 1 of each of the years 1992 through
 1996, the Comptroller General of the United States shall report to the
 Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate, on whether the Secretary
 of Agriculture is complying with the requirements of this chapter. The report
 shall include information concerning loans guaranteed under this chapter and
 the steps the Secretary of Agriculture has taken to comply with this chapter.
`SEC. 1470B.  SPECIAL RULES FOR ISSUANCE OF STOCK FOR 1992.
 `The Secretary shall issue the stock required to be issued to the Secretary
 of Treasury under this chapter with respect to the eligible State described in
 section 1465(c)(3)(A), for fiscal year 1992, on or before December 20, 1991.'.
SEC. 204. AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD SECURITY ACT OF 1985.
 Title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) is
 amended--
 (1) in section 1211 (16 U.S.C. 3811)--
 (A) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking `(16 U.S.C. 1421 note)' and inserting
 `(7 U.S.C. 1421 note)';
 (B) in paragraph (3)(D), by inserting `of subtitle D' after `chapter 2'; and
 (C) in paragraph (3)(E), by inserting `of subtitle D' after `chapter 3';
 (2) in section 1212 (16 U.S.C. 3812)--
 (A) in subsection (f)(4)(A), by striking `such violations' and inserting
 `such violation'; and
 (B) in subsection (g)(2), by striking `XIII,' and inserting `XIII';
 (3) in section 1221(1)(D) (16 U.S.C. 3821(1)(D)), by striking `(16 U.S.C. 1421
 note)' and inserting `(7 U.S.C. 1421 note)';
 (4) in section 1223 (16 U.S.C. 3823), by striking `and' at the end of
 paragraph (3);
 (5) in section 1232(a) (16 U.S.C. 3832(a))--
 (A) by striking the extra semicolon at the end of paragraph (6); and
 (B) in paragraph (7)--
 (i) by striking `fall and winter'; and
 (ii) by striking `for an applicable reduction in rental payment' and inserting
 `and occurs during the 7-month period in which grazing of conserving
 use acreage is allowed in a State under the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7
 U.S.C. 1421 et seq.) or after the producer harvests the grain crop of the
 surrounding field for a reduction in rental payment commensurate with the
 limited economic value of such incidental grazing'.
 (6) in section 1237(d) (16 U.S.C. 3837(d)), by striking `subsection (d)'
 and inserting `subsection (c)';
 (7) in section 1239(b)(1)(A) (16 U.S.C. 3839(b)(1)(A)), by striking
 `corridors,' and inserting `corridors;'; and
 (8) in section 1247(b) (16 U.S.C. 3847(b)), by striking `subsection 1234(b)'
 and inserting `section 1234(b)'.
TITLE III--AGRICULTURAL TRADE
SEC. 301. SUPERFLUOUS PUNCTUATION IN FARMER TO FARMER PROVISIONS.
 Section 501(a)(3) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1737(a)(3)) is amended by striking the comma after `public'.
SEC. 302. PUNCTUATION CORRECTION IN ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE.
 Section 603(a)(3) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1738b(a)(3)) is amended by inserting a hyphen between
 `Inter' and `American'.
SEC. 303. SPELLING CORRECTION IN SECTION 604.
 Section 604(a)(2) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1738c(a)(2)) is amended by striking `AVALIABILITY'
 and inserting `AVAILABILITY'.
SEC. 304. MISSING WORD IN SECTION 606.
 Section 606(c) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1738e(c)) is amended by inserting `accounts' after
 `Corporation'.
SEC. 305. PUNCTUATION ERROR IN SECTION 607.
 Section 607(a) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of
 1954 (7 U.S.C 1738f(a)) is amended by striking the quotation mark before
 `Fund' and inserting it after `Fund' the last place it appears.
SEC. 306. TYPOGRAPHICAL CORRECTION IN SECTION 612.
 Section 612(a)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C 1738k(a)(1)) is amended by striking `462), and--'
 and inserting `2281 et seq.);'.
SEC. 307. ERRONEOUS QUOTATION.
 Section 1515(b) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
 1990 is amended by striking `title I and' and inserting `titles I and'.
SEC. 308. PUNCTUATION CORRECTION.
 Section 103(d)(2) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5603(d)(2))
 is amended by inserting a close parenthesis mark before the final period.
SEC. 309. DATE CORRECTION.
 Section 203(g)(3) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5623(g)(3))
 is amended by striking `the date of enactment of this Act' and inserting
 `November 28, 1990,'.
SEC. 310. MISSING SUBTITLE HEADING CORRECTION.
 Title II of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 is amended by inserting
 after the title heading the following:
`Subtitle A--Programs'.
SEC. 311. REDESIGNATION OF SUBSECTION.
 Section 301 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5651) is amended
 by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
SEC. 312. DATE CORRECTION TO SECTION 404.
 Section 404 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5664) is amended
 by striking out `the date of enactment of this Act' and inserting `November
 28, 1990'.
SEC. 313. DATE CORRECTION TO SECTION 416.
 Section 416(e) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5676(e)) is
 amended by striking out `the effective date of this section' and inserting
 `November 28, 1990'.
SEC. 314. REDESIGNATION OF SECTION.
 The Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 is amended by redesignating section 506
 (7 U.S.C. 5695) as section 505.
SEC. 315. CROSS REFERENCE CORRECTION.
 Section 601 of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5711) is amended
 by striking `section 104' each place it appears and inserting `section 103'.
SEC. 316. PLACEMENT CLARIFICATION.
 Section 1532 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 is amended by striking `thereof' and inserting `of title I'.
SEC. 317. PUNCTUATION CORRECTION.
 Section 108(b) of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1748) is amended by
 striking the period at the end of paragraph (1)(B) and inserting a semicolon.
SEC. 318. ELIMINATION OF OBSOLETE CROSS REFERENCE.
 Section 108(b)(4) of the Agricultural Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1748(b)(4))
 is amended by striking `the trade assistance office' and all that follows
 through `section 201),'.
SEC. 319. CROSS REFERENCE CORRECTION.
 Section 407(c) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(c)) is amended by inserting `title I of' before
 `this Act' each place it appears in paragraphs (2)(B) and (3).
SEC. 320. CORRECTING CLERICAL ERRORS IN SECTION 204 OF THE AGRICULTURAL
TRADE ACT OF 1978.
 Section 204(d) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5624)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `AGENCY OR PRIVATE PARTIES' in the heading and inserting
 `AGENCIES'; and
 (2) by striking `government' and inserting `Government'.
SEC. 321. CAPITALIZATION CORRECTION.
 Section 403(i)(2)(C) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1733(i)(2)(C)) is amended by striking `Committees'
 and inserting `committees'.
SEC. 322. CORRECTION OF ERROR IN DATE.
 Sections 409, 410(a), 410(b), 410(c), and 411(e) of the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736c, 1736d(a), 1736d(b),
 1736d(c), and 1736e(e)) are each amended by striking `the date of enactment
 of this Act' and inserting `November 28, 1990'.
SEC. 323. CORRECTION OF TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR.
 Section 406(b)(5)(D) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736(b)(5)(D)) is amended by striking `items' and
 inserting `time'.
SEC. 324. CROSS REFERENCE CORRECTION.
 Section 407(c)(1)(A) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(c)(1)(A)) is amended by striking `this section'
 and inserting `title I'.
SEC. 325. ELIMINATION OF SUPERFLUOUS WORD.
 Section 407(c)(1)(C) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(c)(1)(C)) is amended by striking `other'.
SEC. 326. CROSS REFERENCE CORRECTION.
 Section 411(a) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of
 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736e(a)) is amended by striking `this title' and inserting
 `title I'.
SEC. 327. AMENDMENT TO SECTION 602.
 Section 602(a) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5712(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking `designate as produced' and inserting
 `designate produced'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `in accordance with subsection (c)'.
SEC. 328. SECTION 407 CORRECTIONS.
 (a) SUBSECTION (c)(4)- Section 407(c)(4) of the Agricultural Trade Development
 and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(c)(4)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `provides or' after `in which such person'; and
 (2) by striking `if the person is' and inserting `of a person'.
 (b) ELIMINATION OF WORD- Section 407(d)(3) of the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 is amended by striking `other'.
SEC. 329. SECTION 407(b) AMENDMENT.
 Section 407(b)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(b)(1)) is amended by striking `or agricultural
 commodity donated'.
SEC. 330. SUPPLEMENTAL VIEWS IN ANNUAL REPORT.
 Section 614 of the Agricultural Trade  Development and Assistance Act of 1954
 (7 U.S.C. 1738m) is amended--
 (1) by striking `Not later' and inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- Not later'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(b) SUPPLEMENTAL VIEWS IN ANNUAL REPORT- No later than December 15 of each
 fiscal year, each member of the Board shall be entitled to receive a cop}
 of the report required under subsection (a).  Each member of the Board may
 prepare and submit supplemental views to the President on the implementation
 of this title by December 31 for inclusion in the annual report when it is
 transmitted to Congress pursuant to this section.'.
SEC. 331. CONSULTATIONS WITH CONGRESS.
 The Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 is amended
 by inserting after section 614 (7 U.S.C. 1738m) the following:
`SEC. 615. CONSULTATIONS WITH CONGRESS.
 `The President shall consult with the appropriate congressional committees
 on a periodic basis to review the operation of the Facility under this
 title and the eligibility of countries for benefits from the Facility under
 this title.'.
SEC. 332. STATUTE DESIGNATION.
 Section 407(d)(4) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance
 Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736a(d)(4)) is amended by striking `the Federal
 Property Act of 1949, as amended,' and inserting `the Federal Property and
 Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.)'.
SEC. 333. CORRECTION OF PLACEMENT AND INDENTATION OF SUBPARAGRAPH.
 Subparagraph (B) of section 1514(5) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 3663), is amended to read as follows:
 `(B) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) The provisions of sections 403(i) and 407(c) of the Agricultural Trade
 Development and Assistance Act of 1954 shall apply to donations, sales and
 barters of eligible commodities under this subsection.'.
SEC. 334. EXPORT CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM.
 Section 202(i) of the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5622(i))
 is amended by striking `or proceeds payable under a credit guarantee issued
 by the Commodity Credit Corporation under this section if it is determined
 by the Corporation that' and inserting `issued by the Commodity Credit
 Corporation under this section if it is determined by the Corporation,
 at the time of the assignment, that'.
SEC. 335. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM.
 The Food for Progress Act of 1985 (7 U.S.C. 1736o) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (l), by striking `September 30,' where it appears
 immediately before `December 31';
 (2) in subsection (m), by striking `this Act' each place it appears and
 inserting `this section'; and
 (3) by redesignating subsections (l) and (m) (as amended by paragraphs (1)
 and (2)) as subsections (k) and (l), respectively.
SEC. 336. MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENT TO THE AGRICULTURAL TRADE DEVELOPMENT AND
ASSISTANCE ACT OF 1954.
 The first sentence of section 411(b) of the Agricultural Trade Development
 and Assistance Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1736e) is amended by inserting before
 the period at the end the following: `at least 10 days prior to providing
 the debt relief'.
SEC. 337. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
 Section 214 of the Tobacco Adjustment Act of 1983 (7 U.S.C. 509(f))
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as subsections (d) through
 (g), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c) EXCEPTIONS- The reporting and recordkeeping requirements of this
 section shall not apply with respect to cigars, cigar tobaccos, pipe tobacco,
 chewing tobacco in retail packaging, and snuff in retail packaging. In order
 to qualify for the exception under this subsection, the tobacco must have a
 certification that its end use is for cigars, cigar tobacco, pipe tobacco,
 chewing tobacco in retail packaging, or snuff in retail packaging.'.
SEC. 338. SHARING UNITED STATES AGRICULTURAL EXPERTISE AND INFORMATION.
 Section 1542(d) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 5622 note) is amended--
 (1) by striking the subsection heading and inserting the following:
 `(d) E (KIKA) DE LA GARZA AGRICULTURAL FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM- The Secretary of
 Agriculture (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Secretary') shall
 establish a program, to be known as the `E (Kika) de la Garza Agricultural
 Fellowship Program', to develop agricultural markets in emerging democracies
 and to promote cooperation and exchange of information between agricultural
 institutions and agribusinesses in the United States and the Soviet Union,
 as follows:
 `(1) DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SYSTEMS- ';
 (2) in paragraph (1), by indenting 2 ems the left margin of subparagraphs
 (A) and (B) and redesignating such subparagraphs as clauses (i) and (ii),
 respectively;
 (3) in paragraph (2), by indenting 2 ems the left margin of subparagraphs
 (A) and (B) and redesignating such subparagraphs as clauses (i) and (ii),
 respectively;
 (4) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of paragraphs (1) through (9) and
 redesignating such paragraphs as subparagraphs (A) through (I), respectively;
 (5) by striking `subsection' each place it appears and inserting `paragraph';
 (6) by striking `paragraph (1)' each place it appears and inserting
 `subparagraph (A)';
 (7) by striking `paragraph (2)(A)' each place it appears and inserting
 `subparagraph (B)';
 (8) by striking `paragraph (2)(B)' each place it appears and inserting
 `subparagraph (B)';
 (9) in paragraph (1)(B) (as so redesignated)--
 (A) by striking `and' at the end of clause (i);
 (B) by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
 `(iii) by providing for necessary subsistence expenses in emerging democracies
 and necessary transportation expenses of United States agricultural producers
 and other individuals knowledgeable in agricultural and agribusiness matters
 to assist in transferring their knowledge and expertise to entities in
 emerging democracies.';
 (10) in paragraph (1)(I) (as so redesignated), by striking `$5,000,000'
 and inserting `$10,000,000'; and
 (11) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) AGRICULTURAL INFORMATION PROGRAM-
 `(A) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Secretary shall establish a program,
 administered to complement the emerging democracies export promotion program
 developed under this section, to initiate and develop collaboration between
 the United States Department of Agriculture, United States agribusinesses,
 and appropriate agricultural institutions in the Soviet Union in order to
 promote the exchange of information and resources that will make a long-term
 contribution to the establishment of a free market food production and
 distribution system in the Soviet Union and the enhancement of agricultural
 trade with the United States.
 `(B) IMPLEMENTATION- The Secretary shall draw on the Department
 of Agriculture's experience to design, implement, and evaluate, on a
 cost-sharing basis with cooperating agricultural institutions, a program to--
 `(i) compile, through contacts with the Government of the Soviet Union and
 private sector officials in the Soviet Union, a list of their agricultural
 institutions, including the location, capabilities, and needs of the
 institutions;
 `(ii) make such information available through an appropriate agency of the
 Department of Agriculture to agribusinesses and agricultural institutions
 in the United States and other agencies of the United States Government; and
 `(iii) carry out a program--
 `(I) to review available agricultural information resources, to determine
 which would be useful for the purposes of this program;
 `(II) to arrange for the exchange of persons associated with such agricultural
 institutions and agribusinesses with experience or interest in the areas
 of need identified in clause (i); and
 `(III) to help establish contacts between agricultural entrepreneurs and
 businesses in the United States and the Soviet Union, which may include
 individuals and entities participating in the program established under
 paragraph (1), to facilitate cooperation and joint enterprises.
 `(C) CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION- The Secretary shall consult and coordinate
 with the Secretary of State and the Agency for International Development
 in the formulation and implementation of this program in conjunction with
 overall assistance to the Soviet Union.
 `(D) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this subsection, the term `Soviet Union'
 means the Soviet Union, its successor entities, or any of the individual
 republics of the Soviet Union.
 `(E) AUTHORIZATION FOR APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out the program established under
 this paragraph.'.
SEC. 339. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE AMERICAS
BOARD.
 Section 610(b)(1) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act
 of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1738i(b)(1)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)--
 (A) by striking `five' and inserting `six'; and
 (B) by inserting `, at least one of whom shall be a representative of the
 Department of Agriculture' after `Government'; and
 (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking `four' and inserting `five'.
TITLE IV--RESEARCH
SEC. 401. COMPETITIVE, SPECIAL, AND FACILITIES RESEARCH GRANTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- Subsection (a) of section 2 of Public Law 89-106 (7
 U.S.C. 450i) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' before `In order'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Competitive, Special,
 and Facilities Research Grant Act'.'.
 (b) OTHER AMENDMENTS- Such section is further amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)(10), by striking `and' after `1993,';
 (2) in subsection (e)--
 (A) by striking `RECORD KEEPING- ' and inserting `INTER-REGIONAL RESEARCH
 PROJECT NUMBER 4- ';
 (B) in paragraphs (1) and (7), by striking `this section' and inserting
 `this subsection';
 (C) in paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5)(C), and (6)(A), by striking `IR-4
 program' and inserting `IR-4 Program';
 (D) in paragraph (5)(B)--
 (i) by striking `registration,' and inserting `registrations,'; and
 (ii) by inserting `and' at the end of the subparagraph; and
 (E) in paragraph (6)--
 (i) by striking `within one year of the date of the enactment of this
 paragraph' and inserting `not later than November 28, 1991,'; and
 (ii) by inserting a comma after `reregistrations' in the first sentence;
 (3) in subsection (f), by striking `LIMITS ON OVERHEAD COSTS- ' and inserting
 `RECORD KEEPING- ';
 (4) in subsection (g), by striking `AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 ' and inserting `LIMITS ON OVERHEAD COSTS- ';
 (5) in subsection (h)--
 (A) by striking `RULES- ' and inserting `AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- ';
 (B) by striking `subsection (b) of this section' and inserting `subsections
 (b) and (e)'; and
 (C) by striking `the provisions of';
 (6) in subsection (i)--
 (A) by striking `APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS- ' and inserting `RULES- ';
 (B) by striking `is authorized to' and inserting `may'; and
 (C) by striking `the provisions of';
 (7) in subsection (j) (as redesignated by section 1497(1) of the Food,
 Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 3630)), by
 inserting `APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS- ' after `(j)'; and
 (8) by redesignating subsections (j), (k), and (l) (as inserted by section
 1615(b) of such Act (104 Stat. 3731)) as subsections (k), (l), and (m),
 respectively.
SEC. 402. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH, EXTENSION, AND TEACHING POLICY
ACT OF 1977.
 The National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of
 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 1407(e) (7 U.S.C. 3122(e)) by striking the semicolon at the
 end of paragraph (7) and inserting a period;
 (2) in section 1408 (7 U.S.C. 3123)--
 (A) in subsection (e), by striking `government' and inserting `Government';
 and
 (B) in subsection (g)(1), by striking `Federally' and inserting `federally';
 (3) in sections 1404(18) and 1408A(a) (7 U.S.C. 3103(18) and 3123a(a)),
 by inserting `and' after `Science';
 (4) in section 1408A(c)(2)(H) (7 U.S.C. 3123a(c)(2)(H)), by striking
 `farmerworkers' and inserting `farmworkers';
 (5) in section 1412 (7 U.S.C. 3127), by striking `and Advisory Board' in
 subsections (b) and (c) and inserting `, Advisory Board, and Technology
 Board';
 (6) in section 1417(i) (7 U.S.C. 3152(c)), by striking the second sentence;
 (7) in section 1419(b) (7 U.S.C. 3154(b)), by striking `subsection (c)'
 and inserting `subsection (d)';
 (8) in section 1432 (7 U.S.C. 3194), by striking `SEC. 1432. (a)';
 (9) in section 1446(d)(2) (7 U.S.C. 3222a(d)(2), by striking `the needs
 identified' and inserting `the purposes identified';
 (10) in section 1446(e) (7 U.S.C. 3222a(e)), by striking `objective or'
 and inserting `objective of';
 (11) in section 1458(a) (7 U.S.C. 3291(a)), by striking the period at the
 end of paragraph (3) and inserting a semicolon;
 (12) in section 1463(a) (7 U.S.C. 3311), by striking `subtitle H and';
 (13) in section 1473 (7 U.S.C. 3319), by striking `subsection (c)(2)'
 and inserting `subsection (c)(1)(B)'; and
 (14) by repealing section 1473E (7 U.S.C. 3319e).
SEC. 403. RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND SMALL FARM RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.
 (a) PROGRAMS AUTHORIZED- Section 502 of the Rural Development Act of 1972
 (7 U.S.C. 2662) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (f)--
 (A) by striking the subsection heading and inserting `COMPETITIVE GRANTS FOR
 FINANCIALLY STRESSED FARMERS, DISLOCATED FARMERS, AND RURAL FAMILIES- '; and
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `during the period beginning on the date
 of the enactment of this Act and ending on' and inserting `until'; and
 (2) in the subsections following subsection (g)--
 (A) by striking `(b) RURAL DEVELOPMENT EXTENSION' and inserting `(h) RURAL
 DEVELOPMENT EXTENSION';
 (B) by striking `(h) RURAL HEALTH' and inserting `(i) RURAL HEALTH';
 (C) by striking `(h) RESEARCH GRANTS- ' and inserting `(j) RESEARCH GRANTS-
 '; and
 (D) by arranging such subsections to appear in the proper order.
 (b) DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS- Section 503(c)(1) of that Act (7 U.S.C. 2663(c)(1))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `the provisions of section 502(e) of this title' and inserting
 `subsections (e) and (i) of section 502'; and
 (2) by striking `objectives of section 502(e) of this title' and inserting
 `objectives of those subsections'.
SEC. 404. NATIONAL GENETIC RESOURCES PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subtitle C of title XVI of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3744)
 is amended--
 (1) in the subtitle heading, by striking `Genetics' and inserting `Genetic';
 and
 (2) in section 1633(a) (7 U.S.C. 5842(a)), by striking `Resources program'
 and inserting `Resources Program'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The item relating to such subtitle in section 1(b)
 of such Act (104 Stat. 3365) is amended to read as follows:
`Subtitle C--National Genetic Resources Program'.
SEC. 405. ALTERNATIVE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND COMMERCIALIZATION.
 (a) PUNCTUATION CORRECTION- Section 1658(d) of the Alternative Agricultural
 Research and Commercialization Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5902(d)) is amended--
 (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (2) by striking `; and' at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting a period.
 (b) ESTABLISHMENT OF REGIONAL CENTERS- Section 1663(a)(2) of such Act
 (7 U.S.C. 5907(a)(2)) is amended by striking `A Regional Center may not
 be established or operated' and inserting `No Regional Centers may be
 established'.
SEC. 406. DEER TICK RESEARCH.
 Section 1672 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 5925) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (i), by striking `Agricultural Research Service' and
 inserting `Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Cooperative State
 Research Service, to make competitive grants'; and
 (2) in subsection (k)(1), by striking `Except for research funded under
 subsection (i), research' and inserting `Research'.
SEC. 407. MISCELLANEOUS RESEARCH PROVISIONS.
 Title XVI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3703) is amended--
 (1) in section 1604(a) (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3706), by striking
 `(7 U.S.C. 3122(a))' and inserting `(7 U.S.C. 3122)'.
 (2) in section 1619(b)(8) (7 U.S.C. 5801(b)(8)), by striking `Marianas
 Islands' and inserting `Mariana Islands';
 (3) in section 1628(c) (7 U.S.C. 5831(c)), by striking `education' and
 inserting `educational';
 (4) in section 1629(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 5832(c)(1)), by striking `insure'
 and inserting `ensure';
 (5) in section 1634(l) (7 U.S.C. 5843(l)), by striking `committee established'
 and inserting `council established';
 (6) in section 1638(b)(5) (7 U.S.C. 5852(b)(5)), by striking `National
 Sciences Foundation' and inserting `National Science Foundation';
 (7) in section 1639(a) (7 U.S.C. 5853(a)), by striking `Act' and inserting
 `subtitle';
 (8) in section 1652(b)(1) (7 U.S.C. 5883(b)(1)), by striking `pheremones'
 and inserting `pheromones';
 (9) in section 1668(g)(2) (7 U.S.C. 5921(g)(2)), by striking `WITHOLDINGS'
 and inserting `WITHHOLDINGS';
 (10) in section 1670(d) (7 U.S.C. 5923(d)), by striking `acquaculture'
 and inserting `aquaculture';
 (11) in section 1672(c) (7 U.S.C. 5925(c)), by redesignating paragraphs
 (A) through (I) as paragraphs (1) through (9), respectively;
 (12) in section 1673(f) (7 U.S.C. 5926(f)), by striking `programs or'
 and inserting `programs of';
 (13) in section 1674 (7 U.S.C. 5927)--
 (A) in subsection (d)(3)(A), by striking `Schedules' and inserting
 `Schedule'; and
 (B) in subsection (f), by striking `Committee' both places it appears and
 inserting `Committees';
 (14) in section 1675(c) (7 U.S.C. 5928(c))--
 (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraph:
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- Notwithstanding subsection (g)(1), the Secretary shall
 establish not more than four centers.'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `PERIODS AND PREFERENCES- Grants' and
 inserting the following: `OPERATING GRANTS- The Secretary shall make grants
 to operate the centers established under paragraph (1). Such grants shall be
 competitively awarded based on merit and relevance in reference to meeting
 the purposes specified in subsection (a). Such grants';
 (15) in section 1677 (7 U.S.C. 5930)--
 (A) by striking `Reservation' each place it appears in subsections (a),
 (b), and (e) and inserting `reservation';
 (B) by striking `Reservations' both places it appears in subsection (a)
 and inserting `reservations'; and
 (C) by striking `Tribal' in subsection (c) and inserting `tribal';
 (16) in section 1678(d) (7 U.S.C. 5931(d)), by striking `Teaching, and
 Extension' and inserting `Extension, and Teaching'; and
 (17) in section 1681(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 5934(a)(2)), by striking `teacheal mite'
 and inserting `tracheal mite'.
SEC. 408. SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION.
 Section 1624 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 5814) is amended by striking `and 1623' and inserting `and 1622'.
TITLE V--CREDIT
SEC. 501. AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 304- Section 304 of the Consolidated Farm and
 Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1924) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (a); and
 (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (a) and moving such
 subsection to appear before subsection (b).
 (b) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 312(a)- Section 312(a) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1942(a))
 is amended by striking `systems.' and all that follows and inserting `systems
 (for purposes of this subtitle, the term `solar energy' means energy
 derived from sources (other than fossil fuels) and technologies included
 in the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974)
 (42 U.S.C. 5901 et seq.), (12) training in maintaining records of farming
 and ranching operations for limited resource borrowers receiving loans
 under section 310D, and (13) borrower training under section 359.'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 331-
 (1) DIRECT AMENDMENTS- Section 331(b)(4) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1981(b)(4))
 is amended--
 (A) by striking `this title'; and
 (B) by striking `1949 from' and inserting `1949, from'.
 (2) INDIRECT AMENDMENTS-
 (A) CLARIFICATION OF REPEAL- Section 1805 of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 3819) is amended by striking
 subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the following:
 `(b) PAYMENT OF ACCRUED INTEREST- Section 331 (7 U.S.C. 1981) is amended
 by striking subsection (h) and redesignating subsections (i) and (j) as
 subsections (h) and (i), respectively.'.
 (B) CLARIFICATION OF TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS- Section 2388(d)(1) of the Food,
 Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 4052) is amended--
 (i) by inserting `, as amended by section 1805(b) of this Act,' before
 `is amended';
 (ii) in clause (i) of subparagraph (A), by striking `(h), and (i)' and
 inserting `and (h)';
 (iii) by striking clause (iv) and redesignating clauses (v), (vi), and
 (vii) of subparagraph (A) as clauses (iv), (v), and (vi), respectively;
 (iv) in clause (iv) of subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated by clause (iii)
 of this subparagraph), by striking `(i)' and inserting `(h)'; and
 (v) in clause (vi) of subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated by clause (iii)
 of this subparagraph)--
 (I) by striking `(j)' and inserting `(i)'; and
 (II) by striking `(10)' and inserting `(9)'.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 331E-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 331E of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1981e) is amended--
 (A) by striking `The' and inserting `(a) IN GENERAL- The'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(b) CALCULATION OF YIELDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of averaging past yields of the farm of
 a borrower or applicant over a period of crop years to calculate future
 yields for the farm under this title (except for loans under subtitle C),
 the Secretary shall permit the borrower or applicant to exclude the crop
 year with the lowest actual or county average yield for the farm from the
 calculation, if the borrower or applicant was affected by a disaster during
 at least 2 of the crop years during the period.
 `(2) AFFECTED BY A DISASTER- For purposes of paragraph (1), a borrower
 or applicant was affected by a disaster if the Secretary finds that the
 borrower or applicant's farming operations have been substantially affected
 by a natural disaster in the United States or by a major disaster or emergency
 designated by the President under the Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
 Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), including a borrower or applicant who has a
 qualifying loss but is not located in a designated or declared disaster area.
 `(3) APPLICATION OF SUBSECTION- Paragraph (1) shall apply to all actions taken
 by the Secretary to carry out this title (except for loans under subtitle
 C) that involve the yields of a farm of a borrower or applicant, including
 making loans and loan guarantees, servicing loans, and making credit sales.'.
 (2) REGULATIONS-
 (A) INTERIM REGULATIONS- Notwithstanding section 553 of title 5, United
 States Code, as soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this
 Act and without a requirement for prior public notice and comment, the
 Secretary of Agriculture shall issue interim regulations that provide for
 the implementation of the amendment made by paragraph (1) beginning in crop
 year 1992.
 (B) FINAL REGULATIONS- The Secretary of Agriculture shall provide for public
 notice and comment before the issuance of final regulations to implement
 the amendment made by paragraph (1).
 (3) EFFECTIVE DATE-
 (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the amendment made
 by paragraph (1) shall become effective on the date of publication of the
 interim regulations issued pursuant to paragraph (2)(A).
 (B) EXCEPTION- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply to each
 primary loan servicing application submitted on or after the date of
 enactment of this Act.
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 333(2)(A)- Section 333(2)(A) of the Consolidated
 Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1983(2)(A)) is amended by
 redesignating clauses (1), (2), and (3), as clauses (i), (ii), and (iii),
 respectively.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 335(e)(1)- Section 335(e)(1) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 1985(e)(1)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking `the borrower' and all that follows
 through `the `borrower-owner')' and inserting `borrower-owner (as defined
 in subparagraph (F)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(F) As used in this paragraph, the term `borrower-owner' means--
 `(i) a borrower from whom the Secretary acquired real farm or ranch property
 (including the principal residence of the borrower) used to secure any loan
 made to the borrower under this title; or
 `(ii) in any case in which an owner of property pledged the property to
 secure the loan and the owner is different than the borrower, the owner.'.
 (g) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 352- Section 352 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2000)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) and (4),
 respectively; and
 (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) The term `borrower-owner' means--
 `(A) a borrower of a loan made or insured by the Secretary or the
 Administrator who meets the eligibility requirements of subsection (c)(1); or
 `(B) in any case in which an owner of homestead property pledged the
 property to secure the loan and the owner is different than the borrower,
 the owner.'; and
 (2) by striking `borrower' each place it appears and inserting
 `borrower-owner'.
 (h) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 353- Section 353 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2001)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (c)(6)(A)(ii), by striking `the date of enactment of this
 paragraph' and inserting `November 28, 1990'; and
 (2) in subsection (m), by striking `335(e)(1)(A)' and inserting `335(e)(1)'.
 (i) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 363- Section 363 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2006e)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `3801(a)(16))' and inserting `3801(a)(16)))'; and
 (2) by striking `prior to the date of enactment of this section' and inserting
 `before November 28, 1990'.
SEC. 502. AMENDMENTS TO THE FARM CREDIT ACT OF 1971.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 1.11(a)- Section 1.11(a) of the Farm Credit Act
 of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2019(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `(a) Agricultural or Aquatic Purposes' and inserting the
 following:
 `(a) AGRICULTURAL OR AQUATIC PURPOSES';
 (2) by striking `(1) In general' and inserting the following:
 `(1) IN GENERAL'; and
 (3) by striking `(2) Limitation on loans for basic processing and marketing
 operations' and inserting the following:
 `(2) LIMITATION ON LOANS FOR BASIC PROCESSING AND MARKETING OPERATIONS'.
 (b) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2.0(b)(8)- Section 2.0(b)(8) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2071(b)(8)) is amended by striking `charter to' and inserting
 `charter, to'.
 (c) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2.1- Section 2.1 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2072)
 is amended by striking `or stockholder' and inserting `stockholder, or agent'.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2.11- Section 2.11 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2092)
 is amended by striking `or stockholder' and inserting `stockholder, or agent'.
 (e) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 3.7(b)-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 3.7(b) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2128(b)) is amended--
 (A) by inserting `(1)' after the subsection designation;
 (B) by striking `(1) a domestic' and inserting `(A) a domestic';
 (C) by inserting `or products thereof' after `commodities';
 (D) by striking `(2) a domestic' and inserting `(B) a domestic';
 (E) by striking `clause (1) of this subsection' and inserting `subparagraph
 (A)'; and
 (F) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(2) A bank for cooperatives is authorized to make or participate in loans
 and commitments, and to extend other technical and financial assistance,
 to any domestic or foreign entity that is eligible for a guarantee
 or insurance as described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) with respect to
 transactions involving the Soviet Union (its successor entities or any of
 the individual republics of the Soviet Union) or an emerging democracy
 (as defined in section 1542(f) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 5622 note)) for the export of agricultural
 commodities and products thereof from the United States, including (where
 applicable) the cost of freight, if in each case--
 `(A) the loan involved is unconditionally guaranteed or insured by a
 department, agency, bureau, board, commission, or establishment of the
 United States or any corporation wholly owned directly or indirectly by
 the United States; and
 `(B) the guarantee or insurance--
 `(i) covers at least 95 percent of the amount loaned for the purchase of
 the commodities or products; and
 `(ii) is issued on or before September 30, 1995.
 `(3) A bank for cooperatives is authorized to provide such services as
 may be customary and normal in maintaining relationships with domestic or
 foreign entities to facilitate the activities specified in paragraphs (1)
 and (2), consistent with this Act.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 3.8(b)(1)(D) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2129(b)(1)(D)) is amended by striking `section 3.7(f)' and inserting
 `subsection (b) or (f) of section 3.7'.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 3.8- Section 3.8 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2129)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(4), by striking `(4) A' and inserting `(4) a'; and
 (2) in subsection (b)(1), by moving subparagraph (D) 2 ems to the right so
 that the left margin of such subparagraph is aligned with the left margin
 of subparagraph (C).
 (g) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 4.28- Section 4.28 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2214)
 is amended by striking `2.17' and inserting `2.16'.
 (h) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5.17(a)(8)(B)(ii)- Section 5.17(a)(8)(B)(ii) of
 such Act (12 U.S.C. 2252(a)(8)(B)(ii)) is amended by striking the last period.
 (i) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5.35(3)- Section 5.35(3) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2271(3)) is amended by striking `D' and inserting `E'.
 (j) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5.58(4)(B)- Section 5.58(4)(B) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2277a-7(4)(B)) is amended by inserting after `and the Corporation,'
 the following: `in any capacity,'.
 (k) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 5.65(d)(1)- Section 5.65(d)(1) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2277a-14(d)(1)) is amended by striking `insured'.
 (l) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 6.2(d)- Section 6.2(d) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2278a-2(d)) is amended by striking `subchapter 1' each place such
 term appears and inserting `subchapter I'.
 (m) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 6.23- Section 6.23 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2278b-3)
 is amended by inserting before the period at the end the following:
 `, except in the event of a restructuring or liquidation to a successor
 System institution'.
 (n) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 7.11(a)(2)- Section 7.11(a)(2) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2279e(a)(2)) is amended by striking `30 days' and inserting `60 days'.
SEC. 503. FEDERAL AGRICULTURAL MORTGAGE CORPORATION.
 (a) SUPERVISION AND OVERSIGHT- Section 8.11 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971
 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa-11) is amended--
 (1) by amending paragraph (1) of subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(1) AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Farm
 Credit Administration shall have the authority to provide, acting through
 the Office of Secondary Market Oversight--
 `(A) for the examination of the Corporation and its affiliates; and
 `(B) for the general supervision of the safe and sound performance of the
 powers, functions, and duties vested in the Corporation and its affiliates
 by this title, including through the use of the authorities granted to the
 Farm Credit Administration under--
 `(i) part C of title V; and
 `(ii) beginning 6 months after the date of enactment of this section,
 section 5.17(a)(9).';
 (2) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) Office of secondary market oversight-
 `(A) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this paragraph,
 the Farm Credit Administration Board shall establish within the Farm Credit
 Administration the Office of Secondary Market Oversight.
 `(B) The Farm Credit Administration Board shall carry out the authority
 set forth in this section through the Office of Secondary Market Oversight.
 `(C) The Office of Secondary Market Oversight shall be managed by a full-time
 Director who shall be selected by and report to the Farm Credit Administration
 Board.'; and
 (3) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(f) The Farm Credit Administration Board shall ensure that--
 `(1) the Office of Secondary Market Oversight has access to a sufficient
 number of qualified and trained employees to adequately supervise the
 secondary market activities of the Corporation; and
 `(2) the supervision of the powers, functions, and duties of the Corporation
 is performed, to the extent practicable, by personnel who are not responsible
 for the supervision of the banks and associations of the Farm Credit System.'.
 (b) REGULATION OF FINANCIAL SAFETY AND SOUNDNESS- Title VIII of the Farm
 Credit Act of 1971 (12 U.S.C. 2279aa et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by inserting after section 8.0 the following:
`Subtitle A--Establishment and Activities of Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation'; and
 (2) by inserting after section 8.14 the following new subtitle:
`Subtitle B--Regulation of Financial Safety and Soundness of Federal
Agricultural Mortgage Corporation
`SEC. 8.31. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this subtitle:
 `(1) COMPENSATION- The term `compensation' means any payment of money or
 the provision of any other thing of current or potential value in connection
 with employment.
 `(2) CORE CAPITAL- The term `core capital' means, with respect to the
 Corporation, the sum of the following (as determined in accordance with
 generally accepted accounting principles):
 `(A) The par value of outstanding common stock.
 `(B) The par value of outstanding preferred stock.
 `(C) Paid-in capital.
 `(D) Retained earnings.
 `(3) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of the Office of
 Secondary Market Oversight of the Farm Credit Administration, selected
 under section 8.11(a)(3).
 `(4) OFFICE- The term `Office' means the Office of Secondary Market Oversight
 of the Farm Credit Administration, established in section 8.11(a).
 `(5) REGULATORY CAPITAL- The term `regulatory capital' means, with respect
 to the Corporation, the core capital of the Corporation plus an allowance
 for losses and guarantee claims, as determined in accordance with generally
 accepted accounting principles.
 `(6) STATE- The term `State' means the States of the United States, the
 District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of
 the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or
 possession of the United States.
`SEC. 8.32. RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVELS.
 `(a) RISK-BASED CAPITAL TEST- Not later than the expiration of the 2-year
 period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section, the Director
 of the Office of Secondary Market Oversight shall, by regulation,  establish
 a risk-based capital test under this section for the Corporation. When
 applied to the Corporation, the risk-based capital test shall determine
 the amount of regulatory capital for the Corporation that is sufficient
 for the Corporation to maintain positive capital during a 10-year period
 in which both of the following circumstances occur:
 `(1) CREDIT RISK- With respect to securities representing an interest in,
 or obligations backed by, a pool of qualified loans owned or guaranteed by
 the Corporation and other obligations of the Corporation, losses on the
 underlying qualified loans occur throughout the United States at a rate
 of default and severity (based on any measurements of default reasonably
 related to prevailing industry practice in determining capital adequacy)
 reasonably related to the rate and severity that occurred in contiguous areas
 of the United States containing an aggregate of not less than 5 percent of
 the total population of the United States that, for a period of not less
 than 2 years (as established by the Director), experienced the highest rates
 of default and severity of agricultural mortgage losses, in comparison with
 such rates of default and severity of agricultural mortgage losses in other
 such areas for any period of such duration, as determined by the Director.
 `(2) INTEREST RATE RISK- Interest rates on Treasury obligations of varying
 terms increase or decrease over the first 12 months of such 10-year period
 by not more than the lesser of (A) 50 percent (with respect to the average
 interest rates on such obligations during the 12-month period preceding the
 10-year period), or (B) 600 basis points, and remain at such level for the
 remainder of the period. This paragraph may not be construed to require
 the Director to determine interest rate risk under this paragraph based
 on the interest rates for various long-term and short-term obligations all
 increasing or all decreasing concurrently.
 `(b) CONSIDERATIONS-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF TEST- In establishing the risk-based capital test
 under subsection (a)--
 `(A) the Director shall take into account appropriate distinctions based on
 various types of agricultural mortgage products, varying terms of Treasury
 obligations, and any other factors the Director considers appropriate;
 `(B) the Director shall conform loan data used in determining credit risk
 to the minimum geographic and commodity diversification standards applicable
 to pools of qualified loans eligible for guarantee;
 `(C) the Director shall take into account retained subordinated participating
 interests under section 8.6(b)(2);
 `(D) the Director may take into account other methods or tests to determine
 credit risk developed by the Corporation before the date of the enactment
 of this section; and
 `(E) the Director shall consider any other information submitted by the
 Corporation in writing during the 180-day period beginning on the date of
 the enactment of such Act.
 `(2) REVISING TEST- Upon the expiration of the 5-year period beginning on
 the date of the enactment of this section, the Director shall examine the
 risk-based capital test under subsection (a) and may revise the test. In
 making examinations and revisions under this paragraph, the Director shall
 take into account that, before the date of the enactment of this section,
 the Corporation has not issued guarantees for pools of qualified loans. To
 the extent that the revision of the risk-based capital test causes a change
 in the classification of the Corporation within the enforcement levels
 established under section 8.35, the Director shall waive the applicability
 of any additional enforcement actions available because of such change for a
 reasonable period of time, to permit the Corporation to increase the amount
 of regulatory capital of the Corporation accordingly.
 `(c) RISK-BASED CAPITAL LEVEL- For purposes of this subtitle, the risk-based
 capital level for the Corporation shall be equal to the sum of the following
 amounts:
 `(1) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATE RISK- The amount of regulatory capital
 determined by applying the risk-based capital test under subsection (a)
 to the Corporation, adjusted to account for foreign exchange risk.
 `(2) MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONS RISK- To provide for management and operations
 risk, 30 percent of the amount of regulatory capital determined by applying
 the risk-based capital test under subsection (a) to the Corporation.
 `(d) SPECIFIED CONTENTS- The regulations establishing the risk-based capital
 test under this section shall contain specific requirements, definitions,
 methods, variables, and parameters used under the risk-based capital test
 and in implementing the test (such as loan loss severity, float income,
 loan-to-value ratios, taxes, yield curve slopes, default experience,
 prepayment rates, and performance of pools of qualified loans). The
 regulations shall be sufficiently specific to permit an individual other
 than the Director to apply the test in the same manner as the Director.
 `(e) AVAILABILITY OF MODEL- The Director shall make copies of the statistical
 model or models used to implement the risk-based capital test under this
 section available for public acquisition and may charge a reasonable fee
 for such copies.
`SEC. 8.33. MINIMUM CAPITAL LEVEL.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), for purposes of this
 subtitle, the minimum capital level for the Corporation shall be an amount
 of core capital equal to the sum of--
 `(1) 2.50 percent of the aggregate on-balance sheet assets of the Corporation
 (other than assets referred to in paragraph (3)), as determined in accordance
 with generally accepted accounting principles;
 `(2) 0.45 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding securities
 guaranteed by the Corporation and backed by pools of qualified loans and
 substantially equivalent instruments issued or guaranteed by the Corporation,
 and other off-balance sheet obligations of the Corporation; and
 `(3) the percentage of the aggregate assets of the Corporation acquired
 pursuant to the linked portfolio option under section 8.6(g) that is
 determined under subsection (c).
 `(b) 18-MONTH TRANSITION- During the 18-month period beginning upon the
 date of the enactment of this section, for purposes of this subtitle,
 the minimum capital level for the Corporation shall be an amount of core
 capital equal to the sum of--
 `(1) 1.50 percent of the aggregate on-balance sheet assets of the Corporation
 (other than assets referred to in paragraph (3)), as determined in accordance
 with generally accepted accounting principles;
 `(2) 0.40 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding securities
 guaranteed by the Corporation and backed by pools of qualified loans and
 substantially equivalent instruments issued or guaranteed by the Corporation,
 and other off-balance sheet obligations of the Corporation; and
 `(3) the percentage of the aggregate assets of the Corporation acquired
 pursuant to the linked portfolio option under section 8.6(g) that is
 determined under subsection (c).
 `(c) LINKED PORTFOLIO ASSETS- The percentage of any aggregate assets of the
 Corporation acquired pursuant to the linked portfolio option under section
 8.6(g) that is referred to in subsections (a)(3) and (b)(3) of this section
 (and in section 8.34(3)(A)) shall be--
 `(1) during the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this section--
 `(A) 0.45 percent of any such assets not exceeding $1,000,000,000;
 `(B) 0.75 percent of any such assets in excess of $1,000,000,000 but not
 exceeding $2,000,000,000;
 `(C) 1.00 percent of any such assets in excess of $2,000,000,000 but not
 exceeding $3,000,000,000;
 `(D) 1.25 percent of any such assets in excess of $3,000,000,000 but not
 exceeding $4,000,000,000;
 `(E) 1.50 percent of any such assets in excess of $4,000,000,000 but not
 exceeding $5,000,000,000; and
 `(F) 2.50 percent of any such assets in excess of $5,000,000,000; and
 `(2) after the expiration of such 5-year period, 2.50 percent of any such
 aggregate assets.
`SEC. 8.34. CRITICAL CAPITAL LEVEL.
 `For purposes of this subtitle, the critical capital level for the Corporation
 shall be an amount of core capital equal to the sum of--
 `(1) 1.25 percent of the aggregate on-balance sheet assets of the Corporation
 (other than assets referred to in paragraph (3)), as determined in accordance
 with generally accepted accounting principles;
 `(2) 0.25 percent of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding securities
 guaranteed by the Corporation and backed by pools of qualified loans and
 substantially equivalent instruments issued or guaranteed by the Corporation,
 and other off-balance sheet obligations of the Corporation; and
 `(3) a percentage of any aggregate assets of the Corporation acquired
 pursuant to the linked portfolio option under section 8.6(g), which shall be--
 `(A) during the 5-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this section, one-half of the percentage that is determined under section
 8.33(c)(1); and
 `(B) after the expiration of such 5-year period, 1.25 percent of any such
 aggregate assets.
`SEC. 8.35. ENFORCEMENT LEVELS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director shall classify the Corporation, for purposes
 of this subtitle, according to the following enforcement levels:
 `(1) LEVEL I- The Corporation shall be classified as within level I if
 the Corporation--
 `(A) maintains an amount of regulatory capital that is equal to or exceeds
 the risk-based capital level established under section 8.32; and
 `(B) equals or exceeds the minimum capital level established under section
 8.33.
 `(2) LEVEL II- The Corporation shall be classified as within level II if--
 `(A) the Corporation--
 `(i) maintains an amount of regulatory capital that is less than the
 risk-based capital level; and
 `(ii) equals or exceeds the minimum capital level; or
 `(B) the Corporation is otherwise classified as within level II under
 subsection (b) of this section.
 `(3) LEVEL III- The Corporation shall be classified as within level III if--
 `(A) the Corporation--
 `(i) does not equal or exceed the minimum capital level; and
 `(ii) equals or exceeds the critical capital level established under section
 8.34; or
 `(B) the Corporation is otherwise classified as within level III under
 subsection (b) of this section.
 `(4) LEVEL IV- The Corporation shall be classified as within level IV if
 the Corporation--
 `(A) does not equal or exceed the critical capital level; or
 `(B) is otherwise classified as within level IV under subsection (b) of
 this section.
 `(b) DISCRETIONARY CLASSIFICATION- If at any time the Director determines in
 writing (and provides written notification to the Corporation and the Farm
 Credit Administration) that the Corporation is taking any action not approved
 by the Director that could result in a rapid depletion of core capital
 or that the value of the property subject to mortgages securitized by the
 Corporation or property underlying securities guaranteed by the Corporation,
 has decreased significantly, the Director may classify the Corporation--
 `(1) as within level II, if the Corporation is otherwise within level I;
 `(2) as within level III, if the Corporation is otherwise within level II; or
 `(3) as within level IV, if the Corporation is otherwise within level III.
 `(c) QUARTERLY DETERMINATION- The Director shall determine the classification
 of the Corporation for purposes of this subtitle on not less than a quarterly
 basis (and as appropriate under subsection (b)). The first such determination
 shall be made for the quarter ending March 31, 1992.
 `(d) NOTICE- Upon determining under subsection (b) or (c) that the Corporation
 is within level II or III, the Director shall provide written notice to
 the Congress and to the Corporation--
 `(1) that the Corporation is within such level;
 `(2) that the Corporation is subject to the provisions of section 8.36 or
 8.37, as applicable; and
 `(3) stating the reasons for the classification of the Corporation within
 such level.
 `(e) IMPLEMENTATION- Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection
 (a), during the 30-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this section, the Corporation shall be classified as within level I if the
 Corporation equals or exceeds the minimum capital level established under
 section 8.33.
`SEC. 8.36. MANDATORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO LEVEL II.
 `(a) CAPITAL RESTORATION PLAN- If the Corporation is classified as within
 level II, the Corporation shall, within the time period determined by the
 Director, submit to the Director a capital restoration plan  and, after
 approval, carry out the plan.
 `(b) RESTRICTION ON DIVIDENDS- If the Corporation is classified as within
 level II, the Corporation may not make any payment of dividends that would
 result in the Corporation being reclassified as within level III or IV.
 `(c) RECLASSIFICATION FROM LEVEL II TO LEVEL III- The Director shall
 immediately reclassify the Corporation as within level III (and the
 Corporation shall be subject to the provisions of section 8.37), if--
 `(1) the Corporation is within level II; and
 `(2)(A) the Corporation does not submit a capital restoration plan that is
 approved by the Director; or
 `(B) the Director determines that the Corporation has failed to make, in good
 faith, reasonable efforts necessary to comply with such a capital restoration
 plan and fulfill the schedule for the plan approved by the Director.
 `(d) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect upon the expiration of
 the 30-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this section.
`SEC. 8.37. SUPERVISORY ACTIONS APPLICABLE TO LEVEL III.
 `(a) MANDATORY SUPERVISORY ACTIONS-
 `(1) CAPITAL RESTORATION PLAN- If the Corporation is classified as within
 level III, the Corporation shall, within the time period determined by
 the Director, submit to the Director a capital restoration plan and, after
 approval, carry out the plan.
 `(2) RESTRICTIONS ON DIVIDENDS-
 `(A) PRIOR APPROVAL- If the Corporation is classified as within level III,
 the Corporation--
 `(i) may not make any payment of dividends that would result in the
 Corporation being reclassified as within level IV; and
 `(ii) may make any other payment of dividends only if the Director approves
 the payment before the payment.
 `(B) STANDARD FOR APPROVAL- If the Corporation is classified as within level
 III, the Director may approve a payment of dividends by the Corporation only
 if the Director determines that the payment (i) will enhance the ability
 of the Corporation to meet the risk-based capital level and the minimum
 capital level promptly, (ii) will contribute to the long-term safety and
 soundness of the Corporation, or (iii) is otherwise in the public interest.
 `(3) RECLASSIFICATION FROM LEVEL III TO LEVEL IV- The Director shall
 immediately reclassify the Corporation as within level IV if--
 `(A) the Corporation is classified as within level III; and
 `(B)(i) the Corporation does not submit a capital restoration plan that is
 approved by the Director; or
 `(ii) the Director determines that the Corporation has failed to make, in good
 faith, reasonable efforts necessary to comply with such a capital restoration
 plan and fulfill the schedule for the plan approved by the Director.
 `(b) DISCRETIONARY SUPERVISORY ACTIONS- In addition to any other actions
 taken by the Director (including actions under subsection (a)), the Director
 may, at any time, take any of the following actions if the Corporation is
 classified as within level III:
 `(1) LIMITATION ON INCREASE IN OBLIGATIONS- Limit any increase in, or order
 the reduction of, any obligations of the Corporation, including off-balance
 sheet obligations.
 `(2) LIMITATION ON GROWTH- Limit or prohibit the growth of the assets of
 the Corporation or require contraction of the assets of the Corporation.
 `(3) PROHIBITION ON DIVIDENDS- Prohibit the Corporation from making any
 payment of dividends.
 `(4) ACQUISITION OF NEW CAPITAL- Require the Corporation to acquire
 new capital in any form and in any amount sufficient to provide for the
 reclassification of the Corporation as within level II.
 `(5) RESTRICTION OF ACTIVITIES- Require the Corporation to terminate, reduce,
 or modify any activity that the Director determines creates excessive risk
 to the Corporation.
 `(6) CONSERVATORSHIP- Appoint a conservator for the Corporation consistent
 with this Act.
 `(c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall take effect on January 1, 1992.'.
 (c) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 8.3(c)- Section 8.3(c) of such Act (12
 U.S.C. 2279aa-3(c)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14); and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following new paragraph:
 `(13) To establish, acquire, and maintain affiliates (as such term is
 defined in section 8.11(g)) under applicable State laws to carry out any
 activities that otherwise would be performed directly by the Corporation
 under this title.'.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 8.6- Section 8.6 of such Act (12 U.S.C. 2279aa-6)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) PURCHASE OF GUARANTEED SECURITIES-
 `(1) PURCHASE AUTHORITY- The Corporation (and affiliates) may purchase, hold,
 and sell any securities guaranteed under this section by the Corporation
 that represent interests in, or obligations backed by, pools of qualified
 loans. Securities issued under this section shall have maturities and bear
 rates of interest as determined by the Corporation.
 `(2) ISSUANCE OF DEBT OBLIGATIONS- The Corporation (and affiliates) may
 issue debt obligations solely for the purpose of obtaining amounts for
 the purchase of any securities under paragraph (1), for the purchase of
 qualified loans (as defined in section 8.0(9)(B)), and for maintaining
 reasonable amounts for business operations (including adequate liquidity)
 relating to activities under this subsection.
 `(3) TERMS AND LIMITATIONS-
 `(A) TERMS- The obligations issued under this subsection shall have
 maturities and bear rates of interest as determined by the Corporation,
 and may be redeemable at the option of the Corporation before maturity in
 the manner stipulated in the obligations.
 `(B) REQUIREMENT- Each obligation shall clearly indicate that the obligation
 is not an obligation of, and is not guaranteed as to principal and interest
 by, the Farm Credit Administration, the United States, or any other agency
 or instrumentality of the United States (other than the Corporation).
 `(C) AUTHORITY- The Corporation may not issue obligations pursuant to
 paragraph (2) under this subsection while any obligation issued by the
 Corporation under section 8.13(a) remains outstanding.'.
TITLE VI--CROP INSURANCE AND DISASTER ASSISTANCE
SEC. 601. FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE.
 The Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 506(d) (7 U.S.C. 1506(d))--
 (A) by striking `section 508(c)' and inserting `section 508(f)'; and
 (B) by striking the semicolon at the end and inserting a period;
 (2) in section 506(m) (7 U.S.C. 1506(m))--
 (A) by striking `wilfully' and inserting `willfully'; and
 (B) by striking `to' after `exceed';
 (3) in section 507(c)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1507(c)(2)), by inserting a comma after
 `private insurance companies';
 (4) in section 508(a) (7 U.S.C. 1508(a)), by striking `(1)';
 (5) in section 508 (7 U.S.C. 1508), by redesignating subsections (l),
 (m), and (n) as subsections (k), (l), and (m), respectively; and
 (6) in section 518 (7 U.S.C. 1518) by striking `subsection (a) or (i)'
 and inserting `subsection (a) or (k)'.
SEC. 602. DISASTER RELIEF.
 (a) 1989 ACT- Section 104(d)(1) of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (7
 U.S.C. 1421 note) is amended by inserting `(A)' after the paragraph heading.
 (b) 1988 ACT- Section 301(b) of the Disaster Assistance Act of 1988 (7
 U.S.C. 1464 note) (as amended by section 1541 of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990) is amended--
 (1) in the subsection heading, by striking `SUNFLOWER SEED' and inserting
 `SUNFLOWERSEED'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2)(A)--
 (A) by inserting a comma after `(7 U.S.C. 612c)' in clause (i);
 (B) by striking `such Act' in clause (i) and inserting `such section'; and
 (C) by striking `sunflower seed' in clause (iv) and inserting `sunflowerseed'.
 (c) CLARIFICATION OF AMENDMENT- Section 2232(a) of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 3959)
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `is amended to read:' and inserting `is amended by striking
 the material before the clauses and inserting the following:';
 (2) by inserting open double quotes before `(A)'; and
 (3) by moving the left margin of subparagraph (A) 2 ems to the right.
TITLE VII--RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SEC. 701. AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 306(a)- Section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm
 and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (11)(B)(ii)--
 (A) in subclause (I), by inserting `and' after the semicolon; and
 (B) in subclause (II), by striking `; and' and inserting a period; and
 (2) by striking paragraph (21).
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 306C(a)(2)- Subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section
 306C(a)(2) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1926c(a)(2) (A) and (B)) are each amended
 by moving the left margin of such subparagraphs 2 ems to the right.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 310B- Section 310B of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1932)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (i)(2)(B)(iv), by striking `(ii) of this subsection'
 and inserting `(iii) of this subparagraph';
 (2) in subsection (i)(5)(A), by striking `365(b)(3),' and inserting
 `365(b)(3)),';
 (3) by transferring to the end of such section the provision added by
 section 2386 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (104 Stat. 4051);
 (4) by redesignating the provision so transferred as subsection (j); and
 (5) in subsection (j) (as so redesignated), by striking `The Secretary'
 and inserting `GRANTS TO BROADCASTING SYSTEMS- The Secretary.
 (d) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 364(e)- Section 364(e) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2006f(e)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2), by striking `the date of enactment of this section'
 and inserting `November 28, 1990'; and
 (2) in paragraph (3), by striking `the date of enactment of this section'
 and inserting `November 28, 1990,'.
 (e) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 365(b)- Section 365(b) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2008(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking `(3)(C)' and inserting `(3)(A)(iii)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (5), by striking `(3)(B)' and inserting `(3)(A)(ii)'.
 (f) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 366(h)- Section 366(h) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2008a(h)) is amended by striking `of such officer' and inserting
 `of such officer's'.
 (g) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 367(b)(1)- Section 367(b)(1) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2008b(b)(1)) is amended by striking `365(b)(6)' and inserting
 `366(b)(6)'.
 (h) MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS-
 (1) IDENTICAL AMENDMENTS- Each of the following provisions of such Act is
 amended by striking `this Act' each place such term appears and inserting
 `this title':
 (A) Section 306(a)(12)(D) (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(12)(D)).
 (B) Section 306(a)(20) (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)(20)).
 (C) Section 310B(d)(5) (7 U.S.C. 1932(d)(5)).
 (D) Section 310B(d)(7) (7 U.S.C. 1932(d)(7)).
 (E) Section 331(b)(3) (7 U.S.C. 1981(b)(3)).
 (F) Section 346(b)(3)(C) (7 U.S.C. 1994(b)(3)(C)).
 (2) OTHER MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENT- Section 352(b)(3) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2000(b)(3)) is amended by striking `be'.
SEC. 702. AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD, AGRICULTURE, CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT
OF 1990.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2302(b)(1)- Section 2302(b)(1) of the  striking
 `the date of enactment of this section' and inserting `November 28, 1990'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 2311- Section 2311 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2007a)
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2)(A)(ii)--
 (A) by striking `4(b)' and inserting `4(e)';
 (B) by striking `the section 4(c)' and inserting `section 4(l)'; and
 (C) by striking `450b(c)))' and inserting `450b(l)))'; and
 (2) in paragraph (4), by striking `this Act' and inserting `this chapter'.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 2313- Section 2313 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2007c)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking `Fund established under paragraph
 (1)' and inserting `Rural Business Investment Fund';
 (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `fund established by subsection (a)'
 and inserting `Rural Business Investment Fund'; and
 (3) in subsection (c)(6), by inserting `Business Investment' before `Fund'.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2314(a)(1)(A)(i)- Section 2314(a)(1)(A)(i) of
 such Act (7 U.S.C. 2007d(a)(1)(A)(i)) is amended by striking `from the
 Fund under this chapter' and inserting `under this chapter from the Rural
 Business Investment Fund'.
 (e) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2315(d)(2)- Section 2315(d)(2) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 2007e(d)(2)) is amended by striking `engage in conduct, in'.
 (f) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 2322- Section 2322 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 1926-1)
 is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d)(1)(B)--
 (A) by striking `section 306(a)(9) and 306(a)(10)' and inserting `paragraphs
 (9) and (10) of section 306(a)'; and
 (B) by striking `sections 306(a)(19)(A) and (B)' and inserting `subparagraphs
 (A) and (B) of section 306(a)(19)'; and
 (2) in subsection (i)(1), by striking `and (3)'.
 (g) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 2332- Section 2332 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 950aaa-1) is
 amended by striking `Federal government' and inserting `Federal Government'.
 (h) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 2388(h)-
 (1) AMENDMENTS- Section 2388(h) of such Act (104 Stat. 4053) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting `and' after the semicolon;
 (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `; and' and inserting a period; and
 (C) by striking paragraph (3).
 (2) SPECIAL RULE- The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act shall be
 applied and administered as if the amendment made by 2388(h)(3) of the Food,
 Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 had never been enacted.
 (i) REPEAL OF SECTION 2388(i)- Subsection (i) of section 2388 of the Food,
 Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 4053) is
 hereby repealed and the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act shall
 be applied and administered as if the amendments made by such subsection
 had never been enacted.
SEC. 703. AMENDMENTS TO THE RURAL ELECTRIFICATION ACT OF 1936.
 (a) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 11A(e)- Section 11A(e) of the Rural Electrification
 Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 911a(e)) is amended by striking `1 percent' and
 inserting `2 percent'.
 (b) REPEAL OF SECTION 17- Section 17 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 917) is repealed.
 (c) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 501- Section 501 of such Act (7 U.S.C. 950aa)
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (6), by inserting `and' after the semicolon;
 (2) by striking paragraph (7); and
 (3) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (7).
 (d) AMENDMENT TO SECTION 502(a)(2)- Section 502(a)(2) of such Act (7
 U.S.C. 950aa-1(a)(2)) is amended by striking `as defined in this Act'.
SEC. 704. RURAL HEALTH LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 502(i)(1) of the Rural Development Act of 1972
 (7 U.S.C. 2662) (as redesignated by section 403(a)(2)(B) of this Act)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) RURAL HEALTH LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary, in consultation
 with the Office of Rural Health Policy of the Department of Health and
 Human Services, may make grants to academic medical centers or land grant
 colleges and universities, or any combination thereof, for the establishment
 of rural health leadership development education programs that shall assist
 rural communities in developing health care services and facilities that
 will provide the maximum benefit for the resources invested and assist
 community leaders and public officials in understanding their roles and
 responsibilities relative to rural health services and facilities, including--
 `(i) community decisions regarding funding for and retention of rural
 hospitals;
 `(ii) rural physician and allied health professionals recruitment and
 retention;
 `(iii) the aging rural population and senior services required to care for
 the population;
 `(iv) the establishment and maintenance of rural emergency medical services
 systems; and
 `(v) the application of computer-assisted capital budgeting decision aids
 for rural health services and facilities.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The first sentence of section 502(i)(4) of the
 Rural Development Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662) (as redesignated by section
 403(a)(2)(B) of this Act) is amended by inserting after `to States' the
 following `or entities described in paragraph (1)(C)'.
TITLE VIII--AGRICULTURAL PROMOTION
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
 Section 1901 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 6001 note; 104 Stat. 3838) is amended by striking `This Act'
 and inserting `This title'.
SEC. 802. PECANS.
 Subtitle A of title XIX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6001 et seq.; 104 Stat. 3838) is amended--
 (1) in section 1907(22) (7 U.S.C. 6002(22)), by striking `inshell' and
 inserting `in-shell';
 (2) in section 1910(b)(8)(G) (7 U.S.C. 6005(b)(8)(G))--
 (A) by striking `paragraph 3(A), (B), and (C),' and inserting `subparagraphs
 (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (3),'; and
 (B) by striking `paragraph (3)(D) and (E)' and inserting `subparagraphs
 (D) and (E) of paragraph (3)'; and
 (3) in section 1915(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 6010(b)(2)), by striking `section'
 after `1913 or'.
SEC. 803. MUSHROOMS.
 Subtitle B of title XIX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6101 et seq.; 104 Stat. 3854) is amended--
 (1) in section 1925(h) (7 U.S.C. 6104(h)), by striking `government' and
 inserting `governmental';
 (2) in section 1928(d)(1)(A) (7 U.S.C. 6107(d)(1)(A)), by striking `United
 States district court' and inserting `United States District Court; and
 (3) in section 1929(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 6108(b)(2)), by striking `section'
 after `1927 or'.
SEC. 804. POTATOES.
 Section 310(a)(2) of the Potato Research and Promotion Act (7
 U.S.C. 2619(a)(2)) is amended by striking `(2) when' and inserting `(2) When'.
SEC. 805. LIMES.
 Subtitle D of title XIX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501 et seq.; 104 Stat. 3870) is amended--
 (1) in section 1955(e)(1)(B) (7 U.S.C. 6204(e)(1)(B)), by striking `government
 employees' and inserting `Government employees';
 (2) in section 1958(d)(1) (7 U.S.C. 6207(d)(1)), by striking `United States
 district court' and inserting `United States District Court'; and
 (3) in section 1959(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 6208(b)(2)), by striking `section'
 after `1957 or'.
SEC. 806. SOYBEANS.
 Subtitle E of title XIX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.; 104 Stat. 3881) is amended--
 (1) in section 1969 (7 U.S.C. 6304)--
 (A) in subsection (g)(2)(A)(ii), by striking `Argicultural' and inserting
 `Agricultural';
 (B) in subsection (l)(2)(F)(vii)(V), by striking `that requests' and inserting
 `that request'; and
 (C) in subsection (q)(4)--
 (i) by inserting a comma after `and'; and
 (ii) by striking the semicolon after `Board';
 (2) in section 1970(b)(3) (7 U.S.C. 6305(b)(3)), by striking `this Act'
 and inserting `this subtitle'; and
 (3) in section 1974 (7 U.S.C. 6309)--
 (A) in subsection (b)(3), by striking `section 1969(k)(4)' and inserting
 `section 1969(l)(4)'; and
 (B) by redesignating the second subsection (b) as subsection (c).
SEC. 807. HONEY.
 The Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act (7 U.S.C. 4601
 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 9(h) (7 U.S.C. 4608(h)), by inserting `to' before `an
 importer'; and
 (2) in section 11A(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 4610a(b)(2)), by striking `section'
 after `10 or'.
SEC. 808. COTTON.
 (a) COTTON PROMOTION ACT- The Cotton Research and Promotion Act (7 U.S.C. 2101
 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 7(e)(4) (7 U.S.C. 2106(e)(4)), by striking `title' and
 inserting `Act';
 (2) in section 8(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 2107(b)(2)), by striking `section 17C(2)'
 and inserting `section 17(c)(2)';
 (3) in section 10(b) (7 U.S.C. 2109(b)), by striking `section 8(b) or 8(c)'
 and inserting `subsection (b) or (c) of section 8'; and
 (4) in section 11(a) (7 U.S.C. 2110(a))--
 (A) by inserting `of this Act' after `section'; and
 (B) by striking `of this Act,' after `subsection (b),'.
 (b) REPORTS- Section 1998 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2101 note; 104 Stat. 3913) is amended by striking
 `title' each place it appears in subsections (a) and (b) and inserting
 `subtitle'.
SEC. 809. FLUID MILK.
 Section 1999L(b) of the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6411(b);
 104 Stat. 3922) is amended by striking `this subsection' and inserting
 `this section'.
SEC. 810. WOOL.
 Section 708 of the National Wool Act of 1954 (7 U.S.C. 1787) is amended
 by inserting after the third sentence the following new sentence:  `In any
 agreement entered into under this section, the Secretary shall prohibit the
 use of any funds made available through pro rata deductions from payments
 under section 704 of this title in any manner for the purpose of influencing
 legislation or government action or policy, except for the development or
 recommendation to the Secretary of amendments to the research and promotion
 program.'.
TITLE IX--FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS
Subtitle A--Food Stamp Program
SEC. 901. APPLICATION OF FOOD STAMP ACT OF 1977 TO DISABLED PERSONS.
 Section 3 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2012) is amended by
 inserting after `title I, II, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act'
 both places it appears in subsections (g)(7) and (i) the following: `, or
 are individuals described in paragraphs (2) through (7) of subsection (r),'.
SEC. 902. CATEGORICAL ELIGIBILITY FOR RECIPIENTS OF GENERAL ASSISTANCE.
 The third sentence of section 5(a) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7
 U.S.C. 2014(a)) is amended by striking `appropriate for categorical treatment'
 and inserting `based on income criteria comparable to or more restrictive
 than those under subsection (c)(2), and not limited to one-time emergency
 payments that cannot be provided for more than one consecutive month,'.
SEC. 903. EXCLUSIONS FROM INCOME.
 Section 5(d) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `to the extent' and all that follows
 through `involved)' and inserting `awarded to a household member enrolled';
 and
 (B) in subparagraph (B)--
 (i) by inserting after `amount' the following: `used for or'; and
 (ii) by striking `or program for' and inserting `program, or other grantor,
 for tuition and mandatory fees (including the rental or purchase of any
 equipment, materials, and supplies related to the pursuit of the course of
 study involved),';
 (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (14); and
 (3) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `, and (16) any
 amounts necessary for the fulfillment of a plan for achieving self-support
 of a household member as provided under section 1612(b)(4)(B)(iv) of the
 Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1382a(b)(4)(B)(iv))'.
SEC. 904. RESOURCES THAT CANNOT BE SOLD FOR A SIGNIFICANT RETURN.
 Section 5(g)(5) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(g)(5)) is
 amended by adding at the end the following new sentences: `A resource shall
 be so identified if its sale or other disposition is unlikely to produce any
 significant amount of funds for the support of the household. The Secretary
 shall not require the State agency to require verification of the value
 of a resource to be excluded under this paragraph unless the State agency
 determines that the information provided by the household is questionable.'.
SEC. 905. RESOURCE EXEMPTION FOR HOUSEHOLDS EXEMPT UNDER AFDC OR SSI.
 Subsection (j) of section 5 of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(j))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(j) Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (i), a State agency shall
 consider a household member who receives supplemental security income benefits
 under title XVI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1382 et seq.), aid
 to the aged, blind, or disabled under title I, II, X, XIV, or XVI of such
 Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.), or who receives benefits under a State plan
 approved under part A of title IV of such Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) to
 have satisfied the resource limitations prescribed under subsection (g).'.
SEC. 906. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT ON TRANSITIONAL HOUSING.
 Section 5(k)(2)(F) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(k)(2)(F))
 is amended by inserting before the semicolon the following: `, if the
 State agency calculates a shelter allowance to be paid under the State plan
 separate and apart from payments for other household needs even though it
 may be paid in combination with other allowances in some cases'.
SEC. 907. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subparagraph (L) of section 6(d)(4) of the Food Stamp Act
 of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)(L)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(L)(i) The Secretary shall establish performance standards and measures
 applicable to employment and training programs carried out under this
 paragraph that are based on employment outcomes, including increases in
 earnings.
 `(ii) Final performance standards and measures referred to in clause (i)
 shall be published not later than 12 months after the date that the final
 outcome-based performance standards are published for job opportunities
 and basic skills training programs under part F of title IV of the Social
 Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq.).
 `(iii) The standards shall encourage States to serve those individuals who
 have greater barriers to employment and shall take into account the extent
 to which persons have elected to participate in employment and training
 programs under this paragraph. The standards shall require participants to
 make levels of efforts comparable to those required under the regulations
 set forth in section 273.7(f)(1) of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations
 in effect on January 1, 1991.
 `(iv) The performance standards in effect under subparagraph (K) shall
 remain in effect during the period beginning on October 1, 1988, and ending
 on the date the Secretary implements the outcome-based performance standards
 described in this subparagraph.
 `(v) A State agency shall be considered in compliance with applicable
 performance standards under subparagraph (K) if the State agency operates an
 employment and training program in a manner consistent with its approved plan
 and if the program requires participants to make levels of effort comparable
 to those required under the regulations set forth in section 273.7(f)(1)
 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations in effect on January 1, 1991.'.
 (b) LIMITATION- Section 6(d)(4)(K)(i) of such Act is amended--
 (1) by striking `50 percent through September 30, 1989' and inserting `10
 percent in fiscal years 1992 and 1993, and 15 percent in fiscal years 1994
 and 1995'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `The Secretary shall
 not require the plan of a State agency to provide for the participation of a
 number of recipients greater than 10 percent in fiscal years 1992 and 1993,
 and 15 percent in fiscal years 1994 and 1995, of the persons who are subject
 to employment requirements under this section and who are not exempt under
 subparagraph (D).'.
SEC. 908. SUSPENSION OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS, AND STUDY, OF FOOD STAMP
PROGRAM ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS.
 (a) SUSPENSION OF REQUIREMENTS-
 (1) STAGGERED ISSUANCE OF COUPONS- No State agency shall be required to
 implement section 7(h)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2016(h)(1)),
 regarding the staggering of issuance of food stamp coupons, until April 1,
 1993. The Secretary of Agriculture shall issue final regulations requiring
 the staggered issuance of coupons no later than December 1, 1992.
 (2) EXEMPTION FROM MONTHLY REPORTING SYSTEMS- No State agency shall be
 required to exempt households residing on Indian reservations from food stamp
 program monthly reporting systems until April 1, 1993. The Secretary shall
 issue final regulations requiring the exemption of households residing on
 Indian reservations from food stamp program monthly reporting systems no
 later than December 1, 1992.
 (b) STUDY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall report to
 the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry of the Senate and the
 Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives on the difficulties
 that residents of Indian reservations experience in obtaining food stamp
 benefits, in using food stamp benefits, and in purchasing food economically
 with food stamps.
 (2) COMPONENTS- In carrying out paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall--
 (A) examine whether monthly reporting requirements are a burden to food
 stamp households residing on Indian reservations;
 (B) examine whether prices at food stores serving reservations are increased
 during the parts of months when food stamps are issued or are decreased
 during times of the month when most households have exhausted their food
 stamp allotments;
 (C) examine whether eligible households residing on reservations would
 prefer that the households' food stamp issuances be--
 (i) staggered throughout the month;
 (ii) concentrated on the same day of each month; or
 (iii) staggered during approximately the first 2 weeks of the month; and
 (D) analyze problems associated with transportation difficulties in terms
 of food stamp program participation and any actions that could be taken at
 the Federal, State, or local level to remedy the problems.
 (3) CONSULTATION- In completing the report and recommendations, the
 Comptroller General shall consult with Indian tribes, State agencies,
 and other appropriate parties.
SEC. 909. VALUE OF ALLOTMENT.
 Section 8(b) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2017(b)) is amdnded--
 (1) by striking `the allotment provided any eligible household' and inserting
 `benefits that may be provided under this Act, whether through coupons,
 access devices, or otherwise'; and
 (2) by striking `an allotment' and inserting `benefits'.
SEC. 910. PRORATING WITHIN A CERTIFICATION PERIOD.
 Section 8(c) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2017(c)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
 `Households shall receive full months' allotments for all months within
 a certification period, except as provided in the first sentence of this
 paragraph with respect to an initial month.'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking `previous participation in such
 program' and inserting `the expiration of a certification period or after
 the termination of the certification of a household, during a certification
 period, when the household ceased to be eligible after notice and an
 opportunity for a hearing under section 11(e)(10)'.
SEC. 911. RECOVERY OF CLAIMS CAUSED BY NONFRAUDULENT HOUSEHOLD ERRORS.
 The first sentence of section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977
 (7 U.S.C. 2022(b)(2)(A)) is amended by inserting before the period the
 following: `, except that the household shall be given notice permitting
 it to elect another means of repayment and given 10 days to make such an
 election before the State agency commences action to reduce the household's
 monthly allotment'.
SEC. 912. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS FOR VEHICLE EXCLUSION LIMIT.
 The Secretary of Agriculture shall solicit requests to participate in the
 demonstration projects required by section 17(h) of the Food Stamp Act
 of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2026(h)) by May 1, 1992. The projects shall commence
 operations no later than January 1, 1993.
SEC. 913. DEFINITION OF RETAIL FOOD STORE.
 Section 11002(f)(3) of the Homeless Eligibility Clarification Act (Public Law
 99-570; 7 U.S.C. 2012 note) is amended by striking `and (b)' and inserting `,
 (b), and (c)'.
Subtitle B--Commodity Distribution
SEC. 921. EXTENSION OF ELDERLY COMMODITY PROCESSING DEMONSTRATIONS.
 Section 1114(a)(2)(D) of the Agriculture and Food Act of 1981 (7
 U.S.C. 1431e(2)(D)) is amended by striking `1992 and 1993' and inserting
 `1992, 1993, and 1994'.
SEC. 922. REDUCTION OF FEDERAL PAPERWORK FOR DISTRIBUTION OF COMMODITIES.
 (a) HUNGER PREVENTION ACT- Section 110 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988
 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended--
 (1) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c), by inserting after
 `to needy persons' each place it appears the following: `and to other
 institutions that can demonstrate, in accordance with subsection (j)(3),
 that they serve predominantly needy persons'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
 `(j) PRIORITY SYSTEM FOR STATE DISTRIBUTION OF COMMODITIES-
 `(1) SOUP KITCHENS- In distributing commodities under this section,
 the distributing agency, under procedures determined appropriate by the
 distributing agency, shall offer, or otherwise make available, its full
 allocation of commodities for distribution to soup kitchens and other like
 organizations that serve meals to homeless persons, and to food banks for
 distribution to such organizations.
 `(2) INSTITUTIONS THAT SERVE ONLY LOW-INCOME RECIPIENTS- If distributing
 agencies determine that they will not likely exhaust their allocation of
 commodities under this section through distribution to institutions referred
 to in paragraph (1), the distributing agencies shall make the remaining
 commodities available to food banks for distribution to institutions that
 distribute commodities to the needy. When such institutions distribute
 commodities to individuals for home consumption, eligibility for such
 commodities shall be determined through a means test as determined appropriate
 by the State distributing agency.
 `(3) OTHER INSTITUTIONS- If the distributing agency's commodity allocation is
 not likely to be exhausted after distribution under paragraphs (1) and (2)
 (as determined by the food bank), food banks may distribute the remaining
 commodities to institutions that serve meals to needy persons and do not
 employ a means test to determine eligibility for such meals, provided that
 the organizations have documented, to the satisfaction of the food bank,
 that the organizations do, in fact, serve predominantly needy persons.
 `(k) SETTLEMENT AND ADJUSTMENT OF CLAIMS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary or a designee of the Secretary shall have
 the authority to--
 `(A) determine the amount of, settle, and adjust any claim arising under
 this section; and
 `(B) waive such a claim if the Secretary determines that to do so will
 serve the purposes of this section.
 `(2) LITIGATION- Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed
 to diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States
 under section 516 of title 28, United States Code, to conduct litigation
 on behalf of the United States.'.
 (b) EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE ACT- The Emergency Food Assistance Act of
 1983 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 215. SETTLEMENT AND ADJUSTMENT OF CLAIMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary or a designee of the Secretary shall have
 the authority to--
 `(1) determine the amount of, settle, and adjust any claim arising under
 this Act; and
 `(2) waive such a claim if the Secretary determines that to do so will
 serve the purposes of this Act.
 `(b) LITIGATION- Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
 diminish the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under
 section 516 of title 28, United States Code, to conduct litigation on behalf
 of the United States.'.
 (c) COMMODITY SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM- Section 5 of the Agriculture and
 Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new subsection:
 `(k)(1) The Secretary or a designee of the Secretary shall have the
 authority to--
 `(A) determine the amount of, settle, and adjust any claim arising under
 the commodity supplemental food program; and
 `(B) waive such a claim if the Secretary determines that to do so will
 serve the purposes of the program.
 `(2) Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to diminish
 the authority of the Attorney General of the United States under section
 516 of title 28, United States Code, to conduct litigation on behalf of
 the United States.'.
Subtitle C--Indian Subsistence Farming Demonstration Grant
SEC. 931. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this subtitle are to--
 (1) provide technical assistance and training through the Extension Service
 in the Department of Agriculture to Indian tribes and Alaska Natives for
 the development and operation of subsistence farming programs to improve
 the nutritional health of Indians living on or near Indian reservations;
 (2) establish the Indian subsistence farming demonstration grant program
 within the Department of Agriculture; and
 (3) provide a supplemental source of fresh produce for Indians and Alaska
 Natives who--
 (A) have special dietary needs;
 (B) are participating in--
 (i) the food stamp program established under the Food Stamp Act of 1977
 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.); or
 (ii) the food distribution program on Indian reservations established under
 section 4(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2013(b)); or
 (C) have income below 185 percent of the poverty line referred to in section
 5(c)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(c)(1)).
SEC. 932. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this subtitle:
 (1) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENT- The term `eligible recipient' means an Indian who--
 (A) is identified by the Secretary as having special dietary needs;
 (B) is participating in--
 (i) the food stamp program established under the Food Stamp Act of 1977
 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.); or
 (ii) the food distribution program on Indian reservations established under
 section 4(b) of such Act (7 U.S.C. 2013(b)); or
 (C) has income below 185 percent of the poverty line referred to in section
 5(c)(1) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(c)(1)).
 (2) INDIAN- The term `Indian' means a person who is a member of an Indian
 tribe, or who is an Alaska Native and a member of a Regional Corporation
 (as defined in section 3(g) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
 (43 U.S.C. 1602(g)).
 (3) INDIAN RESERVATION- The term `Indian reservation' has the same meaning
 given to the term `reservation' under section 3(d) of the Indian Financing
 Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452(d)).
 (4) INDIAN TRIBE- The term `Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe, band,
 nation, or other organized group or community (including any Alaska Native
 village, Regional Corporation, or Regional Corporation (as defined in
 or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43
 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)), which is recognized as eligible for the special
 services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status
 as Indians.
 (5) INTER-TRIBAL CONSORTIUM- The term `inter-tribal consortium' means a
 partnership between--
 (A) an Indian tribe or tribal organization on an Indian reservation; and
 (B) one or more Indian tribes or tribal organizations of other Indian tribes.
 (6) PROGRAM- The term `program' means any subsistence farming program funded
 or assisted under this subtitle.
 (7) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
SEC. 933. INDIAN SUBSISTENCE FARMING DEMONSTRATION GRANT PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may establish an Indian subsistence farming
 demonstration grant program that provides grants to any Indian tribe, or
 intertribal consortium, for the establishment on Indian reservations of
 subsistence farming operations that grow fresh produce for distribution to
 eligible recipients.
 (b) APPLICATION- Any Indian tribe or tribal consortium may submit to
 the Secretary an application for a grant under this subtitle. Any such
 application shall--
 (1) be in such form as the Secretary may prescribe;
 (2) be submitted to the Secretary on or before the date designated by the
 Secretary; and
 (3) specify--
 (A) the nature and scope of the subsistence farming project proposed by
 the applicant;
 (B) the extent to which the project plans to use or incorporate existing
 resources and services available on the reservation; and
 (C) the number of Indians who are projected as eligible recipients of
 produce grown under the project.
SEC. 934. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
 The Extension Service may conduct, with respect to the projects established
 under this title, site surveys, workshops, short courses, training, and
 technical assistance on such topics as nutrition food preservation and
 preparation techniques, spacing, depth of seed placement, soil types,
 and other aspects of subsistence farming operations.
SEC. 935. TRIBAL CONSULTATION.
 An Indian tribe participating in any subsistence farming program established
 under this subtitle shall consult with appropriate tribal and Indian Health
 Service officials regarding the specific dietary needs of the population
 to be served by the operation of the Indian subsistence farming project.
SEC. 936. USE OF GRANTS.
 Funds provided under this subtitle may be used for--
 (1) the purchase or lease of agricultural machinery, equipment, and tools
 for the operation of the program;
 (2) the purchase of seeds, fertilizers, and such other resources as may be
 required for the operation of the program;
 (3) the construction of greenhouses, fences, and other structures or
 facilities;
 (4) accounting and distribution of produce grown under the program; and
 (5) the employment of persons for the management and operation of the program.
SEC. 937. AMOUNT AND TERM OF GRANT.
 (a) AMOUNT- The maximum amount of any grant awarded under this subtitle
 shall not exceed $50,000.
 (b) TERM- The maximum term of any grant awarded under this subtitle shall
 be 3 years.
SEC. 938. OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
 Each recipient of a grant awarded under this subtitle shall--
 (1) furnish the Secretary with such information as the Secretary may
 require to--
 (A) evaluate the program for which the grant is made;
 (B) ensure that the grant funds are expended for the purposes for which
 the grant was made; and
 (C) ensure that the produce grown is distributed to eligible recipients on
 the reservation; and
 (2) submit to the Secretary at the close of the term of the grant a final
 report that shall include such information as the Secretary may require.
SEC. 939. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subtitle $2,000,000
 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1995.
Subtitle D--Technical Amendments
SEC. 941. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE FOOD STAMP ACT OF 1977.
 The Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 3 (7 U.S.C. 2012)--
 (A) in subsection (j), by striking `section 3(p) of this Act' and inserting
 `subsection (p)';
 (B) in subsection (o)(6), by striking `per centun' and inserting `percent';
 and
 (C) by redesignating subsection (u) as subsection (t);
 (2) in section 5 (7 U.S.C. 2014)--
 (A) in subsection (d)(2), by striking `section 5(f) of this Act' and inserting
 `subsection (f)';
 (B) in subsection (h)(1), by striking `Disaster Relief and Emergency
 Assistance Act' and inserting `Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
 Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)'; and
 (C) in subsection (k)(2), by moving the margin of subparagraph (E) to the
 left so as to align with the margin of subparagraph (D);
 (3) in section 6 (7 U.S.C. 2015)--
 (A) in subsection (c)(1)(A), by moving the margin of clause (ii) to the
 left so as to align with the margin of clause (i);
 (B) in subsection (d)(1)(A)--
 (i) by striking `who is physically' and inserting `who is a physically';
 (ii) by striking `Secretary;' in clause (i) and all that follows through
 `refuses' in clause (ii) and inserting `Secretary; (ii) refuses'; and
 (iii) by striking `two months' in clause (ii) and all that follows through
 `refuses' in clause (iii) and inserting `two months; or (iii) refuses';
 (C) in subsection (d)(4)(B)(vii)--
 (i) by striking `Secretary,,' and inserting `Secretary,'; and
 (ii) by striking `aimed an' and inserting `aimed at';
 (D) in subsection (d)(4)(D)(iii), by striking `clauses (i) or (ii)' and
 inserting `clause (i) or (ii)'; and
 (E) in subsection (d)(4)(I)(i)(II)--
 (i) by striking `601 et seq.))' and inserting `601 et seq.)'; and
 (ii) by striking `, but in' and inserting `), but in';
 (4) in section 9(a)(1) (7 U.S.C. 2018(a)(1)), by redesignating paragraphs
 (1), (2), and (3) as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
 (5) in section 11(e) (7 U.S.C. 2020(e))--
 (A) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 a semicolon;
 (B) in paragraph (3)--
 (i) in subparagraph (D), by inserting a close parenthesis after `section
 6'; and
 (ii) in subparagraph (E), by striking `verified under this Act, and that
 the State agency shall provide the household' and inserting `verified under
 this Act,
and that the State agency shall provide the household'; and
 (C) in paragraph (15), by striking the period at the end and inserting
 a semicolon;
 (6) in section 11 (7 U.S.C. 2020), by redesignating subsection (p) as
 subsection (b) and transferring such subsection to the location after
 subsection (a);
 (7) in section 16 (7 U.S.C. 2025)--
 (A) in subsection (g), by inserting a comma after `1991'; and
 (B) in subsection (h)(4), by striking `the Act' and inserting `this Act';
 (8) in the first sentence of section 17(b)(3)(C) (7 U.S.C. 2026(b)(3)(C)),
 by striking `402(g)(1)(A)' and inserting `402(g)(1)(A))';
 (9) in section 19(b)(1)(A)(i) (7 U.S.C. 2028(b)(1)(A)(i)), by striking
 `directly.' and inserting `directly';
 (10) in section 20(g)(2) (7 U.S.C. 2029(g)(2))--
 (A) by moving the margins of subparagraphs (A) and (B) 2 ems to the left; and
 (B) in subparagraph (B), by moving the margins of clauses (i) and (ii)
 2 ems to the left; and
 (11) in section 22 (7 U.S.C. 2031)--
 (A) by inserting the following section heading above the section designation:
`FOOD STAMP PORTION OF MINNESOTA FAMILY INVESTMENT PLAN';
 (B) in subsection (d)(2)(B), by striking `paragraph (b)(3)(D)(iii)' and
 inserting `subsection (b)(3)(D)(iii)'; and
 (C) in subsection (h), by striking `subsection b(12)' and inserting
 `subsection (b)(12)'.
SEC. 942. AMENDMENT RELATING TO THE HUNGER PREVENTION ACT OF 1988.
 Section 1772(h)(5) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3809) is amended by striking `Relief'
 and inserting `Prevention'.
TITLE X--MISCELLANEOUS TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
SEC. 1001. ORGANIC CERTIFICATION.
 Title XXI of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3935) is amended--
 (1) in section 2105 (7 U.S.C. 6504), by striking the period at the end of
 paragraph (2) and inserting `; and';
 (2) in section 2110 (7 U.S.C. 6509)--
 (A) in subsection (d)(1)(B), by striking `paraciticides' and inserting
 `parasiticides'; and
 (B) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g);
 (3) in section 2111(a)(1) (7 U.S.C. 6510(a)(1)), by striking `post harvest'
 and inserting `postharvest';
 (4) in section 2112(b) (7 U.S.C. 6511(b)), by striking `PRE-HARVEST' and
 inserting `PREHARVEST';
 (5) in section 2116(j)(2) (7 U.S.C. 6515(j)(2)), by striking `certifying
 such' and inserting `such certifying';
 (6) in section 2118(c)(1)(B)(i) (7 U.S.C. 6517(c)(1)(B)(i)), by striking
 `paraciticides' and inserting `parasiticides'; and
 (7) in section 2119(a) (7 U.S.C. 6518(a)), by striking `(to' and inserting
 `to';
 (8) in section 2120(f) (7 U.S.C. 6519(f)), by inserting a comma after
 `et seq.)' the first place it appears; and
 (9) in section 2121(b) (7 U.S.C. 6520(b)), by striking `District Court for
 the District' and inserting `district court for the district'.
SEC. 1002. AGRICULTURAL FELLOWSHIPS.
 Section 1543(e) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act
 of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 3293; 104 Stat. 3694) is amended by striking `Program'
 and inserting `program'.
SEC. 1003. OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE FOR SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED FARMERS AND
RANCHERS.
 Section 2501 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 2279) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking `section' and inserting `subsection';
 (2) in subsection (c)(1)(C), by inserting `program' after `agricultural'; and
 (3) in subsection (d)(3), by striking `Not later than 1 year after the date
 of enactment of this Act,' and inserting `Not later than November 28, 1991,'.
SEC. 1004. PROTECTION OF PETS.
 Section 28(b)(2)(F) of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2158(b)(2)(F))
 is amended by striking `subsection (b)' and inserting `subsection (a)'.
SEC. 1005. CRITICAL AGRICULTURAL MATERIALS.
 The Critical Agricultural Materials Act (7 U.S.C. 178 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 5(b)(9) (7 U.S.C. 178c(b)(9)), by striking the first comma
 after `industrial purposes'; and
 (2) in section 11 (7 U.S.C. 178i), by striking `insure' both places it
 appears and inserting `ensure'.
SEC. 1006. AMENDMENTS TO FIFRA AND RELATED PROVISIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
 is amended--
 (1) in section 2(e)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136(e)(1))--
 (A) by striking `section 4' and inserting `section 11';
 (B) by striking `use' in the second sentence and inserting `uses'; and
 (C) by striking `section 2(ee) of this Act' and inserting `subsection (ee)';
 (2) in section 2(q)(2)(A)(i) (7 U.S.C. 136(q)(2)(A)(i)), by striking `size
 of form' and inserting `size or form';
 (3) in section 3(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(1))--
 (A) by striking subparagraphs (E) and (F);
 (B) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (F);
 (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
 `(D) the complete formula of the pesticide;
 `(E) a request that the pesticide be classified for general use or for
 restricted use, or for both; and'; and
 (D) in subparagraph (F) (as so redesignated)--
 (i) by striking `(i) with' and inserting `(i) With';
 (ii) by striking the semicolon at the end of clauses (i), (ii), and (iii)
 and inserting a period;
 (iii) by striking `(ii) except' and inserting `(ii) Except'; and
 (iv) by striking `(iii) after' and inserting `(iii) After';
 (4) by conforming the left margin of paragraph (3) of section 4(f) (7
 U.S.C. 136a-1(f)) to the left margin of the preceding paragraph;
 (5) in section 6(f)(3)(B) (7 U.S.C. 136d(f)(3)(B)), by striking `an
 unreasonable adverse affect' and inserting `an unreasonable adverse effect';
 (6) in section 11 (7 U.S.C. 136i)--
 (A) in the section heading, by striking `appplicators' and inserting
 `applicators';
 (B) in subsection (b), by striking `this paragraph' each place it appears
 and inserting `subsection (a)(2)'; and
 (C) in subsection (c), by striking `subsections (a) and (b)' and inserting
 `subsection (a)';
 (7) in section 12(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 136j(a)(2))--
 (A) by striking `thereunder. It' in subparagraph (F) and inserting
 `thereunder, except that it';
 (B) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (O); and
 (C) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (P) and inserting
 a semicolon;
 (8) in section 14(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 136l(a)(2))--
 (A) by striking `: Provided, That' and inserting `, except that'; and
 (B) by striking `use' and inserting `uses';
 (9) in section 17(a) (7 U.S.C. 136o), by removing the last sentence from
 paragraph (2) and placing it as full measure sentence under such paragraph;
 (10) in section 20(a) (7 U.S.C. 136r(a)), by striking `insure' and inserting
 `ensure'; and
 (11) in section 26(c) (7 U.S.C. 136w-1(c)), by striking `use' and inserting
 `uses'.
 (b) GENDER-
 (1) Such Act is amended by striking `he' each place it appears in sections
 3(c)(2)(A), 3(c)(5), 3(c)(6), 3(d)(1)(A), 3(d)(1)(B), 3(d)(1)(C), 3(d)(2),
 5(b), 5(e), 5(f), 6(a)(1), 6(b), 6(c)(1), 6(c)(3), 7(b), 8(a), 9(c)(3), 10(c),
 11(b), 16(b), 16(d), 18, 20(a), 21(b), 25(a)(3), 25(b), 25(c)(5), and 25(d)
 (7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(2)(A), 136a(c)(5), 136a(c)(6), 136a(d)(1)(A), 136a(d)(1)(B),
 136a(d)(1)(C), 136a(d)(2), 136c(b), 136c(e), 136c(f), 136d(a)(1), 136d(b),
 136d(c)(1), 136d(c)(3), 136e(b), 136f(a), 136g(c)(3), 136h(c), 136i(b),
 136n(b), 136n(d), 136p, 136r(a), 136s(b), 136w(a)(3), 136w(b), 136w(c)(5),
 and 136w(d)) and inserting `the Administrator'.
 (2) Such Act is amended by striking `his' each place it appears in sections
 3(c)(2)(A), 3(c)(3)(A), 3(c)(6), 6(b), 6(c)(1), 6(d), 10(b), 11(a)(2), 16(b),
 17(c), 18, 21(b), and 25(c)(4) (7 U.S.C. 136a(c)(2)(A), 136a(c)(3)(A),
 136a(c)(6), 136d(b), 136d(c)(1), 136d(d), 136h(b), 136i(a)(2), 136n(b),
 136o(c), 136p, 136s(b), and 136w(c)(4)) and inserting `the Administrator's'.
 (3) Such Act is amended--
 (A) in section 2(e)(2) (7 U.S.C. 136(e)(2)), by striking `him or his'
 and inserting `the applicator or the applicator's';
 (B) in section 2(e)(3), by striking `he' and inserting `the applicator';
 (C) in section 6(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 136d(a)(2), by striking `he' and inserting
 `the registrant';
 (D) in section 6(c)(3), by striking `him' and inserting `the Administrator';
 (E) in section 6(d), by striking `him' and inserting `the Administrator';
 (F) in section 7(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136e(c)(1)), by striking `he' each place
 it appears and inserting `the producer';
 (G) in section 7(c)(2)--
 (i) by striking `him' and inserting `the Administrator'; and
 (ii) by striking `he' and inserting `the producer';
 (H) in the fourth sentence of section 9(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 136g(a)(2)), by
 striking `he' and inserting `the officer or employee';
 (I) in the third sentence of section 9(c)(1), by striking `his' and inserting
 `the person's';
 (J) in section 10(a) (7 U.S.C. 136h(a)), by striking `his' and inserting
 `the applicant's';
 (K) in section 11(a)(1) (7 U.S.C. 136i(a)(1))--
 (i) in the ninth sentence, by striking `his' and inserting `the applicator';
 and
 (ii) in the last sentence, by striking `him' and inserting `the
 Administrator';
 (L) in section 12(a)(2)(C) (7 U.S.C. 136j(a)(2)(C))--
 (i) by striking `his' and inserting `the person's'; and
 (ii) by striking `he' and inserting `the person';
 (M) in section 12(a)(2)(D), by striking `his' and inserting `the person's';
 (N) in section 12(b)(1)--
 (i) by striking `he' and inserting `the person';
 (ii) by striking `him' and inserting `the person';
 (O) in section 12(b)(3), by striking `his official duties' and inserting
 `the official duties of the public official'; and
 (P) in the second sentence of section 16(b) (7 U.S.C. 136n(b)), by striking
 `him' and inserting `the Administrator'.
 (c) UNEXECUTABLE AMENDMENT- The phrase sought to be struck in section
 102(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act
 Amendments of 1988 (Public Law 100-532; 102 Stat. 2667) shall be deemed to be
 `an end-use product'.
 (d) RECORDKEEPING- Section 1491 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 136i-1) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking `(7 U.S.C. 136a(d)(1)(C))' and inserting
 `(7 U.S.C. 136a(d)(1)(C)))'; and
 (2) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting `of' after `fine'.
 (e) MAINTENANCE FEE- Paragraph (5) of section 4(i) of the Federal Insecticide,
 Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(i)(5)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(5) Maintenance fee-
 `(A) Subject to other provisions of this paragraph, each registrant of a
 pesticide shall pay an annual fee by January 15 of each year of--
 `(i) $650 for the first registration; and
 `(ii) $1,300 for each additional registration, except that no fee shall be
 charged for more than 200 registrations held by any registrant.
 `(B) In the case of a pesticide that is registered for a minor agricultural
 use, the Administrator may reduce or waive the payment of the fee imposed
 under this paragraph if the Administrator determines that the fee would
 significantly reduce the availability of the pesticide for the use.
 `(C) The amount of each fee prescribed under subparagraph (A) shall be
 adjusted by the Administrator to a level that will result in the collection
 under this paragraph of, to the extent practicable, an aggregate amount of
 $14,000,000 each fiscal year.
 `(D) The maximum annual fee payable under this paragraph by--
 `(i) a registrant holding not more than 50 pesticide registrations shall
 be $55,000; and
 `(ii) a registrant holding over 50 registrations shall be $95,000.
 `(E)(i) For a small business, the maximum annual fee payable under this
 paragraph by--
 `(I) a registrant holding not more than 50 pesticide registrations shall
 be $38,500; and
 `(II) a registrant holding over 50 pesticide registrations shall be $66,500.
 `(ii) For purposes of clause (i), the term `small business' means a
 corporation, partnership, or unincorporated business that--
 `(I) has 150 or fewer employees; and
 `(II) during the 3-year period prior to the most recent maintenance fee
 billing cycle, had an average annual gross revenue from chemicals that did
 not exceed $40,000,000.
 `(F) If any fee prescribed by this paragraph with respect to the registration
 of a pesticide is not paid by a registrant by the time prescribed, the
 Administrator, by order and without hearing, may cancel the registration.
 `(G) The authority provided under this paragraph shall terminate on September
 30, 1997.'.
 (f) REGISTRATION AND EXPEDITED PROCESSING FUND- Section 4(k)(3)(A) of such
 Act (7 U.S.C. 136a-1(k)(3)(A)) is amended by striking `each fiscal year
 not more than $2,000,000 of the amounts in the fund' and inserting `for
 each of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994,  1/7 th of the maintenance
 fees collected, up to $2 million each year'.
SEC. 1007. GRAIN STANDARDS.
 The United States Grain Standards Act (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 3 (7 U.S.C. 75), by striking `The' in subsections (i), (j),
 (k), (u), (v), (w), (x), (z), and (aa) and inserting `the';
 (2) in section 16(a) (7 U.S.C. 87e(a)), by striking `Administrtor.' in the
 second sentence and inserting `Administrator.'; and
 (3) in section 17B(a) (7 U.S.C. 87f-2(a))--
 (A) by striking `The' and inserting `On December 1 of each year, the';
 (B) by striking `committee on Agriculture' and inserting `Committee on
 Agriculture'; and
 (C) by striking `one year' and all that follows through `such committees'.
SEC. 1008. PACKERS AND STOCKYARDS.
 The Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 (7 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 202(c) (7 U.S.C. 192(c)), by striking `dealer. any' and
 inserting `dealer, any'; and
 (2) in section 406(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 227(b)(2)), by striking the comma after
 `unmanufactured form,'.
SEC. 1009. REDUNDANT LANGUAGE IN WAREHOUSE ACT.
 Section 17(c)(1)(B) of the United States Warehouse Act (7 U.S.C. 259(c)(1)(B))
 is amended by striking `, or to a specified person'.
SEC. 1010. CLARIFICATION OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT
OF 1990.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of Agriculture is
 directed immediately to implement the establishment within the Department of
 Agriculture of the Rural Development Administration established by subtitle
 A of title XXIII of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
 1990 (7 U.S.C. 2006f et seq.) and the amendments made by such subtitle.
SEC. 1011. PERISHABLE AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES.
 The Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act, 1930 (7 U.S.C. 499a et seq.),
 is amended--
 (1) in the first section (7 U.S.C. 499a)--
 (A) by striking out `That when used in this Act--' and inserting the
 following:
`SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS.
 `(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Perishable Agricultural
 Commodities Act, 1930'.
 `(b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this Act:'; and
 (B) by striking the semicolon at the end of paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4),
 (5), (6), and (9) and inserting a period;
 (2) in section 4(a) (7 U.S.C. 499d(a)), by striking `anual' in the material
 before the first proviso and inserting `annual';
 (3) in section 5(c)(2) (7 U.S.C. 499e(c)(2)), by striking `(as' and inserting
 `, as';
 (4) in section 6 (7 U.S.C. 499f)--
 (A) by adding a period at the end of subsection (c); and
 (B) by striking the semicolon at the end of subsection (d) and inserting
 a period;
 (5) in section 7 (7 U.S.C. 499g), by striking the semicolon at the end of
 subsections (a), (b), and (c) and inserting a period;
 (6) in section 8(a) (7 U.S.C. 499h(a))--
 (A) by redesignating paragraphs (a) and (b) as paragraphs (1) and (2),
 respectively; and
 (B) by striking the semicolon at the end of the subsection and inserting
 a period;
 (7) in section 14(a) (7 U.S.C. 499n(a))--
 (A) by striking `(7 U.S.C., Supp. 2, secs. 1 to 17 (a))' and inserting
 `(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.)'; and
 (B) by striking the semicolon at the end of the subsection and inserting
 a period; and
 (8) by striking section 18 (7 U.S.C. 499r).
SEC. 1012. EGG PRODUCTS INSPECTION.
 (a) Findings and Purposes-
 (1) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
 (A) food borne illness is a serious health problem;
 (B) its incidence can be reduced through proper handling of food; and
 (C) eggs are perishable and therefore are particularly susceptible to
 supporting microbial growth if proper temperature controls are not maintained.
 (2) PURPOSES- It is the purpose of this section to prescribe the temperature
 at which eggs are maintained in order to reduce the potential for harmful
 microbial growth to protect the health and welfare of consumers.
 (b) INSPECTION OF EGG PRODUCTS- Section 5 of the Egg Products Inspection Act
 (21 U.S.C. 1034) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) Subject to paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), the Secretary shall make
 such inspections as the Secretary considers appropriate of a facility of
 an egg handler (including a transport vehicle) to determine if shell eggs
 destined for the ultimate consumer--
 `(A) are being held under refrigeration at an ambient temperature of no
 greater than 45 degrees Fahrenheit after packing; and
 `(B) contain labeling that indicates that refrigeration is required.
 `(2) In the case of a shell egg packer packing eggs for the ultimate consumer,
 the Secretary shall make an inspection in accordance with paragraph (1)
 at least once each calendar quarter.
 `(3) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall cause such inspections
 to be made as the Secretary considers appropriate to ensure compliance with
 the requirements of paragraph (1) at food manufacturing establishments,
 institutions, and restaurants, other than plants packing eggs.
 `(4) The Secretary shall not make an inspection as provided in paragraph
 (1) on any egg handler with a flock of not more than 3,000 layers.
 `(5) A representative of the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and
 Human Services shall be afforded access to a place of business referred to
 in this subsection, including a transport vehicle, for purposes of making
 an inspection required under this subsection.'.
 (c) PROHIBITED ACTS- Section 8 of such Act (21 U.S.C. 1037) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as subsections (d) through
 (f), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c) No egg handler shall possess any eggs after the eggs have been packed
 into a container that is destined for the ultimate consumer unless the eggs
 are stored and transported under refrigeration at an ambient temperature of
 no greater than 45 degrees Fahrenheit, as prescribed by rules and regulations
 promulgated by the Secretary.'.
 (d) PENALTIES- Section 12 of such Act (21 U.S.C. 1041) is amended--
 (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking `$1,000' and
 inserting `$5,000';
 (2) by designating the last sentence of subsection (a) as subsection (d)
 and transferring such subsection to the end of the section;
 (3) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (e) and transferring such
 subsection to the end of the section;
 (4) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b); and
 (5) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1)(A) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, any person who
 violates any provision of this Act or any regulation issued under this Act,
 other than a violation for which a criminal penalty has been imposed under
 this Act, may be assessed a civil penalty by the Secretary of not more than
 $5,000 for each such violation. Each violation to which this subparagraph
 applies shall be considered a separate offense.
 `(B) No penalty shall be assessed against any person under this subsection
 unless the person is given notice and opportunity for a hearing on the record
 before the Secretary in accordance with sections 554 and 556 of title 5,
 United States Code.
 `(C) The amount of the civil penalty imposed under this subsection--
 `(i) shall be assessed by the Secretary, by written order, taking into
 account the gravity of the violation, degree of culpability, and history
 of prior offenses; and
 `(ii) may be reviewed only as provided in paragraph (2).
 `(2)(A) The determination and order of the Secretary under this subsection
 shall be final and conclusive unless the person against whom such a violation
 is found under paragraph (1) files an application for judicial review within
 30 days after service of the order in the United States court of appeals
 for the circuit in which the person has its principal place of business or
 in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
 `(B) Judicial review of any such order shall be based on the record on
 which the determination and order are based.
 `(C) If the court determines that additional evidence needs to be taken,
 the court shall order the hearing to be reopened for this purpose in such
 manner and on such terms and conditions as the court considers proper. The
 Secretary may modify the findings of the Secretary as to the facts, or make
 new findings, on the basis of the additional evidence so taken.
 `(3) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a civil penalty after the
 penalty has become a final and unappealable order, or after the appropriate
 court of appeals has entered a final judgment in favor of the Secretary,
 the Secretary shall refer the matter to the Attorney General. The Attorney
 General shall institute a civil action to recover the amount assessed in an
 appropriate district court of the United States. In the collection action,
 the validity and appropriateness of the Secretary's order imposing the
 civil penalty shall not be subject to review.
 `(4) All penalties collected under this subsection shall be paid into the
 Treasury of the United States.
 `(5) The Secretary may compromise, modify, or remit, with or without
 conditions, any civil penalty assessed under this subsection.
 `(6) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an official plant.'.
 (e) REPORTING OF VIOLATION TO UNITED STATES ATTORNEY FOR INSTITUTION OF
 CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS- The last sentence of section 13 of such Act (21
 U.S.C. 1042) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the
 following: `or an action to assess civil penalties'.
 (f) IMPORTS- Section 17(a) of such Act (21 U.S.C. 1046(a)) is amended--
 (1) by designating the first, second, and third sentences as paragraphs (1),
 (2), and (4), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as so designated) the following
 new paragraph:
 `(3) No eggs packed into a container that is destined for the ultimate
 consumer shall be imported into the United States unless the eggs are
 accompanied by a certification that the eggs have at all times after packaging
 been stored and transported under refrigeration at an ambient temperature
 of no greater than 45 degrees Fahrenheit, as required by sections 5(e)
 and 8(c).'.
 (g) RELATION TO OTHER AUTHORITIES- The first sentence of section 23(b) of such
 Act (21 U.S.C. 1052(b)) is amended by striking `and (2)' and inserting the
 following: `(2) with respect to egg handlers specified in paragraphs (1) and
 (2) of section 5(e), no State or local jurisdiction may impose temperature
 requirements pertaining to eggs packaged for the ultimate consumer which
 are in addition to, or different from, Federal requirements, and (3)'.
 (h) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section shall
 become effective 12 months after the Secretary of Agriculture promulgates
 final regulations implementing this section and the amendments.
SEC. 1013. PREVENTION OF INTRODUCTION OF BROWN TREE SNAKES TO HAWAII FROM GUAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Agriculture shall, to the extent practicable,
 take such action as may be necessary to prevent the inadvertent introduction
 of brown tree snakes into other areas of the United States from Guam.
 (b) INTRODUCTION INTO HAWAII- The Secretary shall initiate a program to
 prevent, to the extent practicable, the introduction of the brown tree
 snake into Hawaii from Guam. In carrying out this section, the Secretary
 shall consider the use of sniffer or tracking dogs, snake traps, and other
 preventative processes or devices at aircraft and vessel loading facilities
 on Guam, Hawaii, or intermediate sites serving as transportation points
 that could result in the introduction of brown tree snakes into Hawaii.
 (c) AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall use the authority provided under the
 Federal Plant Pest Act (7 U.S.C. 150aa et seq.) to carry out subsections
 (a) and (b).
 (d) CONTROL OF BROWN TREE SNAKES- The Act of March 2, 1931 (46 Stat. 1468,
 chapter 370; 7 U.S.C. 426) is amended by inserting `brown tree snakes,'
 after `rabbits,'.
 (e) IMPORTATION OF BROWN TREE SNAKES- The first sentence of section 42(a)(1)
 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting `brown tree snakes,'
 after `reptiles,'.
SEC. 1014. GRANT TO PREVENT AND CONTROL POTATO DISEASES.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds available to the Animal and
 Plant Health Inspection Service of the Department of Agriculture for fiscal
 year 1992 shall be made available as a grant in the amount of $530,000 to
 the State of Maine Department of Agriculture, Food, and Rural Resources
 for potato disease detection, control, prevention, eradication and related
 activities, including the payment of compensation to persons for economic
 losses associated with such efforts conducted or to be conducted in the
 State of Maine. Any unobligated balances of funds previously appropriated
 or allocated for potato disease efforts by the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall remain available until expended by the Secretary.
SEC. 1015. COLLECTION OF FEES FOR INSPECTION SERVICES.
 Section 2509(a) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (21 U.S.C. 136a(a)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)--
 (A) by striking `(1) QUARANTINE AND INSPECTION- The Secretary' and inserting
 the following:
 `(1) QUARANTINE AND INSPECTION-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary';
 (B) by indenting 2 ems the left margin of paragraph (1); and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(B) AIRPORT INSPECTION SERVICES- For airport inspection services, the
 Secretary shall collect no more than $69,000,000 in fiscal year 1992 and
 $75,000,000 in fiscal year 1993 from international airline passengers and
 commercial aircraft operators.
 `(C) COMMERCIAL TRUCK AND RAILROAD CAR INSPECTION SERVICES- For commercial
 truck and railroad car inspection services, the Secretary shall collect no
 more than $3,667,000 in fiscal year 1992 and $3,890,000 in fiscal year 1993
 from commercial truck and railroad car operators.
 `(D) COSTS- Fees, including fees from international airline passengers and
 commercial aircraft operators, may only be collected to the extent that the
 Secretary reasonably estimates that the amount of the fees are commensurate
 with the costs of agricultural quarantine and inspection services with
 respect to the class of persons or entities paying the fees. The costs of
 such services with respect to passengers as a class includes the costs of
 related inspections of the aircraft.';
 (2) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following
 new clause:
 `(ii) REIMBURSEMENT- The Secretary of the Treasury shall use the Account
 to provide reimbursements to any appropriation accounts that incur the
 costs associated with the administration of this subsection and all other
 activities carried out by the Secretary at ports in the customs territory
 of the United States and at preclearance or preinspection sites outside the
 customs territory of the United States in connection with the enforcement
 of the animal quarantine laws. Any such reimbursement shall be subject to
 appropriations under clause (v).'; and
 (3) in paragraph (4), by striking `The' and inserting `Subject to the limits
 set forth in paragraph (1), the'.
SEC. 1016. EXEMPTION AND STUDY OF CERTAIN FOOD PRODUCTS.
 (a) AMENDMENTS TO FEDERAL MEAT INSPECTION ACT- Section 23 of the Federal
 Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 623) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c)(1) Under such terms and conditions as the Secretary shall prescribe
 through rules and regulations issued under section 24 that may be necessary
 to ensure food safety and protect public health such as special handling
 procedures, the Secretary shall exempt pizzas containing a meat food product
 from the inspection requirements of this Act if--
 `(A) the meat food product components of the pizzas have been prepared,
 inspected, and passed in a cured or cooked form as ready-to-eat in compliance
 with the requirements of this Act; and
 `(B) the pizzas are to be served in public or private nonprofit institutions.
 `(2) The Secretary may withdraw or modify any exemption under this subsection
 whenever the Secretary determines such action is necessary to ensure food
 safety and to protect public health.  The Secretary may reinstate or further
 modify any exemption withdrawn or modified under this subsection.'.
 (b) AMENDMENTS TO POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION ACT- Section 15 of the Poultry
 Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 464) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) and (f),
 respectively;
 (2) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated), by striking `(c)' and inserting
 `(d)'; and
 (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) Under such terms and conditions as the Secretary shall prescribe
 through rules and regulations issued under this section that may be necessary
 to ensure food safety and protect public health such as special handling
 procedures, the Secretary shall exempt pizzas containing a poultry product
 from the inspection requirements of this Act if--
 `(A) the poultry product components of the pizzas have been prepared,
 inspected, and passed in a cured or cooked form as ready-to-eat in compliance
 with the requirements of this Act; and
 `(B) the pizzas are to be served in public or private nonprofit institutions.
 `(2) The Secretary may withdraw or modify any exemption under this subsection
 whenever the Secretary determines such action is necessary to ensure food
 safety and to protect public health. The Secretary may reinstate or further
 modify any exemption withdrawn or modified under this subsection.'.
 (c) REGULATIONS- No later than August 1, 1992, the Secretary of Agriculture
 shall issue final rules, through prior notice and comment rulemaking
 procedures, to implement the exemption authorized by section 23(c) of the
 Federal Meat Inspection Act (as added by subsection (a)) and the exemption
 authorized by section 15(d) of the Poultry Products Inspection Act (as added
 by subsection (b)).  Prior to the issuance of the final rules, the Secretary
 shall hold at least one public hearing examining the public health and food
 safety issues raised by the granting of each of the exemptions.
 (d) STUDIES-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the National
 Academy of Sciences, shall conduct--
 (A) a study to develop criteria for, and evaluate, present and future
 inspection exemptions for meat food products and poultry products under
 the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) and the Poultry
 Products Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.), respectively, which shall
 examine the potential effect on consumers, on the affected industries, on
 public health and food safety, on the role of the Department of Agriculture,
 and the scientific basis for the exemptions; and
 (B) a study of the appropriateness of granting an exemption from the
 requirements of the Federal Meat Inspection Act or the Poultry Products
 Inspection Act, as appropriate, for wholesale meat outlets selling to
 hotels, restaurants, or other similar institutional users provided that the
 processing of meat by the outlets is limited to cutting, slicing, grinding,
 or repackaging into smaller quantities.
 (2) RESULTS- On completion of each study required under paragraph (1),
 the Secretary shall provide the results of the study to the Committee on
 Agriculture of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture,
 Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.
SEC. 1017. FEES FOR LABORATORY ACCREDITATION.
 Section 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
 (7 U.S.C. 138f) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 1327. FEES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- At the time that an application for accreditation is received
 by the Secretary and annually thereafter, a laboratory seeking accreditation
 by the Secretary under the authority of this subtitle, the Federal Meat
 Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), or the Poultry Products Inspection
 Act (21 U.S.C. 451 et seq.) shall pay to the Secretary a nonrefundable
 accreditation fee. All fees collected by the Secretary shall be credited to
 the account from which the expenses of the laboratory accreditation program
 are paid and, subject to subsection (e), shall be available immediately
 and remain available until expended to pay the expenses of the laboratory
 accreditation program.
 `(b) AMOUNT OF FEE- The fee required under this section shall be established
 by the Secretary in an amount that will offset the cost of the laboratory
 accreditation programs administered by the Secretary under the statutory
 authorities set forth in subsection (a).
 `(c) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES- Each laboratory that is accredited under
 a statutory authority set forth in subsection (a) or that has applied
 for accreditation under such authority shall reimburse the Secretary for
 reasonable travel and other expenses necessary to perform onsite inspections
 of the laboratory.
 `(d) ADJUSTMENT OF FEES- The Secretary may, on an annual basis, adjust
 the fees imposed under this section as necessary to support the full costs
 of the laboratory accreditation programs carried out under the statutory
 authorities set forth in subsection (a).
 `(e) APPROPRIATIONS PREREQUISITE- No fees collected under this section may
 be used to offset the cost of laboratory accreditation without appropriations
 made under subsection (f).
 `(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 each fiscal year such sums as may be necessary for laboratory accreditation
 services under this section.'.
SEC. 1018. STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) COOPERATIVE FORESTRY ASSISTANCE- The Cooperative Forestry Assistance
 Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 5(d) (16 U.S.C. 2103a(d)), by striking `State Foresters'
 each place it appears and inserting `State foresters';
 (2) in section 7 (16 U.S.C. 2103c)--
 (A) in subsection (d)(2), by striking `Not later than 1 year after the date of
 enactment of this section,' and inserting `Not later than November 28, 1991,';
 (B) in subsection (e), by striking `Within 1 year from the date of enactment
 of this section and in consultation with State Forest Stewardship Advisory
 Committees established under section 15(b)' and inserting `Not later
 than November 28, 1991, and in consultation with State Forest Stewardship
 Coordinating Committees established under section 19(b)'; and
 (C) in subsection (f), by striking `subsection (d)' and inserting `subsection
 (e)';
 (3) in section 9 (16 U.S.C. 2105)--
 (A) in subsection (g)(1)(C), by striking `subsection (e)' and inserting
 `subsection (f)';
 (B) in subsection (g)(3)(E), by striking `subsection (e)' and inserting
 `subsection (f)';
 (C) in subsection (h)(1), by striking `subsection (f)' and inserting
 `subsection (g)'; and
 (D) in subsection (h)(2), by striking `subsection (f)(3)' and inserting
 `subsection (g)(3)'; and
 (4) in section 10(g)(2) (16 U.S.C. 2106(g)(2)), by striking `fire fighting
 organization' and inserting `firefighting organization'.
 (b) COMMISSION ON STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTS- Section 1245(g)(4) of the Food,
 Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104
 Stat. 3549; 16 U.S.C. 1601 note) is amended by striking `the Director of
 the Office Technology Assessment may furnish'.
 (c) FOREST PRODUCTS INSTITUTE- Section 1247(a) of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3551;
 16 U.S.C. 2112 note) is amended by striking `in this section' the second
 place it appears.
 (d) RENEWABLE RESOURCES EXTENSION- Section 3(a) of the Renewable Resources
 Extension Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 1672(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of the first paragraph (9) (as added
 by section 1219(b)(1) of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade
 Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3539) and inserting `; and'; and
 (3) by redesignating the second paragraph (9) (as added by section 1251(b)(3)
 of such Act (104 Stat. 3552) as paragraph (10).
 (e) AMERICA THE BEAUTIFUL- Section 1264(n)(1) of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3556;
 16 U.S.C. 2101 note) is amended by striking `this Act' and inserting
 `this subtitle'.
 (f) REFORESTATION ASSISTANCE- Section 1271(c)(3)(C) of the Food, Agriculture,
 Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624; 104 Stat. 3558;
 16 U.S.C. 2106a) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(16 U.S.C. 2101 et seq.)' after `1978'; and
 (2) by striking `(16 U.S.C. 590h, 590l, or 590p)' and inserting `(16
 U.S.C. 590p(b))'.
SEC. 1019. REPEAL OF PUBLIC LAW 76-543.
 Public Law 76-543 (54 Stat. 231) is hereby repealed.
TITLE XI--EFFECTIVE DATES
SEC. 1101. EFFECTIVE DATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, this Act and the
 amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of
 this Act.
 (b) INCLUSION IN FOOD, AGRICULTURE, CONSERVATION, AND TRADE ACT OF 1990- The
 amendments made by the following provisions of this Act shall take effect
 as if included in the provision of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation,
 and Trade Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-624) to which the amendment relates:
 (1) Section 201 (other than section 201(h)).
 (2) Section 307.
 (3) Subsections (a) through (c), (e), (h), and (i) of section 501.
 (4) Subsections (a), (b), (f) through (i), and (l) of section 502.
 (5) Section 602(c).
 (6) Section 701 (except as provided in subsection (c) of this section).
 (7) Section 702.
 (8) Section 703(c).
 (c) MISCELLANEOUS AMENDMENTS TO CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT-
 The amendments made by section 701(h) of this Act to any provision specified
 therein shall take effect as if such amendments had been included in the
 Act that added the provision so specified at the time such Act became law.
 (d) FOOD AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, title IX
 of this Act, and the amendments made by title IX of this Act, shall take
 effect and be implemented no later than February 1, 1992.
 (2) PASS ACCOUNTS EXCLUSION-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The amendment made by section 903(3) of this Act shall take
 effect on the earlier of--
 (i) the date of enactment of this Act;
 (ii) October 1, 1990, for food stamp households for which the State agency
 knew, or had notice, that a member of the household had a plan for achieving
 self-support as provided under section 1612(b)(4)(B)(iv) of the Social
 Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1382a(b)(4)(B)(iv)); or
 (iii) beginning on the date that a fair hearing was requested under the
 Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) contesting the denial of an
 exclusion for food stamp purposes for amounts necessary for the fulfillment
 of such a plan for achieving self-support.
 (B) LIMITATION ON APPLICATION OF SECTION- Notwithstanding section 11(b) of
 the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (as redesignated by section 941(6) of this Act),
 no State agency shall be required to search its files for cases to which
 the amendment made by section 903(3) of this Act applies, except where the
 excludability of amounts described in section 5(d)(16) of the Food Stamp
 Act of 1977 (as added by section 903(3) of this Act) was raised with the
 State agency prior to the date of enactment of the Act.
 (3) PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING PROGRAMS- The amendments
 made by section 908 of this Act shall take effect on September 30, 1991.
 (4) RECOVERY OF CLAIMS CAUSED BY NONFRAUDULENT HOUSEHOLD ERRORS- The amendment
 made by section 911 of this Act shall take effect on the date of enactment
 of this Act.
 (5) DEFINITION OF RETAIL FOOD STORE- The amendment made by section 913 of
 this Act shall take effect on October 1, 1990, and shall not apply with
 respect to any period occurring before such date.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.