 
--H.R.2926--
H.R.2926
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Act of May 17, 1954, relating to the Jefferson National Expansion
Memorial to authorize increased funding for the East Saint Louis portion of
the Memorial, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EAST SAINT LOUIS PORTION OF JEFFERSON NATIONAL EXPANSION MEMORIAL.
 The Act of May 17, 1954, entitled `An Act to provide for the construction of
 the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial at the site of old Saint Louis,
 Missouri, in general accordance with the plan approved by the United
 States Territorial Expansion Memorial Commission, and for other purposes'
 (68 Stat. 98; 16 U.S.C. 450jj and following) is amended as follows:
 (1) The first sentence of section 4(a) is amended--
 (A) by striking out `The Secretary of the Interior is further authorized
 to designate' and inserting in lieu thereof `There is hereby designated';
 (B) by striking out `not more than' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `approximately'; and
 (C) by striking out `MWR-366/80,004, and dated February 9, 1984,' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `366-80013, dated January 1992,'.
 (2) Section 9 is repealed.
 (3) Section 11 is amended by striking out subsection (d) and by amending
 subsection (b), as added by section 201(b) of Public Law 98-398, to read
 as follows:
 `(b)(1) For the purposes of the East St. Louis portion of the memorial,
 there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for land acquisition
 and, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3), such sums as
 may be necessary for development: Provided, That such authorization shall
 not include any sums for the acquisition, removal, or relocation of the
 grain elevator and business located within the East St. Louis unit of the
 Memorial. Such development shall be consistent with the level of development
 described in phase one of the draft Development and Management Plan and
 Environmental Assessment, East St. Louis Addition to Jefferson National
 Expansion Memorial--Illinois/Missouri, dated August 1987.
 `(2) Federal funds expended under paragraph (1) for development may not
 exceed 75 percent of the actual cost of such development. The remaining share
 of such actual costs shall be provided from non-Federal funds, services,
 or materials, or a combination thereof, fairly valued as determined by
 the Secretary. Any non-Federal expenditures for the acquisition, removal,
 or relocation of the grain elevator and business shall be included as part
 of the non-Federal cost share: Provided, That credit shall not be given
 for any such expenditures which exceed the cost of acquisition, removal,
 or relocation of the grain elevator and business located within the East
 St. Louis unit of the Memorial if such action had been accomplished by
 the Federal Government as determined by the Secretary under existing law:
 Provided further, That only those non-Federal funds expended at least
 sixty days after the transmission of the report referred to in paragraph
 (3) for the removal of such grain elevator shall be credited towards the
 non-Federal cost share. For the purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary
 may accept and utilize for such purposes any non-Federal funds, services,
 and materials so contributed.
 `(3) Within one year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the
 Secretary, in direct consultation with the city of East St. Louis, Gateway
 Arch Park Expansion, and the Southwestern Illinois Development Authority,
 shall develop and transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 of the United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs
 of the United States House of Representatives a study of alternatives to,
 and costs associated with, the removal of the grain elevator located within
 the East St. Louis unit of the Memorial. The study shall contain, but need
 not be limited to, at least one alternative which would incorporate and
 retain the existing grain elevator into the draft development and management
 plan and environmental assessment referred to in paragraph (1).'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.