 
--H.R.3881--
H.R.3881
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To expand the boundaries of Stones River National Battlefield, Tennessee,
and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. STONES RIVER NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD BOUNDARY CHANGE.
 The Act entitled `An Act to amend the boundaries of Stones River National
 Battlefield, Tennessee, and for other purposes', approved December 23, 1987
 (101 Stat. 1433), is amended as follows:
 (1) In the first sentence of section 1(a) strike `numbered 327/80,001, and
 dated March 1987' and insert `numbered 327/80,004B, and dated November 1991'.
 (2) In section 1(b), insert `(1)' after `LANDS- ', and add at the end
 thereof the following:
 `(2)(A) Before acquiring any lands under this Act where the surface of such
 lands has been substantially disturbed or which are believed by the Secretary
 to contain hazardous substances, the Secretary shall prepare a report on the
 potential hazardous substances associated with such lands and the estimated
 cost of restoring such lands, together with a plan of the remedial measures
 necessary to allow acquisition of such lands to proceed in a timely manner,
 consistent with the requirements of subparagraph (B). The Secretary shall
 submit such report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
 United States Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of
 the United States House of Representatives.
 `(B) The Secretary shall not acquire any lands under this Act if the
 Secretary determines that such lands, or any portion thereof, have become
 contaminated with hazardous substances (as defined in the Comprehensive
 Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601)).
 `(3)(A) Except for property which the Secretary determines to be necessary
 for the purposes of administration, development, access, or public use,
 an owner of improved property which is used solely for noncommercial
 residential purposes on the date of its acquisition by the Secretary may
 retain, as a condition of such acquisition, a right of use and occupancy of
 the property for such residential purposes. The right retained may be for
 a definite term which shall not exceed 25 years or, in lieu thereof, for a
 term ending at the death of the owner or the death of the spouse, whichever
 is later. The owner shall elect the term to be retained. The Secretary shall
 pay the owner the fair market value of the property on the date of such
 acquisition, less the fair market value of the term retained by the owner.
 `(B) Any right of use and occupancy retained pursuant to this section may,
 during its existence, be conveyed or transferred, but all rights of use and
 occupancy shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary
 deems appropriate to assure the use of the property in accordance with
 the purposes of this Act. Upon his determination that the property, or any
 portion thereof, has ceased to be so used in accordance with such terms and
 conditions, the Secretary may terminate the right of use and occupancy by
 tendering to the holder of such right an amount equal to the fair market
 value, as of the date of the tender, of that portion of the right which
 remains unexpired on the date of termination.
 `(C) This paragraph applies only to owners who have reached the age of
 majority.
 `(D) As used in this paragraph, the term `improved property' means a detached,
 year-round noncommercial residential dwelling, the construction of which
 was begun before the date of enactment of this paragraph, together with
 so much of the land on which the dwelling is situated, such land being in
 the same ownership as the dwelling, as the Secretary shall designate to be
 reasonably necessary for the enjoyment of the dwelling for the sole purpose
 of noncommercial residential use, together with any structures accessory
 to the dwelling which are situated on the land so designated.'.
 (3) Section 2 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 2. AGREEMENT.
 `The Secretary is authorized to enter into an agreement with the city of
 Murfreesboro, Tennessee, containing each of the following provisions--
 `(1) If the city agrees to acquire sufficient interest in land to construct
 a trail linking the battlefield with Fortress Rosecrans, to construct such
 trail, and to operate and maintain the trail in accordance with standards
 approved by the Secretary, the Secretary shall (A) transfer to the city the
 funds available to the Secretary for the acquisition of such lands and for
 the construction of the trail, and (B) provide technical assistance to the
 city and to Rutherford County for the purpose of development and planning
 of the trail.
 `(2) The Secretary shall agree to accept the transfer by donation from
 the city of the remnants of Fortress Rosecrans at Old Fort Park, and
 following such transfer, to preserve and interpret the fortress as part of
 the battlefield.
 `(3) In administering the Fortress Rosecrans, the Secretary is authorized
 to enter a cooperative agreement with the city of Murfreesboro, Tennessee,
 for the rendering, on a nonreimbursable basis, of rescue, firefighting,
 and law enforcement services and cooperative assistance by nearby law
 enforcement and fire preventive agencies.'.
 (4) Redesignate section 3 as section 4, and insert the following new section
 after section 2:
`SEC. 3. PLANNING.
 `(a) PREPARATION OF PLAN FOR REDOUBT BRANNAN- The Secretary shall,
 on or before February 1, 1992, prepare a plan for the preservation and
 interpretation of Redoubt Brannan.
 `(b) UPDATE OF GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- The Secretary shall, on or before
 March 31, 1993, update the General Management Plan for the Stones River
 National Battlefield.
 `(c) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary is authorized to provide technical
 assistance to the city and to Rutherford County in the development of zoning
 ordinances and other land use controls that would help preserve historically
 significant areas adjacent to the battlefield.
 `(d) MINOR BOUNDARY REVISIONS- If the planning activities conducted under
 subsections (a) and (b) of this section show a need for minor revisions of
 the boundaries indicated on the map referred to in section 1 of this Act,
 the Secretary may, following timely notice in writing to the Committee on
 Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of Representatives
 and to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States
 Senate of his intention to do so and providing an opportunity for public
 comment, make such minor revisions by publication of a revised boundary
 map or other description in the Federal Register.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.