 
--H.R.5809--
H.R.5809
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to construct and operate an
interpretive
center for the Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge in Clark County, Washington.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. INTERPRETIVE CENTER FOR THE RIDGEFIELD NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
  (1) The Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge (in this Act referred to as the
  `Refuge'), located on the Columbia River in southwest Washington, provides
  unique opportunities for observing and interpreting the biological richness
  of the lower Columbia River wetlands.
  (2) The Refuge is also rich in the cultural history of the Pacific Northwest,
  including being the site of a large Native American settlement which was
  visited by the 1804 Lewis and Clark Expedition and other early explorers.
  (3) The Refuge is located in close proximity to the Portland/Vancouver
  metropolitan area and to the Interstate 5 freeway, which carries millions
  of visitors past the Refuge to Mount St. Helens, Mount Hood, the Columbia
  River Gorge, wilderness areas, and other natural attractions.
  (4) The Refuge is ideally suited to be a regional center for interpretation,
  research, and education related to wetland ecology, wildlife, the
  environmental sciences, and Northwest cultural history.
  (5) There are unique opportunities for the Federal Government to engage
  in cost-sharing with local, State, and private partners to construct,
  operate, and maintain a regional interpretive center at the Refuge.
  (b) AUTHORITY TO CONSTRUCT AND OPERATE INTERPRETIVE CENTER-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior may, subject to the
  availability of appropriations, construct and operate an interpretive center
  at the Ridgefield National Wildlife Refuge in Clark County, Washington,
  for the following purposes:
  (A) Providing public opportunities, facilities, and resources to study
  natural history, Native American culture, and the history of Northwest
  settlers in the region of the Refuge.
  (B) Offering a variety of environmental educational programs and interpretive
  exhibits.
  (C) Fostering an awareness and understanding of the interactions among
  wildlife, wetland ecosystems, and human activities.
  (D) Providing office space and facilities for Refuge administration,
  research, education, and related activities.
  (2) DESIGN- The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that the design,
  size, and location of any facilities for an interpretive center constructed
  under this section are consistent with the cultural and natural history
  of the area with which the interpretive center will be concerned.
  (c) COST SHARING- The Secretary of the Interior may accept contributions of
  funds from non-Federal sources to pay the costs of constructing, operating,
  and maintaining an interpretive center under this section, and shall take
  appropriate steps to seek to obtain such contributions.
  (d) PUBLIC PROCESS- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
  shall engage in a public process to determine--
  (1) the design of an interpretive center to be constructed under this
  section;
  (2) opportunities for obtaining contributions of funds for the interpretive
  center;
  (3) the costs of constructing, operating, and maintaining, the interpretive
  center and associated facilities; and
  (4) the functions of the interpretive center, with an emphasis on educational
  functions.
  (e) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit a report to the
  Congress on progress made in designing and constructing an interpretive
  center under this section, on including steps taken under subsection (c)
  to obtain contributions and any such contributions that have been pledged
  to or received by the United States.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL MEMBERS OF TASK FORCE.
  Section 4 of the Klamath River Basin Fishery Resources Restoration Act
  (16 U.S.C. 460ss-3) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(j) At such time as the program is expanded to include portions of the
  Klamath River upstream from the Iron Gate dam, membership on the Task
  Force shall be increased to include the following--
  `(1) One individual who shall be appointed by the Commissioners of Klamath
  County, Oregon.
  `(2) A representative of the Klamath Tribe, who shall be appointed by the
  governing body of the Tribe.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.