 
--H.R.5572--
 H.R.5572
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To designate May of each year as `Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month'.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) on May 7, 1843, the first Japanese immigrants came to the United States;
  (2) on May 10, 1869, Golden Spike Day, the first transcontinental railroad
  in the United States was completed with significant contributions from
  Chinese pioneers;
  (3) in 1979, at Congress' direction, the President proclaimed the week
  beginning on May 4, 1979, as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Week, providing
  an opportunity for the people of the United States to recognize the history,
  concerns, contributions, and achievements of Asian and Pacific Americans;
  (4) in 1990, 1991 and 1992, Congress designated and the President proclaimed
  the month of May as Asian/Pacific American Heritage Month;
  (5) nearly 8,000,000 people in the United States can trace their roots to
  Asia and the islands of the Pacific; and
  (6) Asian and Pacific Americans have contributed significantly to the
  development of the arts, sciences, government, military, commerce, and
  education in the United States.
SEC. 2. ANNUAL COMMEMORATION.
  (a) DESIGNATION- May of each year is designated as `Asian/Pacific American
  Heritage Month'.
  (b) FEDERAL PROCLAMATION- The President is authorized and requested to
  issue annually a proclamation calling on the people of the United States to
  observe the month designated in subsection (a) with appropriate programs,
  ceremonies and activities.
  (c) STATE PROCLAMATIONS- The chief executive officer of each State is
  requested to issue annually a proclamation calling on the people of the
  State to observe the month designated in subsection (a) with appropriate
  programs, ceremonies and activities.
  (d) DEFINITION- For purposes of subsection (c), the term `State' means
  any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands of
  the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa,
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and Palau.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.