 
--H.R.4449--
H.R.4449
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize jurisdictions receiving funds for fiscal year 1992 under the
HOME Investment Partnerships Act that are allocated for new construction to
use the funds, at the discretion of the jurisdiction, for other eligible
activities under such Act and to amend the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless
Assistance Amendments Act of 1988 to authorize local governments that have
financed housing projects that have been provided a section 8 financial
adjustment factor to use recaptured amounts available from refinancing of
the projects for housing activities.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AVAILABILITY OF NEW CONSTRUCTION FUNDS UNDER
        HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS ACT.
 Section 217(b)(1)(A) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing
 Act (42 U.S.C. 12747(b)(1)(A)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new clause:
 `(iii) Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii), any jurisdiction receiving
 amounts made available under such clause may, at the discretion of the
 jurisdiction, use such amounts for other eligible uses in accordance with
 section 212 if the jurisdiction determines that such use will better meet the
 housing needs within the jurisdiction. This clause shall be effective only
 with respect to funds provided under the Departments of Veterans Affairs and
 Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act,
 1992 (Public Law 102-139; 105 Stat. 744), which suspends the requirement of
 contributions by participating jurisdictions, and shall become ineffective
 if such requirement is reimposed.'.
SEC. 2. USE OF FUNDS RECAPTURED FROM REFINANCING LOCAL FINANCE PROJECTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1012(a) of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `or any local government or local housing agency financed
 project,' after `State financed project'; and
 (2) by inserting `or the local government or local housing agency initiating
 the refinancing, as applicable,' after `located'.
 (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to
 any refinancing of a local government or local housing agency financed
 project approved by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for
 which settlement occurred after January 1, 1992.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
 Amendments Act of 1988 is amended--
 (1) by striking the section heading for section 1012 (42 U.S.C. 1437f note),
 and inserting the following new section heading:
`SEC. 1012. USE OF FUNDS RECAPTURED FROM REFINANCING STATE AND LOCAL FINANCE
PROJECTS.';
and
 (2) in the table of contents in section 1(b), by striking the item relating
 to section 1012 and inserting the following new item:
`Sec. 1012. Use of funds recaptured from refinancing State and local finance
       projects.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.