 
--H.R.4059--
H.R.4059
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954
to authorize additional functions within the Enterprise for the Americas
Initiative, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Enterprise for the Americas Initiative Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. GOOD NEIGHBOR ENVIRONMENTAL ACT OF 1992.
  Title VI of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954
  (7 U.S.C. 1738 and following) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new sections:
`SEC. 616. SALE OF QUALIFIED DEBT TO ELIGIBLE COUNTRIES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) AUTHORIZATION- The President may sell to an eligible country up to 40
  percent of such country's qualified debt, only if an amount of the local
  currency of such country (other than the price paid for the debt) equal to--
  `(A) not less than 40 percent of the price paid for such debt by such
  eligible country, or
  `(B) the difference between the price paid for such debt and the face
  value of such debt;
whichever is less, is used by such country through an Environmental Fund
for eligible activities described in section 612.
  `(2) ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS- For purposes of this section, the term
  `Environmental Fund' means an Environmental Fund established under section
  608. In the case of Mexico, such fund may be designated as the Good Neighbor
  Environmental Fund for the Border.
  `(3) ESTABLISHMENT AND OPERATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL FUNDS- The President should
  advise eligible countries on the procedures required to establish and operate
  the Environmental Funds required to be established under paragraph (1).
  `(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The President shall establish the terms and
  conditions, including the amount to be paid by the eligible country,
  under which such country's qualified debt may be sold under this section.
  `(c) APPROPRIATIONS REQUIREMENT- The authorities provided by this section
  may be exercised only in such amounts and to such extent as is provided
  in advance in appropriations Acts.
  `(d) CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS INAPPLICABLE- A sale of debt under this section
  shall not be considered assistance for purposes of any provision of law
  limiting assistance to a country.
  `(e) IMPLEMENTATION BY THE FACILITY- A sale of debt authorized under this
  section shall be accomplished at the direction of the Facility. The Facility
  shall direct the Commodity Credit Corporation to carry out such sale. The
  Commodity Credit Corporation shall make an adjustment in its accounts to
  reflect the sale.
  `(f) DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS- The proceeds from a sale of qualified debt under
  this section shall be deposited in the  account or accounts established
  by the Commodity Credit Corporation for the repayment of such debt by the
  eligible country.
  `(g) DEBTOR CONSULTATION- Before any sale of qualified debt may occur under
  this section, the President should consult with the eligible country's
  government concerning such sale. The topics addressed in the consultation
  shall include the amount of qualified debt involved in the transaction
  and the uses to which funds made available as a result of the sale shall
  be applied.
`SEC. 617. SALE, REDUCTION, OR CANCELLATION OF QUALIFIED DEBT TO FACILITATE
CERTAIN DEBT SWAPS.
  `(a) AUTHORITY TO SELL, REDUCE, OR CANCEL QUALIFIED DEBT- For the purpose
  of facilitating eligible debt swaps, the President, in accordance with
  this section--
  `(1) may sell to an eligible purchaser (as determined pursuant to subsection
  (c)(1)) any qualified debt of an eligible country; or
  `(2) may reduce or cancel eligible debt of an eligible country upon receipt
  of payment from an eligible payor (as determined under subsection (c)(2)).
  `(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- The President shall establish the terms and
  conditions under which qualified debt may be sold, reduced, or canceled
  pursuant to this section.
  `(c) ELIGIBLE PURCHASERS AND ELIGIBLE PAYORS-
  `(1) SALES OF DEBT- Qualified debt may be sold pursuant to subsection (a)(1)
  only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the President for
  using the debt for the purpose of engaging in eligible debt swaps.
  `(2) REDUCTION OR CANCELLATION OF DEBT- Qualified debt may be reduced or
  cancelled pursuant to subsection (a)(2) only if the payor presents plans
  satisfactory to the President for using such reduction or cancellation
  for the purpose of facilitating eligible debt swaps.
  `(d) DEBTOR CONSULTATION AND RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL-
  `(1) CONSULTATION- Before selling, reducing, or canceling any qualified debt
  of an eligible country pursuant to this section, the President should consult
  with that country concerning, among other things, the amount of debt to be
  sold, reduced, or canceled and the uses of such debt for eligible debt swaps.
  `(2) RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL- The qualified debt of an eligible country
  may be sold, reduced, or cancelled pursuant to this section only if that
  country has been offered the opportunity to purchase that debt pursuant
  to section 616 and has not accepted that offer.
  `(e) LIMITATION- In the aggregate, not more than 40 percent of the qualified
  debt of an eligible country may be sold, reduced, or cancelled under this
  section or sold under section 616.
  `(f) ADMINISTRATION- The Facility shall notify the Commodity Credit
  Corporation of purchasers and payors the President has determined to be
  eligible under subsection (c), and shall direct the corporation to carry
  out the sale, reduction, or cancellation of a qualified debt pursuant to
  this section. The Commodity Credit Corporation shall make an adjustment
  in its accounts to reflect such sale, reduction, or cancellation.
  `(g) APPROPRIATIONS REQUIREMENT- The authorities provided by this section
  may be exercised only in such amounts and to such extent as is provided
  in advance in appropriations Acts.
  `(h) DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS- The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or
  cancellation of qualified debt pursuant to this section shall be deposited
  in the United States Government account or accounts established for the
  repayment of such debt.
  `(i) ELIGIBLE DEBT SWAPS- As used in this section, the term `eligible debt
  swap' means a debt-for-development swap or debt-for-nature swap.
`SEC. 618. NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.
  `(a) NOTICE OF NEGOTIATIONS- The Secretary of State and the Secretary of
  the Treasury shall, in every feasible instance, notify the designated
  congressional committees not less than 15 days prior to any formal
  negotiation for debt relief under this title.
  `(b) TRANSMITTAL OF TEXT OF AGREEMENTS- The Secretary of State shall
  transmit to the designated congressional committees a copy of the text of
  any agreement with any foreign government which would result in any debt
  relief under this title no less than 30 days prior to its entry into force,
  together with a detailed justification of the interest of the United States
  in the proposed debt relief.
  `(c) ANNUAL REPORT- The Secretary of State or the Secretary of the Treasury,
  as appropriate, shall submit to the designated congressional committees
  not later than February 1 of each year a consolidated statement of the
  budgetary implications of all debt relief agreements entered into force
  under this title during the preceding fiscal year.
  `(d) DESIGNATED CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES- As used in this section, the term
  `designated congressional committees' means the Committee on Agriculture
  and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and
  the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate.
`SEC. 619. DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED DEBT.
  `As used in sections 616, 617, and 618, the term `qualified debt' means
  any obligation, or portion of such obligation, of an eligible country to
  pay for purchases of United States agricultural commodities guaranteed by
  the Commodity Credit Corporation under export credit guarantee programs
  authorized pursuant to section 5(f) of the Commodity Credit Corporation
  Charter Act or section 4(b) of the Food for Peace Act of 1966--
  `(1) in which the Commodity Credit Corporation obtained a legal right
  or interest, as a result of assignment or subrogation, not later than
  September 1, 1992; and
  `(2) the payment of which obligation has been, not later than September 1,
  1992, rescheduled in accordance with principles set forth in an Agreed
  Minute of the Paris Club.
Such term includes the obligation to pay any interest which was due or accrued
not later than September 1, 1992, and unpaid as of the date of a debt sale
pursuant to section 616 or a debt sale, reduction, or cancellation pursuant
to section 617 (as the case may be).'.
SEC. 3. ANNUAL REPORTS TO THE CONGRESS.
  Section 614(a) of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of
  1954 (7 U.S.C. 1738mm(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `This report shall include--
  `(1) a description of the activities undertaken by the Facility during
  the previous fiscal year;
  `(2)  a description of any Enviromental Framework Agreement entered into
  under this title;
  `(3) a report on what Environmental Funds have been established under this
  title and on the operations of such Funds; and
  `(4) a description of any grants that have been extended by administering
  bodies pursuant to an Enviromental Framework Agreement under this title.'.
SEC. 4. CENTER FOR NORTH AMERICAN STUDIES.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a center,
  to be known as the Center For North American Studies, whose primary purpose
  shall be to promote better agricultural relationships among Canada, Mexico,
  and the United States through cooperative study, training, and research.
  (b) LOCATION- The Institute shall be located at an institution of higher
  education or at a consortium of such institutions.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- To carry out this section, there are
  authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1994 and such
  sums as may necessary for each of fiscal years 1995 and 1996.
SEC. 5. STUDY OF THE EFFECT  OF FREE TRADE WITH LATIN AMERICAN AND CARIBBEAN
COUNTRIES ON THE UNITED STATES ECONOMY.
  The President shall transmit to the Congress, not later than 8 months
  after the date of the enactment of this Act, a study describing--
  (1) in summary fashion, the likely effect on major United States industries
  and other sectors, including agriculture, that could be most affected by
  a hemispherical free trade zone with Latin American and Caribbean countries;
  (2) the regions in the United States that would be most affected by a
  hemispherical free trade zone with Latin American and Caribbean countries
  and, in summary fashion, the nature of these effects;
  (3) the extent to which horticultural exports from Latin American and
  Caribbean countries complement or compete with United States production;
  (4) a country-by-country overview of recent economic developments in Latin
  American and Caribbean countries significantly influencing United States
  relations with such countries, including present trade and investment
  patterns in these regions;
  (5) the likely effect of a hemispherical free trade zone with Latin American
  and Caribbean countries on the United States economy and its multilateral
  interrelationship with other countries in the region, including Canada
  and Mexico;
  (6) the extent to which manufactured products exported from Latin American
  and Caribbean countries complement or compete with United States production;
  and
  (7) the likely effects of a hemispherical free trade zone with Latin
  American and Caribbean countries on existing environmental, agricultural,
  labor, and consumer protection laws and practices within the United States
  and within the other countries included in the zone.
SEC. 6. THE GOOD NEIGHBOR ENVIRONMENTAL BOARD.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The President shall establish an advisory board to
  be known as the Good Neighbor Environmental Board (hereinafter in this
  section referred to as the `Board').
  (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the Board shall be to advise the President
  and the Congress on the need for implementation of environmental and
  infrastructure projects (including projects that affect agriculture, rural
  development, and human nutrition) within the States of the United States
  contiguous to Mexico in order to improve the quality of life of persons
  residing on the United States side of the border.
  (c) MEMBERSHIP- The Board shall be composed of--
  (1) representatives from the United States Government, including a
  representative from the Department of Agriculture and representatives from
  other appropriate agencies;
  (2) representatives from the governments of the States of Arizona,
  California, New Mexico, and Texas; and
  (3) representatives from private organizations, including  community
  development, academic, health, environmental, and other nongovernmental
  entities with experience and expertise on environmental and infrastructure
  problems along the southwest border.
  (d) ANNUAL REPORTS TO THE PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Board shall submit to the President and the Congress
  of the United States an annual report on--
  (A) the environmental and infrastructure projects referred to in subsection
  (a) that have been implemented, and
  (B) the need for the implementation of additional environmental and
  infrastructure projects.
  (2) TRANSMISSION OF COPIES TO BOARD MEMBERS- The Board shall--
  (A) transmit to each member of the Board a copy of any report to be submitted
  pursuant to paragraph (1) at least 14 days before its submission, and
  (B) allow each member of the Board to have 14 days within which to prepare
  and submit supplemental views with respect to the recommendations of the
  Board for inclusion in such report.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States
President of the Senate