 
--H.R.5605--
H.R.5605
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize and direct land ownership consolidation in the Cedar River
Watershed,
Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, Washington.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Cedar River Watershed Land Exchange Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. CEDAR RIVER WATERSHED, WASHINGTON.
  (a) IN GENERAL- If the city of Seattle, Washington, agrees to convey lands
  to the United States in accordance with this section, the Secretary of
  Agriculture, in exchange for such lands, shall agree to convey to the City
  the Federal exchange lands.
  (b) EXCHANGE FOR CITY LANDS-
  (1) APPRAISAL OF FEDERAL LANDS- Not later than nine months after the date
  of enactment of this Act, the Federal exchange lands shall be appraised
  and the results of the appraisal transmitted to the Secretary and the City.
  (2) OFFER OF CITY LANDS AND APPRAISAL-
  (A) CANDIDATE CITY LANDS- Within 60 days after the receipt of the appraisal
  under paragraph (1), the City shall submit to the Secretary a list of
  candidate lands for conveyance to the United States under this section. Such
  candidate lands shall be selected by the City from the City lands.
  (B) ACCEPTABLE CITY LANDS- Not later than three months after receipt of
  the list of candidate lands under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall
  determine, in the discretion of the Secretary, which of the candidate City
  lands to accept. Such lands acceptable to the Secretary shall be appraised
  within 90 days after such determination and the results of the appraisal
  transmitted to both the Secretary and the City. The Secretary shall accept
  lands included on such list unless the lands are not valuable for purposes
  of the National Forest System, including management as contiguous units
  with other National Forest System lands.
  (3) CONSUMMATION OF EXCHANGE OF INITIAL PARCELS- Not later than two years
  after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall transfer to the
  City parcels of the Federal exchange lands with a total value approximately
  equal to the value of the City lands the Secretary determines acceptable
  under paragraph (2). The Secretary may also accept money to equalize the
  value of the lands involved in the exchange, subject to subsection (f)(2).
  (c) EQUALIZATION FOR REMAINING FEDERAL EXCHANGE LANDS- If the value of
  the City lands conveyed and money accepted under subsection (b) is not
  equal to the value of all of the Federal exchange lands, the following
  provisions shall apply:
  (1) WAIVER BY THE CITY- In the event the value of the City lands conveyed
  under subsection (b) is greater than the value of all of the Federal
  exchange lands, any cash equalization which might otherwise be owed to
  the City by the United States shall be waived.
  (2) IDENTIFICATION OF EQUALIZATION LANDS AND MONEY BY THE CITY-
  (A) IN GENERAL- In the event the value of the City lands conveyed and money
  accepted under subsection (b) is less than the value of all of the Federal
  exchange lands, the City shall, within five years after the date of initial
  consummation of the exchange under subsection (b), submit to the Secretary
  a list of lands, an amount of money, or a combination thereof which has in
  the aggregate a value equal to the difference in value between the City
  lands exchanged under subsection (b) and the value of all of the Federal
  exchange lands.
  (B) FOREST LANDS- Any lands included on the list pursuant to subparagraph
  (A) shall consist only of a tract or tracts of land within or adjacent to
  national forests in the State of Washington which have been--
  (i) mutually identified by the Secretary and the City in advance of their
  inclusion on the list as acceptable to the Secretary for transfer to the
  United States;
  (ii) appraised in accordance with this section within 90 days after their
  identification under clause (i); and
  (iii) acquired by the City from a willing seller or sellers.
  (3) COMPLETION OF EXCHANGE- Not later than the end of the five-year period
  specified in paragraph (2)(A), the Secretary shall convey to the City the
  remaining Federal exchange lands in exchange for the conveyance by the
  City to the Secretary of lands and money acceptable to the Secretary for
  transfer to the United States pursuant to paragraph (2).
  (d) APPRAISALS-
  (1) FINDING- The Congress finds that use restrictions on the Cedar River
  Watershed imposed by Public Law 97-350 (96 Stat. 1661) coupled with the
  uncertainties surrounding the status of the lands as habitat for the
  northern spotted owl currently make appraisal of such lands difficult or
  unfeasible absent specific guidance from Congress.
  (2) APPRAISAL ASSUMPTIONS- (A) Except as otherwise provided by this
  subsection, lands to be exchanged pursuant to this section shall be
  appraised by an appraiser mutually acceptable to the City and the United
  States in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land
  Acquisitions and section 206(d) of the Federal Land Policy and Management
  Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(d)).
  (B) Federal exchange lands shall be appraised for the purposes of this
  section in a manner that reflects the deed restrictions imposed on the lands
  by subsection (e) and other applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Both
  Federal exchange lands and City lands located within Critical Habitat Units
  for the northern spotted owl (as identified by the United States Fish and
  Wildlife Service, January 1992) shall be appraised as if subject to the
  deed restrictions under subsection (e).
  (3) COSTS- All costs of the appraisals shall be borne by the City.
  (4) REQUIREMENT LIMITATION- After an appraisal of lands for the purposes
  of this Act is accepted by both the Secretary and the City, such lands may
  not be appraised again for the purposes of this Act during the seven year
  period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
  (e) DEED RESTRICTIONS- The patent or other instrument of conveyance issued
  to the City for the Federal exchange lands conveyed under this section
  shall be restricted to provide the following prohibitions:
  (1) The disposal of the lands or harvest of late-successional or old-growth
  timber, except for any timber sale or salvage sale approved before October
  1, 1992, shall be prohibited.
  (2) The disposal of land or harvest of timber and the construction of
  roads, structures, or other developed facilities on any such lands within
  the area identified as Critical Habitat Unit WA-33 (as identified by the
  United States Fish and Wildlife Service, January 1992), shall be prohibited
  except for routine maintenance of existings roads, trails, and drainage
  structures, and except as necessary to meet minimum requirements for the
  administration of the area to protect water quality or public health and
  safety, to maintain existing roads and trails, to help protect biological
  diversity or threatened or endangered species, or to regenerate old-growth
  forest ecosystems in second growth areas.
  (f) OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING EXCHANGE-
  (1) LANDS WITH SENSITIVE ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES- The Secretary may not
  reject lands suggested for conveyance by the City under this section
  solely on the basis that such lands contain sensitive environmental values
  (including but not limited to old-growth forest or threatened or endangered
  species habitat).
  (2) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF MONETARY PAYMENT- In carrying out the exchange
  of lands under this section, the amount of money paid to the United States
  under this section may not exceed 25 percent of the total value of the
  Federal exchange lands.
  (3) SISK ACT- Any money received by the United States pursuant to this
  section shall be considered money received and deposited pursuant to the
  Act of December 4, 1967, as amended (Public Law 90-171, 16 U.S.C. 484a,
  commonly known as the `Sisk Act').
  (4) SPECIAL RULE- Determinations made by the Secretary in carrying out
  this section shall not be considered as decisionmaking.
  (g) INCLUSION OF LANDS IN APPROPRIATE SYSTEM OR UNIT- Lands acquired by
  the United States pursuant to this section shall be added to and become a
  part of the National Forest System or, as appropriate, such other system
  or area within which such lands are located and shall be administered as
  part of such System, unit, or area as provided by section 206(c) of the
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(c)). If
  any such lands lie outside the exterior boundaries of a national forest,
  the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to modify the exterior
  boundaries of such forest to include such lands.
  (h) INTERIM MANAGEMENT- In order to protect the quality of drinking water
  and other values in the Cedar River Watershed during the period before
  the land exchange authorized and required by this section is completed,
  the Secretary of Agriculture shall manage the National Forest System lands
  within the hydrographic boundaries of the watershed to--
  (1) prohibit public access to the watershed, except to--
  (A) allow access only for the discharge of official duties related to the
  management of the Mt. Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest by Federal employees,
  holders of Forest Service contracts, and agents of the Forest Service; and
  (B) allow access by officials of the City of Seattle and others authorized
  by the City; and
  (2) maintain or improve existing characteristics of the watershed, including
  prohibiting the harvest of late-successional or old-growth timber, except
  for any timber sale or salvage sale approved before October 1, 1992.
  (i) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section:
  (1) CITY- The term `City' means the city of Seattle, Washington.
  (2) CITY LANDS- The term `City lands' means approximately 17,587 acres of
  lands eligible to be conveyed by the City under this section, as generally
  described in `Cedar River Land Exchange: City of Seattle Water Department
  Offered Lands', dated September 1, 1992.
  (3) EQUALIZATION LANDS- The term `equalization lands' means any lands
  conveyed to the United States under subsection (c)(2) for the purpose of
  equalizing the difference in value between the City lands accepted by the
  Secretary under subsection (b) and the Federal exchange lands.
  (4) FEDERAL EXCHANGE LANDS- The term `Federal exchange lands' means the
  approximately 16,963 acres of lands owned by the United States located in
  the Cedar River Watershed in King County, Washington, as generally depicted
  on a map entitled `Cedar River Exchange-Forest Service Selected Lands'
  September 1, 1992.
  (5) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Agriculture.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.