 
--H.R.2896--
H.R.2896
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to revise the boundaries of the
Minute Man National Historical Park in the State of Massachusetts, and for
other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Minute Man National Historical Park Amendments
  of 1991'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO MINUTE MAN PARK ACT.
  The Act of September 21, 1959, entitled `An Act to provide for the
  establishment of the Minute Man National Historical Park in Massachusetts,
  and for other purposes' (Public Law 86-321; 73 Stat. 590; 16 U.S.C. 410s
  and following) is amended by striking so much of the first section as
  follows the first sentence thereof (including all of subsections (b) and
  (c)) and inserting the following:
`The purposes of the park shall include the preservation and interpretation
of (1) the historic landscape along the road between Lexington and Concord,
(2) sites associated with the causes and consequences of the American
Revolution, and (3) the Wayside on Lexington Road in Concord, the home of
Nathaniel Hawthorne, Bronson Alcott, Louisa May Alcott, and Margaret Sidney,
whose works illustrate the nineteenth century American literary renaissance.
  `(b) The park shall be comprised of the lands depicted on the map entitled
  `Boundary Map NARO-406-20015C', dated June 1991.'.
  (3) Section 2 is amended by inserting `(a)' after `SEC. 2.' and by adding
  the following at the end thereof:
  `(b) The Secretary of the Interior shall transfer, without reimbursement,
  to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense the two
  parcels currently administered by the Secretary of the Interior, as
  depicted on the map dated April 1990 and numbered NARO-406/80805. The
  Secretary of Defense shall transfer to the administrative jurisdiction
  of the Secretary of the Interior, without reimbursement, for inclusion
  in the Minute Man National Historical Park the 4 parcels now administered
  by the Secretary of Defense, as depicted on the maps dated April 1990 and
  numbered NARO-406/80804 and NARO-406/80805.
  `(c) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire by donation,
  purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, lands or interests
  in lands within the areas included within the boundaries of the park pursuant
  to amendments made by the Minute Man National Historical Park Amendments
  of 1991 (hereinafter referred to as `1991 additions'), except that--
  `(1)  lands, and interests in lands, within the 1991 additions which are
  owned by the State of Massachusetts or any political subdivision thereof,
  may be acquired only by donation, and
  `(2) lands, and interests in lands, within the 1991 additions which are
  used for noncommercial residential purposes as of July 1, 1991, may be
  acquired only with the consent of the owner thereof unless the property
  is being developed, or is proposed to be developed, in a manner which the
  Secretary determines to be detrimental to the scenic, historical, cultural,
  and other values of the park.
Nothing in paragraph (2) shall be construed to prohibit the use of condemnation
as a means of acquiring a clear and marketable title, free of any and all
encumbrances for any lands within the 1991 additions. Not later than 6 months
after the enactment of the Minute Man National Historical Park Amendments
of 1991, and after notice and opportunity for public comment, the Secretary
of the Interior shall publish specific guidelines for making determinations
under paragraph (2). Such guidelines shall provide for (A) written notice
to the Secretary prior to commencement of any proposed development on the
lands referred to in paragraph (2), (B) written notice by the Secretary
to the owner of such lands of any determination proposed to be made under
paragraph (2), and (C) a reasonable opportunity for the owner to comment on
such proposed determination.
  `(d)(1) Any individual who owns private property acquired by the Secretary
  under subsection (c) may, on the date of such acquisition and as a condition
  of such acquisition, retain for himself and his successors or assigns,
  a right of use and occupancy of the property for a definite term of not
  more than 25 years from the date of acquisition by the Secretary or a
  term ending at the death of the owner or the owner's spouse, whichever is
  later. The owner shall elect the term to be reserved.
  `(2) Unless the property is wholly or partially donated, the Secretary shall
  pay to the owner reserving a right of use and occupancy under this subsection
  the fair market value of the property on the date of its acquisition,
  less the fair market value on that date of the right retained by the owner.
  `(3) For purposes of applying this subsection, ownership shall be determined
  as of July 1, 1991.'.
  (4) At the end of section 6 insert `For fiscal years after fiscal year
  1991, there is authorized to be appropriated an additional $15,000,000
  for development and an additional $7,300,000 for acquisition of lands and
  interests in lands.'.
  (5) Add the following new section at the end of such Act:
`SEC. 7. RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY.
  `(a) OFFER- In the case of each individual who--
  `(1) sold residential property between 1966 and 1968 to the United States
  for purposes of the park, and
  `(2) continues to occupy such residential property pursuant to a residential
  special use permit as of the enactment of this section,
the Secretary of the Interior shall offer to extend such residential
special use permit for a term ending on the death of such individual or such
individual's spouse, whichever is later.
  `(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Any residential special use permit extended
  pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) permit the reasonable residential use and occupancy of the property
  by the individual to whom such permit is granted and such individual's
  spouse; and
  `(2) be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe
  (including termination) to ensure that the permit does not unreasonably
  diminish the values of the park.
The extension of any such residential special use permit shall be conditional
upon the payment by the individual holding such permit of an annual fee in
the same amount as required as of July 1, 1991.
`SEC. 8. DEFINITION.
  `As used in this Act, the term `residential property' means a single-family
  dwelling, the construction of which began before July 1, 1991, together with
  such land on which the dwelling and appurtenant buildings are located as
  is in the same ownership as such dwelling and as the Secretary designates
  as reasonably necessary for the owner's continued use and occupancy of
  the dwelling.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.