 
--H.R.3327--
H.R.3327
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, to provide for the designation of
an Assistant Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs as the Chief
Minority Affairs Officer of the Department.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CHIEF MINORITY AFFAIRS OFFICER.
 (a) CHIEF MINORITY AFFAIRS OFFICER- Chapter 3 of title 38, United States
 Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 317. Chief Minority Affairs Officer
 `(a) The Secretary shall designate one of the Assistant Secretaries of the
 Department as the Chief Minority Affairs Officer of the Department.
 `(b) The Chief Minority Affairs Officer shall have the following duties:
 `(1) To investigate and examine the policies, regulations, programs, and
 other activities of the Department as they affect minority group members
 who are veterans or receive benefits from the Department.
 `(2) To assess the needs of minority group members who are veterans or
 who receive benefits from the Department as those needs relate to the
 activities of, and benefits provided by, the Department and to evaluate
 the manner and extent to which the activities of, and benefits provided,
 by the Department fulfill those needs.
 `(3) To advise the Secretary regarding the effect on minority group members of
 policies, regulations, programs, and other activities of the Department and
 of methods to ensure that minority group members are afforded an opportunity
 to participate fully in the activities and benefits of the Department.
 `(4) To carry out any additional functions and activities that the Secretary
 prescribes with regard to minority group members who are veterans or who
 receive benefits from the Department.
 `(c) In this section, the term `minority group member' means an individual
 who is--
 `(1) Asian American;
 `(2) Black;
 `(3) Hispanic;
 `(4) Native American (including American Indian, Alaskan Native, and Native
 Hawaiian);
 `(5) Pacific-Islander American; or
 `(6) female.
 `(d) Not less than every two years, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress
 a report containing a detailed description of any activities and policies of
 the Department relating to minority group members who are veterans or who
 receive benefits from the Department and the duties of the Chief Minority
 Affairs Officer, with respect to the previous two-year period.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT- The table of sections at the beginning of such
 chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`317. Chief Minority Affairs Officer.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.