 
--H.R.4773--
H.R.4773
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for reporting of pregnancy success rates of assisted reproductive
technology programs and for the certification of embryo laboratories.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Fertility Clinic Success Rate and Certification
  Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY PROGRAMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Effective 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, each assisted reproductive technology (as defined in section 7)
  program shall annually report to the Secretary through the Centers for
  Disease Control--
  (1) pregnancy success rates achieved by such program through each assisted
  reproductive technology, and
  (2) the identity of each embryo laboratory (as defined in section 7) used
  by such program and whether the laboratory is certified under section 3
  or has applied for such certification.
  (b) PREGNANCY SUCCESS RATES-
  (1) IN GENERAL- For purposes of subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall, in
  consultation with the organizations referenced in subsection (c), define
  pregnancy success rates and shall make public any proposed definition
  in such manner as to facilitate comment from any person (including any
  Federal or other public agency) during its development.
  (2) DEFINITION- In developing the definition of pregnancy success rates,
  the Secretary shall take into account the effect on success rates of age,
  diagnosis, and other significant factors and shall include in such rates--
  (A) the basic live birth rate calculated for each assisted reproductive
  technology performed by an assisted reproductive technology program by
  dividing the number of pregnancies which result in live births by the
  number of ovarian stimulation procedures attempted by such program, and
  (B) the live birth rate per successful oocyte retrieval procedure calculated
  for each assisted reproductive technology performed by an assisted
  reproductive technology program by dividing the number of pregnancies
  which result in live births by the number of successful oocyte retrieval
  procedures performed by such program.
  (c) CONSULTATION- In developing the definition under subsection (b),
  the Secretary shall consult with appropriate consumer and professional
  organizations with expertise in using, providing, and evaluating professional
  services and embryo laboratories associated with assisted reproductive
  technologies.
SEC. 3. CERTIFICATION OF EMBRYO LABORATORIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL-
  (1) DEVELOPMENT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary, through the Centers for Disease Control,
  shall develop a model program for the certification of embryo laboratories
  (referred to in this section as a `certification program') to be carried
  out by the States.
  (2) CONSULTATION- In developing the certification program under paragraph
  (1), the Secretary shall consult with appropriate consumer and professional
  organizations with expertise in using, providing, and evaluating professional
  services and embryo laboratories associated with the assisted reproductive
  technology programs.
  (b) DISTRIBUTION- The Secretary shall distribute a description of the
  certification program to--
  (1) the Governor of each State,
  (2) the presiding officers of each State legislature,
  (3) the public health official of each State, and
  (4) the official responsible in each State for the operation of the State's
  contract with the Secretary under section 1864 of the Social Security Act,
and shall encourage such officials to assist in the State adopting such
program.
  (c) REQUIREMENTS- The certification program shall include the following
  requirements:
  (1) ADMINISTRATION- The certification program shall be administered
  by the State and shall provide for the inspection and certification of
  embryo laboratories in the State by the State or by approved accreditation
  organizations.
  (2) APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS- The certification program shall provide
  for the submission of an application to a State by an embryo laboratory
  for certification, in such form as may be specified by the State. Such an
  application shall include--
  (A) assurances satisfactory to the State that the embryo laboratory will
  be operated in accordance with the standards under subsection (d),
  (B) a report to the State identifying the assisted reproductive technology
  programs with which the laboratory is associated, and
  (C) such other information as the State finds necessary.
An embryo laboratory which meets the requirements of section 353 of the Public
Health Service Act shall, for the purposes of subparagraph (A) be considered
in compliance with the standards referred to in such subparagraph which are
the same as the standards in effect under such section 353.
  (d) STANDARDS- The certification program shall include the following
  standards developed by the Secretary:
  (1) A standard to assure consistent performance of procedures by each
  embryo laboratory certified under the certification program or by an
  approved accreditation organization in a State which has not adopted the
  certification program.
  (2) A standard for a quality assurance and a quality control program to
  assure valid, reliable, and reproduceable procedures in the laboratory.
  (3) A standard for the maintenance of records (on a program by program basis)
  on laboratory tests and procedures performed, including the scientific basis
  of, and the methodology used for, the tests, procedures, and preparation of
  any standards or controls, criteria for acceptable and unacceptable outcomes,
  criteria for sample rejection, and procedures for safe sample disposal.
  (4) A standard for the maintenance of written records on personnel and
  facilities necessary for proper and effective operation of the laboratory,
  schedules of preventive maintenance, function verification for equipment,
  and the release of such records to the State upon demand.
  (5) A standard for the use of such personnel who meet such qualifications
  as the Secretary may develop.
  (e) CERTIFICATION UNDER STATE PROGRAMS- A State may qualify to adopt
  the certification program if the State has submitted an application to
  the Secretary to adopt such program and the Secretary has approved the
  application. Such an application shall include--
  (1) assurances by the State satisfactory to the Secretary that the
  certification program within the State meets the requirements of this
  section,
  (2) an agreement to make such reports as the Secretary may require, and
  (3) information about any proposed use of accreditation organizations
  under subsection (g).
  (f) USE OF ACCREDITATION ORGANIZATIONS- A State which has adopted the
  certification program may use accreditation organizations approved under
  section 4 to inspect and certify embryo laboratories.
  (g) INSPECTIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- A State which qualifies to adopt the certification program
  within the State shall conduct inspections in accordance with paragraph
  (2) to determine if laboratories in the State meet the requirements of
  such program. Such inspections shall be carried out by the State or by
  accreditation organizations used by the State under subsection (g).
  (2) REQUIREMENTS- Inspections carried out under paragraph (1) shall--
  (A) be periodic and unannounced, or
  (B) be announced in such circumstances as the Secretary determines will
  not diminish the likelihood of discovering deficiencies in the operations
  of a laboratory.
Before making a determination under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall make
public, in such manner as to facilitate comment from any person (including
any Federal or other public agency), a proposal indicating the circumstances
under which announced inspections would be permitted.
  (3) RESULTS- The specific findings, including deficiencies, identified in an
  inspection carried out under paragraph (1) and any subsequent corrections to
  those deficiencies shall be announced and made available to the public upon
  request beginning no later than 60 days after the date of the inspection.
  (h) VALIDATION INSPECTIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may enter and inspect, during regular hours
  of operation, embryo laboratories--
  (A) which have been certified by a State under the certification program, or
  (B) which have been certified by an accreditation organization approved
  by the Secretary under section 4,
for the purpose of determining whether the laboratory is being operated in
accordance with the standards in subsection (d).
  (2) ACCESS TO FACILITIES AND RECORDS- In conducting an inspection of an
  embryo laboratory under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall have access
  to all facilities, equipment, materials, records, and information which
  the Secretary determines is necessary to determine if such laboratory is
  being operated in accordance with the standards in subsection (d). As part
  of such an inspection, the Secretary may copy any material, record, or
  information inspected or require it to be submitted to the Secretary. Such
  an inspection may be made only upon the presentation of identification to
  the owner, operator, or agent in charge of the laboratory being inspected.
  (3) FAILURE TO COMPLY- If the Secretary determines as a result of an
  inspection under paragraph (1) that the embryo laboratory is not in
  compliance with the standards in subsection (d), the Secretary shall--
  (A) notify the State in which the laboratory is located and, if appropriate,
  the accreditation organization which certified the laboratory,
  (B) make available to the public the results of the inspection,
  (C) conduct additional inspections of other embryo laboratories under
  paragraph (1) to determine if--
  (i) such State in carrying out the certification program is reliably
  identifying the deficiencies of such laboratory, or
  (ii) the accreditation organization which certified such laboratories is
  reliably identifying such deficencies, and
  (D) if the Secretary determines--
  (i) that such State in carrying out the certification program has not met
  the requirements applicable to such program, or
  (ii) the accreditation organization which certified such laboratory has
  not met the requirements of section 4,
the Secretary may revoke the approval of the State certification program or
revoke the approval of such accreditation organization.
  (i) LIMITATION-
  (1) SECRETARY- In developing the certification program, the Secretary
  may not establish any regulation, standard, or requirement which has the
  effect of exercising supervision or control over the practice of medicine
  in assisted reproductive technology programs.
  (2) STATE- In adopting the certification program, a State may not establish
  any regulation, standard, or requirement which has the effect of exercising
  supervision or control over the practice of medicine in assisted reproductive
  technology programs.
  (j) TERM- The term of a certification issued by a State or an accreditation
  organization in a State shall be prescribed by the Secretary in the
  certification program and shall be valid for a period of time to be defined
  by the Secretary through the public comment process described in subsection
  (h)(2). The Secretary shall provide an application for recertification
  to be submitted at the time of changes in the ownership of a certified
  laboratory or changes in the administration of such a laboratory.
SEC. 4. ACCREDITATION ORGANIZATIONS.
  (a) APPROVAL OF ACCREDITATION ORGANIZATIONS- Not later than 2 years
  after the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary, through the
  Centers for Disease Control, shall promulgate criteria and procedures
  for the approval of accreditation organizations to inspect and certify
  embryo laboratories. The procedures shall require an application to the
  Secretary by an accreditation organization for approval. An accreditation
  organization which has received such an approval--
  (1) may be used by States in the certification program under section 3 to
  inspect and certify embryo laboratories, or
  (2) may certify embryo laboratories in States which have not adopted such
  a certification program.
  (b) CRITERIA AND PROCEDURES- The criteria and procedures promulgated under
  subsection (a) shall include--
  (1) requirements for submission of such reports and the maintenance of
  such records as the Secretary or a State may require, and
  (2) requirements for the conduct of inspections under section 3(h).
  (c) EVALUATIONS- The Secretary shall evaluate annually the performance of
  each accreditation organization approved by the Secretary by--
  (1) inspecting under section 3(i) a sufficient number of embryo laboratories
  accredited by such an organization to allow a reasonable estimate of the
  performance of such organization, and
  (2) such other means as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
  (d) TRANSITION- If the Secretary revokes approval under section 3(i)(3)(D)
  of an accreditation organization after an evaluation under subsection (c),
  the certification of any embryo laboratory accredited by the organization
  shall continue in effect for 60 days after the laboratory is notified by
  the Secretary of the withdrawal of approval, except that the Secretary may
  extend the period during which the certification shall remain in effect
  if the Secretary determines that the laboratory submitted an application
  to another approved accreditation organization for certification after
  receipt of such notice in a timely manner.
SEC. 5. CERTIFICATION REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- A certification issued by a State or an accreditation
  organization for an embryo laboratory shall be revoked or suspended if
  the State or organization finds, on the basis of inspections and after
  reasonable notice and opportunity for hearing to the owner or operator of the
  laboratory, that the owner or operator or any employee of the laboratory--
  (1) has been guilty of misrepresentation in obtaining the certification,
  (2) has failed to comply with any standards under section 3 applicable to
  the certification, or
  (3) has refused a request of the State or accreditation organization for
  permission to inspect the laboratory, its operations, and records.
  (b) EFFECT- If the certification of an embryo laboratory is revoked or
  suspended, the certification of the laboratory shall continue in effect
  for 60 days after the laboratory receives notice of the revocation or
  suspension. If the certification of an embryo laboratory is revoked or
  suspended, the laboratory may apply for recertification after one year
  after the date of the revocation or suspension.
SEC. 6. PUBLICATION.
  The Secretary, through the Centers for Disease Control, shall not later
  than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually
  thereafter publish and distribute to the States and the public--
  (1)(A) pregnancy success rates reported to the Secretary under section
  2(a)(1) and, in the case of an assisted reproductive technology program
  which failed to report one or more success rates as required under such
  section, the name of each such program and each pregnancy success rate
  which the program failed to report, and
  (B) from information reported under section 2(a)(2)--
  (i) the identity of each embryo laboratory in a State which has adopted
  the certification program under such program and whether such laboratory
  is certified under section 3,
  (ii) the identity of each embryo laboratory in a State which has not
  adopted such certification program and which has been certified by an
  accreditation organization approved by the Secretary under section 4, and
  (iii) in the case of an embryo laboratory which is not certified under
  section 3 or certified by an accreditation organization approved by the
  Secretary under section 4, whether the laboratory applied for certification.
SEC. 7. FEES.
  The Secretary may require the payment of fees for the purpose of, and
  in an amount sufficient to cover the cost of, administering this Act. A
  State operating a program under section 3 may require the payment of fees
  for the purpose of, and in an amount sufficient to cover the costs of,
  administering its program.
SEC. 8. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act:
  (1)  ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY- The term `assisted reproductive
  technology' means all treatments or procedures which include the handling
  of human oocytes or embryos, including in vitro fertilization, gamete
  intrafallopian transfer, zygote intrafallopian transfer, and such other
  specific technologies as the Secretary may include in this definition,
  after making public any proposed definition in such manner as to facilitate
  comment from any person (including any Federal or other public agency).
  (2) EMBRYO LABORATORY- The term `embryo laboratory' means a facility
  in which human oocytes are subject to assisted reproductive technology
  treatment or procedures based on manipulation of oocytes or embryos which
  are subject to implantation.
  (3) SECRETARY- The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health and
  Human Services.
SEC. 9. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  This Act shall take effect upon the expiration of 2 years after the date
  of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.