 
--H.R.1282--
H.R.1282
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Making supplemental appropriations and transfers for `Operation Desert
Shield/Desert Storm' for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are appropriated,
 out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to provide
 supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991,
 and for other purposes, namely:
PERSIAN GULF REGIONAL DEFENSE FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For incremental costs of the Department of Defense and the Department of
 Transportation associated with operations in and around the Persian Gulf as
 part of operations currently known as Operation Desert Shield (including
 Operation Desert Storm), $15,000,000,000 is appropriated to the Persian
 Gulf Regional Defense Fund, which is hereby established in the Treasury of
 the United States, and in addition such sums as necessary are appropriated
 from current and future balances in the Defense Cooperation Account, to be
 available only for transfer in a total amount not to exceed $42,625,822,000
 to the following chapters and accounts in not to exceed the following amounts:
CHAPTER I
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE--MILITARY
MILITARY PERSONNEL
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Military Personnel, Army
 For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, Army', $4,863,700,000.
Military Personnel, Navy
 For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, Navy', $797,400,000.
Military Personnel, Marine Corps
 For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, Marine Corps', $983,400,000.
Military Personnel, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Military Personnel, Air Force', $1,278,200,000.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Operation and Maintenance, Army
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Army',
 $15,082,750,000, of which $350,000 shall be available only for the 1991
 Memorial Day Celebration.
Operation and Maintenance, Navy
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Navy',
 $2,758,500,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Marine Corps',
 $1,205,000,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Air Force',
 $3,701,000,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Defense Agencies
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Defense Agencies',
 $203,000,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Navy Reserve',
 $16,000,000.
Operation and Maintenance, Air National Guard
 For an additional amount for `Operation and Maintenance, Air National
 Guard', $55,000,000.
PROCUREMENT
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Aircraft Procurement, Army
 For an additional amount for `Aircraft procurement, Army', $7,100,000.
Missile Procurement, Army
 For an additional amount for `Missile procurement, Army', $663,500,000.
Procurement of Weapons and Tracked Combat Vehicles, Army
 For an additional amount for `Procurement of weapons and tracked combat
 vehicles, Army', $26,300,000.
Procurement of Ammunition, Army
 For an additional amount for `Procurement of ammunition, Army', $509,600,000.
Other Procurement, Army
 For an additional amount for `Other procurement, Army', $62,300,000.
Aircraft Procurement, Navy
 For an additional amount for `Aircraft procurement, Navy', $25,200,000.
Weapons Procurement, Navy
 For an additional amount for `Weapons procurement, Navy', $815,600,000.
Other Procurement, Navy
 For an additional amount for `Other procurement, Navy', $34,800,000.
Procurement, Marine Corps
 For an additional amount for `Procurement, Marine Corps', $127,450,000.
Aircraft Procurement, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Aircraft procurement, Air Force', $59,600,000.
Missile Procurement, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Missile procurement, Air Force', $645,500,000.
Other Procurement, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Other procurement, Air Force', $422,800,000.
Procurement, Defense Agencies
 For an additional amount for `Procurement, Defense Agencies', $15,400,000.
RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST AND EVALUATION
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Army
 For an additional amount for `Research, Development, Test and Evaluation,
 Army', $30,100,000.
Research, Development, Test and Evaluation, Air Force
 For an additional amount for `Research, Development, Test and Evaluation,
 Air Force', $39,000,000.
REVOLVING AND MANAGEMENT FUNDS
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Army Stock Fund
 For an additional amount for `Army Stock Fund', $214,000,000.
Air Force Stock Fund
 For an additional amount for `Air Force Stock Fund', $57,000,000.
COMBAT COSTS OF OPERATION DESERT SHIELD/DESERT STORM
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 For expenses, not otherwise provided for, necessary to finance the estimated
 partial costs of combat and other related costs of Operation Desert
 Shield/Desert Storm in the following additional amounts: for Operation and
 maintenance, $6,000,000,000; for Procurement, $1,872,700,000, to remain
 available for obligation until September 30, 1993: Provided, That the
 Secretary of Defense shall not make any transfer from the Persian Gulf
 Regional Defense Fund or from the Defense Cooperation Account for combat
 costs until the seventh day after notifying the Committees on Appropriations
 and Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives of any such
 transfer.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 101. (a) In administering the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund, the
 Secretary of Defense shall use the corpus of the Fund only to the extent
 that amounts from the Defense Cooperation Account established under section
 2608 of title 10, United States Code, are not currently available.
 (b) If the balance of the corpus of the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund
 is less than $15,000,000,000, the Secretary shall transfer amounts from
 the Defense Cooperation Account to the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund,
 to the extent that amounts are available in that Account, to restore the
 balance in the corpus of the Fund to $15,000,000,000.
 (c) For purposes of this section, the term `corpus of the Fund' means
 the amount of $15,000,000,000 appropriated by this Act to the Persian Gulf
 Regional Defense Fund from the general fund of the Treasury, as such amount is
 restored from time to time by transfers from the Defense Cooperation Account.
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 102. (a) The authority provided in this Act to transfer funds from the
 Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund and from the Defense Cooperation Account
 is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in this or any other
 Act making appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 1991.
 (b) Amounts transferred from the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund and
 from the Defense Cooperation Account shall be merged with and be available
 for the same purposes and the same time period as the appropriations to
 which transferred.
 (c) Amounts appropriated to the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund shall
 remain available until transferred.
 (d)(1) Upon payment of all incremental costs associated with the purpose
 for which the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund is established, the Fund
 shall be terminated.
 (2) If the balance in the Fund at the time of the termination is
 $15,000,000,000 or less, the balance shall revert to the general fund of
 the Treasury.
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
 SEC. 103. (a) For the purpose of adjusting amounts appropriated to the
 Department of Defense for fiscal year 1991 to reflect changes in expenses
 due to the order to active duty (other than for training) of members of the
 National Guard and Reserves in connection with operations in and around the
 Persian Gulf as part of operations currently known as Operation Desert Shield
 (including Operation Desert Storm), the Secretary of Defense may during
 fiscal year 1991 transfer not to exceed $446,000,000 among the fiscal year
 1991 Military Personnel appropriation accounts of the Department of Defense.
 (b) Amounts transferred under subsection (a) shall be merged with and be
 available for the same purposes and the same time period as the appropriations
 to which transferred.
 (c) A transfer of funds under subsection (a) is subject to regular
 congressional reprogramming notification requirements.
 (d) The transfer authority in subsection (a) is in addition to any other
 transfer authority contained in this or any other Act making appropriations
 for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 1991.
 SEC. 104. None of the funds appropriated to the Persian Gulf Regional
 Defense Fund shall be used for fuel price increases.
 SEC. 105. Any CHAMPUS (Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed
 Services) medical provider may voluntarily waive the patient co-payment
 for medical services provided from August 2, 1990, until the termination of
 Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm for dependents of active duty personnel:
 Provided, That the government's share of medical services is not increased
 during the specified time period.
 SEC. 106. Mitchel Field Health Care Facility in the State of New York shall
 only be funded from the Operation and Maintenance, Navy, appropriation and
 shall not be funded or included within the congressionally imposed ceiling
 of the Uniformed Services Treatment Facility account.
 SEC. 107. (a) All equipment, supplies, and other materials (including
 construction equipment and construction materials described in subsection
 (b)) of the United States that, after August 1, 1990, were transported to or
 procured by the United States in the Middle East for the use of the Armed
 Forces of the United States or the use of the armed forces of any other
 member country of the multinational coalition participating in Operation
 Desert Storm shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be removed from
 the Middle East to the United States or to any United States military
 installation outside the United States and the Middle East as soon as
 practicable in conjunction with the removal of such forces of the Armed
 Forces of the United States from the Middle East.
 (b) The construction equipment and construction materials referred to in
 subsection (a) are construction equipment and construction materials used in
 the construction of military facilities for the Armed Forces of the United
 States in the Middle East in connection with Operation Desert Storm.
 (c) Subsection (a) does not apply to any equipment, supply, or material that--
 (1) is to be transferred to a foreign government under the provisions of
 subsection (e); or
 (2) has negligible value; or
 (3) is to remain under the control of United States forces in the region; or
 (4) is to be stored in the Middle East as prepositioned equipment and
 material for the use of the Armed Forces of the United States; or
 (5) has been expended, depleted, or rendered unusable; or
 (6) has been formally notified to Congress prior to March 20, 1991, under
 the Arms Export Control Act.
 (d) The President should attempt to obtain reimbursement from the government
 of each country in the Middle East for the cost to the United States of
 materials referred to in subsection (a) that are not removed from that
 country because of impracticality.
 (e) Except as deemed essential by the Commander-in-Chief of the United
 States Central Command for the conduct of the war in the Persian Gulf prior
 to a permanent cease-fire, no equipment, supply, or material referred to in
 subsection (a) or which was captured from Iraq by United States forces in the
 context of Operation Desert Storm may be transferred to the government or any
 entity of any foreign country in the Middle East except as provided through
 the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations, the
 Committees on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
 of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
 (f) The President shall notify Congress of the proposed storage of
 any equipment, supply, or material referred to in subsection (a) in a
 prepositioned status referred to in subsection (c)(4).
 (g) The President shall report to the Committees on Appropriations and
 Armed Services of the House of Representatives and Senate sixty days after
 the enactment of this Act, on the quantity, condition, value, disposition,
 and manner of seizure of all enemy equipment falling under the control or the
 possession of the United States, as well as all enemy equipment falling under
 the control of allied forces, within the Desert Storm theater of operations.
 (h) For the purposes of this provision, the term `material' shall include
 all lethal and nonlethal instruments of war and their supporting elements,
 components and subcomponents.
 SEC. 108. (a) Not later than sixty days after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the President shall submit to Congress a report, in both
 classified and unclassified forms, on the redeployment of the forces of
 the Armed Forces of the United States that were deployed in the Persian
 Gulf area in connection with Operation Desert Storm.
 (b) The report shall contain the following information:
 (1) A detailed specification of the costs of the reduction in such forces.
 (2) The schedule for returning such forces to the United States or other
 locations from which the forces were deployed to the Persian Gulf area in
 connection with Operation Desert Storm.
 (3) The size and composition of any element of the Armed Forces of the United
 States that will remain in the Persian Gulf area after fiscal year 1991.
 (4) A detailed discussion of any arrangement for a United States military
 presence that has been made or is expected to be made to the government of
 any country in the Middle East.
 (c) In this section, the term `Operation Desert Storm' means Operation Desert
 Shield, Operation Desert Storm, and any related successive operations of
 the Armed Forces of the United States.
 SEC. 109. None of the funds appropriated or otherwise made available by
 this Act or any other provision of law shall be available for sales,
 credits, or guarantees for defense articles or defense services under
 the Arms Export Control Act to any country that has made a commitment to
 contribute resources to defray any of the costs of Operation Desert Storm
 and that has not fulfilled its commitment.
 SEC. 110. The establishment of the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund by this
 Act and the establishment of a working capital account pursuant to title
 I of the Persian Gulf Conflict Supplemental Authorization and Personnel
 Benefits Act of 1991 shall be treated for all purposes as establishment of
 the same account in the Treasury.
CHAPTER II
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Military Construction, Army
 For an additional amount for `Military Construction, Army', $35,000,000,
 to remain available for obligation until September 30, 1994.
CHAPTER III
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
(TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
COAST GUARD
Operating Expenses
 For an additional amount for `Operating expenses', $18,922,000.
 This Act may be cited as the `Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm
 Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1991'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.