 
--H.R.2977--
H.R.2977
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for public broadcasting, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Public Telecommunications Act
 of 1992'.
PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES AUTHORIZATION
 SEC. 2. Section 391 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 391) is
 amended by striking the first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following: `There are authorized to be appropriated $42,000,000 for each of
 the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994, to be used by the Secretary of Commerce
 to assist in the planning and construction of public telecommunications
 facilities as provided in this subpart.'.
SERVICES FOR UNDERSERVED AUDIENCES
 SEC. 3. Section 393(b)(4) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
 U.S.C. 393(b)(4)) is amended by inserting immediately before the period at the
 end the following: `, including services to underserved audiences such as deaf
 and hearing impaired individuals and blind and visually impaired individuals'.
CONGRESSIONAL DECLARATIONS OF POLICY
 SEC. 4. Section 396(a) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (7);
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (10); and
 (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (7) the following new paragraphs:
 `(8) public television and radio stations and public telecommunications
 services constitute valuable local community resources for utilizing
 electronic media to address national concerns and solve local problems
 through community programs and outreach programs;
 `(9) it is in the public interest for the Federal Government to ensure that
 all citizens of the United States have access to public telecommunications
 services through all appropriate available telecommunications distribution
 technologies; and'.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 SEC. 5. (a) REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF MEMBERS- (1) Section 396(c)(1) of the
 Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(c)(1)) is amended--
 (A) by striking `10' and inserting in lieu thereof `9'; and
 (B) by striking `6' and inserting in lieu thereof `5'.
 (2) Section 396(c)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(c)(2))
 is amended by striking `10' and inserting in lieu thereof `9'.
 (b) TERM OF OFFICE- Section 396(c)(5) of the Communications Act of 1934
 (47 U.S.C. 396(c)(5)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(5) The term of office of each member of the Board appointed by the
 President shall be 6 years, except as provided in section 5(c) of the
 Public Telecommunications Act of 1992. Any member whose term has expired
 may serve until such member's successor has taken office, or until the end
 of the calendar year in which such member's term has expired, whichever
 is earlier. Any member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the
 expiration of the term for which such member's predecessor was appointed
 shall be appointed for the remainder of such term. No member of the Board
 shall be eligible to serve in excess of 2 consecutive full terms.'.
 (c) TRANSITION RULES- (1) With respect to the three offices whose terms
 are prescribed by law to expire on March 26, 1992, the term for each such
 office immediately after that date shall expire on January 31, 1998.
 (2) With respect to the two offices whose terms are prescribed by law to
 expire on March 1, 1994, the term for each of such offices immediately
 after that date shall expire on January 31, 2000.
 (3) With respect to the five offices whose terms are prescribed by law to
 expire on March 26, 1996--
 (A) one such office, as selected by the President, shall be abolished on
 January 31, 1996;
 (B) the term immediately after March 26, 1996, for another such office,
 as designated by the President, shall expire on January 31, 2000; and
 (C) the term for each of the remaining three such offices immediately after
 March 26, 1996, shall expire on January 31, 2002.
 (4) As used in this subsection, the term `office' means an office as a
 member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS
 SEC. 6. Section 396(e)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
 U.S.C. 396(e)(1)) is amended by striking the fourth sentence and inserting in
 lieu the following: `No officer of the Corporation, other than the Chairman
 or a Vice Chairman, may receive any salary or other compensation (except for
 compensation for services on boards of directors of other organizations that
 do not receive funds from the Corporation, on committees of such boards,
 and in similar activities for such organizations) from any sources other
 than the Corporation for services rendered during the period of his or
 her employment by the Corporation. Service by any officer on boards of
 directors of other organizations, on committees of such boards, and in
 similar activities for such organizations shall be subject to annual advance
 approval by the Board and subject to the provisions of the Corporation's
 Statement of Ethical Conduct.'.
CONTENTS OF ANNUAL REPORT
 SEC. 7. Section 396(i)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
 U.S.C. 396(i)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (B);
 (2) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and
 (3) by inserting immediately after subparagraph (B) the following new
 subparagraph:
 `(C) a listing of each organization that receives a grant from the Corporation
 to produce programming, the name of the producer of any programming produced
 under each such grant, the title or description of any program so produced,
 and the amount of each such grant;'.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING AUTHORIZATION
 SEC. 8. (a) EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION- Section 396(k)(1)(C) of the
 Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(1)(C)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `180,000,000 for fiscal year 1981,' and all that follows
 through `$245,000,000 for fiscal year 1991,';
 (2) by striking `and' after `fiscal year 1992,'; and
 (3) by inserting immediately after `fiscal year 1993' the following:
 `, $310,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $375,000,000 for fiscal year 1995,
 and $425,000,000 for fiscal year 1996'.
 (b) ANNUAL REPORT- Section 396(k)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934
 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(1)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subparagraph:
 `(E) In recognition of the importance of educational programs and services,
 and the expansion of public radio services, to unserved and underserved
 audiences, the Corporation, after consultation with the system of public
 telecommunications entities, shall prepare and submit to the Congress an
 annual report for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996 on the
 Corporation's activities and expenditures relating to those programs and
 services.'.
TRAINING AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
 SEC. 9. Section 396(k)(3)(A)(i)(II) of the Communications Act of 1934
 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(3)(A)(i)(II)) is amended by inserting immediately after
 `other than English' the following: `or for assistance in the provision of
 affordable training programs for employees at public broadcast stations'.
INDEPENDENT PRODUCTION SERVICE
 SEC. 10. Section 396(k)(3)(B)(iii)(V) of the Communications Act of 1934
 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(3)(B)(iii)(V)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting immediately after `expenditures of the independent production
 service' the following: `, including carriage and viewing information for
 programs produced or acquired with funds provided pursuant to subclause
 (I)'; and
 (2) by striking `fiscal year 1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `fiscal
 years 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995'.
GRANT DISTRIBUTION CRITERIA
 SEC. 11. Section 396(k)(6)(B) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
 U.S.C. 396(k)(6)(B)) is amended by inserting `(which the Corporation
 shall review periodically in consultation with public radio and television
 licensees or permittees, or their designated representatives)' immediately
 after `eligibility criteria'.
COMPLIANCE WITH EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY REQUIREMENTS BY FUND RECIPIENTS
 SEC. 12. (a) CERTIFICATION AND EMPLOYMENT REPORTS REQUIRED- Section 396(k)
 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(11)(A) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this subsection for any
 fiscal year to the licensee or permittee of any public broadcast station
 if such licensee or permittee--
 `(i) fails to certify to the Corporation that such licensee or permittee
 complies with the Commission's regulations concerning equal employment
 opportunity as published under section 73.2080 of title 47, Code of Federal
 Regulations, or any successor regulations thereto; or
 `(ii) fails to submit to the Corporation the report required by subparagraph
 (B) for the preceding calendar year.
 `(B) A licensee or permittee of any public broadcast station with more than
 five full-time employees to file annually with the Corporation a statistical
 report, consistent with reports required by Commission regulation, identifying
 by race and sex the number of employees in each of the following full-time
 and part-time job categories:
 `(i) Officials and managers.
 `(ii) Professionals.
 `(iii) Technicians.
 `(iv) Semiskilled operatives.
 `(v) Skilled craft persons.
 `(vi) Clerical and office personnel.
 `(vii) Unskilled operatives.
 `(viii) Service workers.
 `(C) In addition, such report shall state the number of job openings
 occurring during the course of the year. Where the job openings were filled
 in accordance with the regulations described in subparagraph (A)(i),
 the report shall so certify, and where the job openings were not filled
 in accordance with such regulations, the report shall contain a statement
 providing reasons therefor. The statistical report shall be available to
 the public at the central office and at every location where more than five
 full-time employees are regularly assigned to work.'.
 (b) COMPILATION OF REPORTS BY CORPORATION- Section 396(m)(2) of the
 Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(m)(2)) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new sentence: `Such report shall include a summary of
 the statistical reports received by the Corporation pursuant to subsection
 (k)(11), and a comparison of the information contained in those reports
 with the information submitted by the Corporation in the previous year's
 annual report.'.
AUDIT REQUIREMENT FOR PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS ENTITIES
 SEC. 13. (a) ALTERNATIVE TO AUDIT FOR CERTAIN ENTITIES-
 Section 396(l)(3)(B)(ii) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47
 U.S.C. 396(l)(3)(B)(ii)) is amended--
 (1) by designating the existing text as subclause (I);
 (2) by striking `and' at the end of subclause (I), as so redesignated,
 and inserting in lieu thereof `or'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subclause:
 `(II) to submit a financial statement in lieu of the audit required by
 subclause (I) if the Corporation determines that the cost burden of such
 audit on such entity is excessive in light of the financial condition of
 such entity; and'.
 (b) FREQUENCY OF AUDIT- Section 396(l)(3)(B) of the Communications Act of
 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(l)(3)(B)) is amended--
 (1) in clause (ii) by striking `biannual' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `biennial'; and
 (2) in clause (iii) by striking `biannually' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `biennially'.
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION
 SEC. 14. (a) CPB INFORMATION- Section 396(l) of the Communications Act of
 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(l)) is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
 `(4)(A) The Corporation shall maintain the information described in
 subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) at its offices for public inspection and
 copying for at least 3 years, according to such reasonable guidelines as the
 Corporation may issue. This public file shall be updated regularly. This
 paragraph shall be effective upon its enactment and shall apply to all
 grants awarded after January 1, 1993.
 `(B) Subsequent to any award of funds by the Corporation for the production
 or acquisition of national broadcasting programming pursuant to subsection
 (k)(3)(A) (ii)(II) or (iii)(II), the Corporation shall make available for
 public inspection the following:
 `(i) Grant and solicitation guidelines for proposals for such programming.
 `(ii) The reasons for selecting the proposal for which the award was made.
 `(iii) Information on each program for which the award was made, including
 the names of the awardee and producer (and if the awardee or producer
 is a corporation or partnership, the principals of such corporation or
 partnership), the monetary amount of the award, and the title and description
 of the program (and of each program in a series of programs).
 `(iv) A report based on the final audit findings resulting from any audit
 of the award by the Corporation or the Comptroller General.
 `(v) Reports which the Corporation shall require to be provided by the awardee
 relating to national public broadcasting programming funded, produced,
 or acquired by the awardee with such funds. Such reports shall include,
 where applicable, the information described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii),
 but shall exclude proprietary, confidential, or privileged information.
 `(C) The Corporation shall make available for public inspection the final
 report required by the Corporation on an annual basis from each recipient
 of funds under subsection (k)(3)(A)(iii)(III), excluding proprietary,
 confidential, or privileged information.
 `(D) The Corporation shall make available for public inspection an annual
 list of national programs distributed by public broadcasting entities
 that receive funds under subsection (k)(3)(A) (ii)(III) or (iii)(II) and
 are engaged primarily in the national distribution of public television
 or radio programs. Such list shall include the names of the programs (or
 program series), producers, and providers of funding.'.
 (b) INDEPENDENT PRODUCTION SERVICE INFORMATION- Section 396(k)(3)(B)(iii)
 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(3)(B)(iii)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subclause:
 `(VI) The Corporation shall not contract to provide funds to any such
 independent production service, unless that service agrees to comply with
 public inspection requirements established by the Corporation within 3 months
 after the date of enactment of this subclause. Under such requirements the
 service shall maintain at its offices a public file, updated regularly,
 containing information relating to the service's award of funds for the
 production of programming. The information shall be available for public
 inspection and copying for at least 3 years and shall be of the same kind as
 the information required to be maintained by the Corporation under subsection
 (l)(4)(B).'.
CLARIFICATION OF CONGRESSIONAL INTENT
 SEC. 15. Section 103(a) of the Children's Television Act of 1990 (47
 U.S.C. 303b(a)) is amended by inserting `commercial or noncommerical'
 immediately before `television broadcast license'.
BROADCASTING OF INDECENT PROGRAMMING
 SEC. 16. (a) FCC REGULATIONS- The Federal Communications Commission shall
 promulgate regulations to prohibit the broadcasting of indecent programming--
 (1) between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. on any day by any public radio station or
 public television station that goes off the air at or before 12 midnight; and
 (2) between 6 a.m. and 12 midnight on any day for any radio or television
 broadcasting station not described in paragraph (1).
The regulations required under this subsection shall be promulgated in
accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, and shall become
final not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) REPEAL- Section 608 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State,
 the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 (Public Law
 100-459; 102 Stat. 2228), is repealed.
READY-TO-LEARN TELEVISION CHANNEL
 SEC. 17. (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) many of the Nation's children are not entering school `ready to learn';
 (2) next to parents and early childhood teachers, television is probably
 the young child's most influential teacher;
 (3) a vital component in meeting the Nation's first education goal is the
 development of interactive programming aimed exclusively at the developmental
 and educational needs and interests of preschool children;
 (4) television can assist parents and preschool and child care teachers in
 gaining information on how young children grow and learn; and
 (5) there is a need for quality interactive instructional programming based on
 worthwhile information on child development designed for children, parents,
 and preschool and child care providers and teachers.
 (b) Within 90 days following the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Corporation for Public Broadcasting shall report to the Congress as to
 the most effective way to establish and implement a ready-to-learn public
 television channel. Such report shall include, among other things--
 (1) the costs of establishing and implementing a ready-to-learn channel;
 (2) the special considerations of using television as a learning tool for
 very young children;
 (3) the technology, and availability thereof, needed to establish and
 implement such a channel; and
 (4) the best means of providing financing for the establishment and
 implementation of a ready-to-learn channel.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING REPORT ON DISTANCE LEARNING
 SEC. 18. (a) The Congress finds that--
 (1) distance learning would provide schools in rural areas with advanced
 or specialized instruction not readily available;
 (2) utilization of distance learning can end some school closings or
 consolidations;
 (3) distance learning will play a vital role in accomplishing the goals of
 `America 2000' as established by the President;
 (4) the Corporation for Public Broadcasting should promote distance learning
 projects where it is cost effective; and
 (5) the Corporation for Public Broadcasting can promote distance learning
 by helping reduce the costs associated with telecommunications services.
 (b) Within 180 days following the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Corporation for Public Broadcasting, in consultation with other education
 program providers and users, shall report to the Congress as to the most
 effective use of their existing telecommunications facilities to establish
 and implement distance learning projects in rural areas. Such report should
 include, among other things, the costs and benefits of establishing national
 demonstration sites to study new distance learning tools and to evaluate the
 most effective use of current distance learning applications; any incentives
 necessary to provide access to Corporation for Public Broadcasting facilities
 for distance learning applications.
OBJECTIVITY AND BALANCE POLICY, PROCEDURES, AND REPORT
 SEC. 19. Pursuant to the existing responsibility of the Corporation for
 Public Broadcasting under section 396(g)(1)(A) of the Communications Act of
 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(g)(1)(A)) to facilitate the full development of public
 telecommunications in which programs of high quality, diversity, creativity,
 excellence, and innovation, which are obtained from diverse sources,
 will be made available to public telecommunications entities, with strict
 adherence to objectivity and balance in all programs or series of programs
 of a controversial nature, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall--
 (1) review the Corporation's existing efforts to meet its responsibility
 under section 396(g)(1)(A);
 (2) after soliciting the views of the public, establish a comprehensive
 policy and set of procedures to--
 (A) provide reasonable opportunity for members of the public to present
 comments to the Board regarding the quality, diversity, creativity,
 excellence, innovation, objectivity, and balance of public broadcasting
 services, including all public broadcasting programming of a controversial
 nature, as well as any needs not met by those services;
 (B) review, on a regular basis, national public broadcasting programming
 for quality, diversity, creativity, excellence, innovation, objectivity,
 and balance, as well as for any needs not met by such programming;
 (C) on the basis of information received through such comment and review,
 take such steps in awarding programming grants pursuant to clauses (ii)(II),
 (iii)(II), and (iii)(III) of section 396(k)(3)(A) of the Communications
 Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)(3)(A)) that it finds necessary to meet
 the Corporation's responsibility under section 396(g)(1)(A), including
 facilitating objectivity and balance in programming of a controversial
 nature; and
 (D) disseminate among public broadcasting entities information about its
 efforts to address concerns about objectivity and balance relating to
 programming of a controversial nature so that such entities can utilize
 the Corporation's experience in addressing such concerns within their own
 operations; and
 (3) starting in 1993, by January 31 of each year, prepare and submit to the
 President for transmittal to the Congress a report summarizing its efforts
 pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2).
CONSUMER INFORMATION
 SEC. 20.  Prior to the expiration of the 90-day period following the date
 of the enactment of this Act, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, in
 consultation with representatives of public broadcasting entities, shall
 develop guidelines to assure that program credits for public television
 programs that receive production funding directly from the Corporation for
 Public Broadcasting adequately disclose that all or a portion of the cost
 of producing such program was paid for by funding from the Corporation for
 Public Broadcasting, and that indicates in some manner that the Corporation
 for Public Broadcasting is partially funded from Federal tax revenues.
INDEPENDENT PRODUCTION SERVICE FUNDING
 SEC. 21. In making available funding pursuant to authorizations under this
 Act, any independent production service established under section 396(k)
 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 396(k)) shall, to the maximum
 extent practicable and consistent with the provisions of the Communications
 Act of 1934, provide such funding to eligible recipients and projects
 representing the widest possible geographic distribution, with the objective
 of providing funding to eligible recipients and projects in each State from
 which qualified proposals are received over the course of such authorizations.
EFFECTIVE DATE
 SEC. 22. Section 5(a) shall take effect on January 31, 1996. All other
 provisions of this Act are effective on its date of enactment.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States
President of the Senate.