 
--H.R.3012--
H.R.3012
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act by designating the White Clay Creek
in Delaware and Pennsylvania for study for potential addition to the National
Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `White Clay Creek Study Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 Congress finds that--
 (1) the White Clay Creek watershed is one of only a few relatively undisturbed
 areas remaining within one of the most densely populated areas in the country;
 (2) the Creek and several of its tributaries were placed on the Nationwide
 Rivers Inventory List by the National Park Service for initially meeting
 the criteria of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et seq.);
 (3) the concerns and interests of those people who live, work, and recreate
 within the watershed will be reflected in the development of a study and
 management plan by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to this Act; and
 (4) the conservation of the watershed, and its outstanding natural, cultural,
 and recreational values, is important to the residents within the watershed
 and to the residents within the surrounding suburban and urban areas of
 Delaware and Pennsylvania.
SEC. 3. STUDY RIVER DESIGNATION.
 Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a)) is
 amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(112) WHITE CLAY CREEK, DELAWARE AND PENNSYLVANIA- The headwaters of the
 river in Pennsylvania to its confluence with the Christina River in Delaware,
 including the East, West, and Middle Branches, Middle Run, Pike Creek, Mill
 Creek, and other main branches and tributaries as determined by the Secretary
 of the Interior (herein after referred to as the White Clay Creek).'.
SEC. 4. STUDY AND REPORT.
 Section 5(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)) is
 amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(11)(A) The study of the White Clay Creek in Delaware and Pennsylvania
 shall be completed and the report submitted not later than 3 years after
 the date of enactment of this paragraph.
 `(B) In carrying out the study, the Secretary of the Interior shall prepare
 a map of the White Clay Creek watershed in Delaware and Pennsylvania, and
 shall develop a recommended management plan for the White Clay Creek. The
 plan shall provide recommendations as to the protection and management of
 the White Clay Creek, including the role the State and local governments, and
 affected landowners, should play in the management of the White Clay Creek if
 it is designated as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System.
 `(C) The Secretary shall prepare the study, including the recommended
 management plan, in cooperation and consultation with appropriate State
 and local governments, and affected landowners.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.