 
--H.R.5763--
H.R.5763
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide equitable treatment to producers of sugarcane subject to
proportionate
shares.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EQUITABLE TREATMENT FOR PRODUCERS.
  Section 359f(b)(5) of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 (7
  U.S.C. 1359ff(b)(5)) (hereinafter referred to as `the 1938 Act'), is
  amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
  `(B) DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION- No producer shall be considered to have
  violated subparagraph (A) unless the processor of the sugarcane harvested
  by such producer from acreage in excess of the proportionate share of
  the farm markets an amount of sugar that exceeds the allocation of such
  processor for a fiscal year.
  `(C) CIVIL PENALTY- Any producer on a farm who violates subparagraph (A) by
  knowingly harvesting, or allowing to be harvested, an acreage of sugarcane
  in excess of the farm's proportionate share shall be liable to the Commodity
  Credit Corporation for a civil penalty equal to one and one-half times the
  United States market value of the quantity of sugar that is marketed by the
  processor of such sugarcane in excess of the allocation of such processor
  for the fiscal year. The Secretary shall prorate penalties imposed under
  this subparagraph in a fair and equitable manner among all the producers of
  sugarcane harvested from excess acreage that is acquired by such processor.'.
SEC. 2. ADJUSTMENT AFTER DISASTER.
  Section 359f(b) of the 1938 Act, as amended by section 1 of this Act, is
  further amended by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph:
  `(7) ADJUSTMENTS- Whenever the Secretary determines that, because of a
  natural disaster or other condition beyond the control of producers that
  adversely affects a crop of sugarcane subject to proportionate shares,
  the amount of sugarcane produced by producers subject to the proportionate
  shares will not be sufficient to enable processors in the State to meet
  the State's cane sugar allotment and provide a normal carryover inventory
  of sugar, the Secretary may uniformly allow producers to harvest an
  amount of sugarcane in excess of their proportionate share, or suspend
  proportionate shares entirely, as necessary to enable processors to meet
  the State allotment and provide a normal carryover inventory of sugar.'.
SEC. 3. CLARIFYING AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
  Section 359f(b) of the 1938 Act, as amended by sections 1 and 2 of this Act,
  is further amended--
  (a) in paragraph (1)(B), by--
  (1) striking `production of sugar' and inserting `production of sugarcane';
  and
  (2) inserting `of sugar' before the period at the end;
  (b) in the first sentence of paragraph (2), by--
  (1) striking `sugar processed from all crops by all processors' and inserting
  `sugarcane produced by producers in the area'; and
  (2) inserting `of sugar' after `provide a normal carryover inventory'; and
  (c) in the second sentence of paragraph (2), by inserting `paragraph (7)
  and' after `under'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.