 
--H.R.5686--
H.R.5686
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To make technical amendments to certain Federal Indian statutes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CORRECTION OF LAND DESCRIPTION WITH RESPECT TO THE GRAND RONDE
RESERVATION.
  Section 4(b) of Public Law 100-425 (25 U.S.C. 713f note) is amended by
  striking `SE 1/4 NE 1/4 ' in the fourth column of the description of the
  47th tract of land listed in such subsection and inserting the following:
  `SE 1/4 NE 1/4 ,E 1/2 SW 1/4 '.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF DEADLINE WITH RESPECT TO PONCA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
  Section 10(a)(3) of the Ponca Restoration Act (25 U.S.C. 983h(a)(3))
  is amended by striking `2' and inserting `3'.
SEC. 3. EXPENDITURE OF JUDGMENT FUNDS.
  (a) CROW TRIBE JUDGMENT FUND- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  or any distribution plan approved pursuant to the Indian Tribal Judgment
  Funds Use or Distribution Act (25 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.), the Secretary of the
  Interior may reprogram, in accordance with Crow Tribal Resolution 91-14, any
  and all remaining funds (principal and interest accounts) which were awarded
  in satisfaction of the judgments in Indian Claims Commission Docket No. 54
  (1961) and United States Claims Court Docket Nos. 796-71 and 797-71 (1981).
  (b) SHOSHONE-BANNOCK JUDGMENT FUND- Notwithstanding any other provision of
  law, or any distribution plan approved pursuant to the Indian Tribal Judgment
  Funds Use or Distribution Act (25 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.), the Secretary of
  the Interior may reprogram, in accordance with Shoshone-Bannock Tribal
  Resolution GNCL-91-0616, dated July 19, 1991, any and all remaining funds
  (principal and interest accounts) which were awarded in satisfaction of
  the judgment in Indian Claims Commission Docket No. 326-C-2 (1985).
SEC. 4. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY LANDS.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Mississippi Band of
  Choctaw Indians is authorized to sell, convey, and warrant to National
  Disposal Systems, Inc., without further approval of the United States,
  all the Band's interests in real property located in Noxubee County,
  Mississippi, that it acquired from National Disposal Systems, Inc.Nothing
  in this section is intended to authorize the Mississippi Band of Choctaw
  Indians to sell any of its lands that are held in trust by the United States.
SEC. 5. AMENDMENTS TO 99-YEAR LEASE STATUTE.
  The second sentence of subsection (a) of the first section of the Act of
  August 9, 1955 (25 U.S.C. 415) is amended by inserting immediately after
  `Oklahoma,' the following: `lands held in trust for the Pueblo of Santa
  Clara, lands held in trust for the Confederated Tribes of the Colville
  Reservation, lands held in trust for the Cahuilla Band of Indians of
  California,'.
SEC. 6. AMENDMENTS TO THE SAN CARLOS IRRIGATION PROJECT DIVESTITURE ACT
OF 1991.
  The San Carlos Indian Irrigation Project Divestiture Act of 1991 (Public
  Law 102-231; 105 Stat. 1722 et seq.) is amended by--
  (1) deleting in sections 4(a) and 10(b) the date `December 31, 1992'
  and inserting in lieu thereof the date `July 31, 1993';
  (2) inserting immediately before the period at the end of paragraph (1)
  of subsection 5(a) the phrase `and otherwise administer all customer
  accounts'; and
  (3) deleting `5(a)(2)' in the second sentence of section 6 and inserting
  in lieu thereof `5(a)(5)'.
SEC. 7. EXPENDITURE OF LEDGER ACCOUNT.
  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to expend not to exceed
  $1,300,000 of receipts, including interest, generated from the Wapato
  Indian Irrigation Project, currently available in the Bureau of Indian
  Affairs' Account for Operation and Maintenance, Indian Irrigation Systems
  (Appropriation Account 14X5240), which includes principal collected under the
  authority of the Act of February 14, 1920, for purposes of rehabilitation and
  betterment of the irrigation system at the Wapato Indian Irrigation Project,
  and to which the principal sums collected shall be credited in a manner which
  reduces the obligation for repayment of construction costs for those units
  of the Wapato Indian Irrigation Project from which such funds were generated.
SEC. 8. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO SOUTHERN ARIZONA WATER RIGHTS SETTLEMENT
ACT OF 1982.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Southern Arizona Water
  Rights Settlement Technical Amendments Act of 1992'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- The Southern Arizona Water Rights Settlement
  Act of 1982 is amended as follows:
  (1) in section 313(b)(1)(A), delete `paragraph (3)' and insert in lieu
  thereof `paragraph (2)';
  (2) in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of section 313(b)(1)(B), delete `(adjusted
  as provided in paragraph (2))' each place it appears and insert in lieu
  thereof `which has been';
  (3) in section 313(b)(1)(C), immediately before the period at the end
  thereof, insert a comma and the following: `including all interest which has
  accrued to the Fund since the Fund was established and all interest which
  accrued on contributions and appropriations to the Fund from October 12,
  1985, to the date of the enactment of the Southern Arizona Water Rights
  Settlement Technical Amendments Act of 1992';
  (4) in subsection (b), delete paragraph (2) and renumber paragraph (3)
  as paragraph (2);
  (5) amend section 313 by adding at the end thereof the following new
  subsection:
  `(g)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (e), if no funds
  contributed to the Cooperative Fund pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(B) (or
  accrued interest thereon) have been returned to any of the contributors,
  the Cooperative Fund shall not be terminated; except that, if the final
  judgment in the lawsuit referred to in section 307(a)(1)(C) does not
  dismiss all claims against the defendants named therein, the Cooperative
  Fund shall be terminated and the Secretary of the Treasury shall return
  all amounts contributed to the Fund (together with a ratable share of the
  remaining accrued interest) to the respective contributors.
  `(2)(A) If the share contributed to the Cooperative Fund by the United
  States has been deposited in the General Fund of the Treasury pursuant to
  subsection (e), there is authorized to be appropriated to the Cooperative
  Fund the amount so deposited in the General Fund of the Treasury, adjusted
  to include an amount representing the additional interest which would have
  been earned by the Cooperative Fund if that portion had not been deposited
  in the General Fund of the Treasury.
  `(B) If the final judgment in the lawsuit referred to in section 307(a)(1)(C)
  does not dismiss all claims against the defendants named therein, the
  share of the Cooperative Fund contributed by the United States shall be
  deposited in the General Fund of the Treasury.';
  (6) in section 304(e)(2), delete `, as long as such water is used for
  irrigation of Indian lands';
  (7) in section 306(c), by adding at the end thereof the following new
  paragraph:
  `(3) For the purpose of determining allocation and repayment of costs of
  the Central Arizona Project as provided in article 9.3 of contract numbered
  14-06-W-245 between the United States of America and the Central Arizona
  Water Conservation District, dated December 1, 1988, and any amendment or
  revision thereof, the costs associated with the delivery of Central Arizona
  Project water under the sales, exchanges or temporary dispositions herein
  authorized shall be nonreimbursable, and such costs shall be excluded from
  such District's repayment obligation.'; and
  (8) in sections 313(c)(1)(A), 304(c)(1) and 305(d)(1), immediately after
  `10 years' each place it appears, insert `and 9 months'.
SEC. 9. AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS ACT OF 1974.
  (a) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR NATIVE AMERICAN PROJECTS- The second
  sentence of section 803(a) of the Native American Programs Act of 1974
  (42 U.S.C. 2991b(a)) is amended by striking `, subject to the availability
  of funds appropriated under the authority of section 816(c),'.
  (b)  DEFINITION- Section 815 of the Native American Programs Act of 1974
  (42 U.S.C. 2992c) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (4) by striking `; and' at the end,
  (2) in paragraph (5) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and', and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(6) the term `Native American Pacific Islander' means an individual who is
  indigenous to a United States territory or possession located in the Pacific
  Ocean, and includes such individual while residing in the United States.'.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 816 of the Native American
  Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2992d) is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (c), and
  (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
SEC. 10. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO AK-CHIN WATER USE ACT OF 1984.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Ak-Chin Water Use
  Amendments Act of 1992'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF WATER- Section 2(j) of the Act of October 19,
  1984 (Public Law 98-530; 98 Stat. 2698) is amended to read as follows:
  `(j) The Ak-Chin Indian Community (hereafter in this Act referred to as the
  `Community') shall have the right to devote the permanent water supply
  provided for by this Act to any use, including agricultural, municipal,
  industrial, commercial, mining, recreational or other beneficial use, in
  the areas initially designated as the Pinal, Phoenix and Tucson Active
  Management Areas pursuant to the Arizona Groundwater Management Act of
  1980, laws 1980, fourth special session, chapter 1. The community is
  authorized to lease or enter into an option to lease, extend leases,
  exchange or temporarily dispose of water to which it is entitled for
  beneficial use in the areas initially designated as the Pinal, Phoenix
  and Tucson Active Management Areas pursuant to the Arizona Groundwater
  Management Act of 1980, laws 1980, fourth special session, chapter 1:
  Provided, That the term of any such lease shall not exceed 100 years and
  the Community may not permanently alienate any water right. In the event
  the Community leases, extends leases, exchanges or temporarily disposes of
  water, such action shall be pursuant to a contract that has been accepted
  and ratified by a resolution of the Ak-Chin Indian Community Council and
  approved and executed by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 11. AMENDMENT.
  The Act entitled `An Act to authorize certain appropriations for the
  territories of the United States, to amend certain Acts relating thereto,
  and for other purposes', approved October 15, 1977 (91 Stat. 1159), is
  amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
`SEC. 502. GENERAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
  `(a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Indian Environmental
  General Assistance Program Act of 1992'.
  `(b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this section are to--
  `(1) provide general assistance grants to Indian tribal governments
  and intertribal consortia to build capacity to administer environmental
  regulatory programs that may be delegated by the Environmental Protection
  Agency on Indian lands; and
  `(2) provide technical assistance from the Environmental Protection Agency
  to Indian tribal governments and intertribal consortia in the development
  of multimedia programs to address environmental issues on Indian lands.
  `(c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
  `(1) The term `Indian tribal government' means any Indian tribe, band,
  nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native
  village or regional or village corporation (as defined in, or established
  pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.A. 1601, et
  seq.)), which is recognized as eligible for the special services provided
  by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
  `(2) The term `intertribal consortia' or `intertribal consortium' means
  a partnership between two or more Indian tribal governments authorized by
  the governing bodies of those tribes to apply for and receive assistance
  pursuant to this section.
  `(3) The term `Administrator' means the Administrator of the Environmental
  Protection Agency.
  `(d) GENERAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM- (1) The Administrator of the Environmental
  Protection Agency shall establish an Indian Environmental General Assistance
  Program that provides grants to eligible Indian tribal governments or
  intertribal consortia to cover the costs of planning, developing, and
  establishing environmental protection programs on Indian lands.
  `(2) Each grant awarded for general assistance under this subsection for a
  fiscal year shall be no less than $75,000, and no single grant may be awarded
  to an Indian tribal government or intertribal consortium for more than 10
  percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (h) of this section.
  `(3) The term of any general assistance award made under this subsection
  may exceed one year. Any awards made pursuant to this section shall remain
  available until expended. An Indian tribal government or intertribal
  consortium may receive a general assistance grant for a period of up to
  four years in each specific media area.
  `(e) NO REDUCTION IN AMOUNTS- In no case shall the award of a general
  assistance grant to an Indian tribal government or intertribal consortium
  under this section result in a reduction of Environmental Protection
  Agency grants for environmental programs to that tribal government
  or consortium. Nothing in this section shall preclude an Indian tribal
  government or intertribal consortium from receiving individual media grants
  or cooperative agreements. Funds provided by the Environmental Protection
  Agency through the general assistance program shall be used by an Indian
  tribal government or intertribal consortium to supplement other funds
  provided by the Environmental Protection Agency through individual media
  grants or cooperative agreements.
  `(f) EXPENDITURE OF GENERAL ASSISTANCE- Any general assistance under
  this section shall be expended for the purpose of planning, developing,
  and establishing the capability to implement programs administered
  by the Environmental Protection Agency and specified in the assistance
  agreement. Purposes and programs authorized under this section shall include
  the development and implementation of solid and hazardous waste programs
  for Indian lands. An Indian tribal government or intertribal consortium
  receiving general assistance pursuant to this section shall utilize such
  funds for programs and purposes to be carried out in accordance with the
  terms of the assistance agreement.
  `(g) PROCEDURES- (1) Within 12 months following the date of the enactment
  of this section, the Administrator shall promulgate regulations establishing
  procedures under which an Indian tribal government or intertribal consortium
  may apply for general assistance grants under this section.
  `(2) The Administrator shall publish regulations issued pursuant to this
  section in the Federal Register.
  `(3) The Administrator shall establish procedures for accounting, auditing,
  evaluating, and reviewing any programs or activities funded in whole or
  in part for a general assistance grant under this section.
  `(h) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
  the provisions of this section, $15,000,000 for each of the fiscal years
  1993 and 1994.'.
SEC. 12. ENROLLMENT AS NATIVES.
  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the Interior
  is authorized and directed to enroll the following-named individuals as
  Natives under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (Public Law 92-203):
  Yvonne LeCornu Salazar and Andres Manuel Salazar. Each individual is entitled
  to receive 100 shares of stock in Shaan-Seet, Inc. and such other benefits
  as the board of directors of that corporation may approve. No individual
  enrolled pursuant to this Act shall be entitled to share in any dividends
  or Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act distributions made by the United
  States or Shaan-Seet, Inc. prior to the individual's enrollment. Nor shall
  this Act alter said individual's rights to receive dividends or Alaska
  Native Claims Settlement Act distributions made by Sealaska Corporation
  prior to the individual's enrollment in Shaan-Seet. Enrollment of these
  individuals shall not alter the entitlement to or distribution of land to
  any corporation under the terms of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act.
SEC. 13. TRANSFER OF BUREAU OF INDIAN AFFAIRS' ADMINISTRATIVE SITE IN BETHEL,
ALASKA TO THE YUKON KUSKOKWIM HEALTH CORPORATION.
  (a) CONVEYANCE- To the extent consistent with this section and applicable
  Federal and State environmental laws, the Secretary of the Interior,
  notwithstanding section 1302(h) of the Alaska National Interest Lands
  Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3192(h)), shall convey, in fee, the buildings
  of the former Bureau of Indian Affairs Bethel Agency, Bethel, Alaska,
  and lands necessary for the use of these buildings, but not to exceed
  27 acres of the Agency site, to the Yukon Kuskokwim Health Corporation
  (hereafter referred to as the `Corporation').  Such conveyance shall be
  made on terms mutually agreed on between the Secretary of the Interior
  and the Corporation. The Secretary may require that the Corporation,
  as exclusive consideration for this conveyance, enter into an agreement
  under which the Corporation agrees to indemnify the United States Fish
  and Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs for any liability
  arising out of the operation and maintenance of any response at the property
  concerning asbestos.  The conveyance required by this section shall be made,
  subject to subsection (b)(2), prior to September 30, 1993.
  (b) ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE- Prior to the conveyance of the property to the
  Corporation pursuant to subsection (a), for responses that are necessary
  under applicable Federal and State laws to protect human health and the
  environment with respect to any hazardous substance or hazardous waste
  remaining on the property, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
  of the Air Force shall--
  (1) complete and equally share the cost of such response, or
  (2) grant and equally share the cost of such grant to the Corporation an
  amount equal to the cost of such response, except that such grant shall
  be used to complete such response prior to the conveyance of the property.
  (c) Notwithstanding any other Federal law, except with respect to liability
  arising from the operation and maintenance of the property, the United
  States Fish and Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs shall
  not be liable under any Federal law for any additional response necessary
  for asbestos at the property following its conveyance to the Corporation
  pursuant to the authority of subsection (a).  Nothing in this section shall
  affect any liability of any person other than the United States Fish and
  Wildlife Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
  (d) EASEMENT- The conveyance under this section shall reserve an easement
  for access to adjacent areas of the Yukon Delta National Wildlife Refuge,
  if determined necessary by the Secretary.
  (e) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
  (1) The terms `response', `hazardous substance', `person', and `environment'
  as used herein shall have the meaning of such terms as provided in the
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
  (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.).
  (2) The term `hazardous waste' shall have the meaning of such term as
  provided in the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.).
SEC. 14. REGULATION OF CLASS III GAMING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding section 11(d)(1) of the Indian Gaming
  Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2710(d)(1), during the six-month period beginning
  on the date of the enactment of this Act, any class III gaming activity
  conducted on Indian lands in the State of Montana shall be lawful if such
  gaming activity--
  (1) is conducted in accordance with State law made applicable by the Indian
  Gaming Regulatory Act; and
  (2) was owned or being conducted on May 1, 1988.
  (b) INAPPLICABILITY OF ACT OF JANUARY 2, 1951- During the six-month period
  specified in subsection (a), the provisions of section 5 of the Act of
  January 2, 1951 (15 U.S.C. 1175), shall not apply to any gaming activity
  described in such subsection which meets the requirements of paragraphs
  (1) and (2) of such subsection.
SEC. 15. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this section, the terms `Indian lands' and `class III
  gaming' have the meaning given such terms in section 4 of the Indian Gaming
  Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703).
SEC. 16. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
  Section 4(7)(E) of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2703(7)(E))
  is amended by striking `or Montana'.
SEC. 17. SETTLEMENT OF LAWSUIT.
  The Act of October 25, 1972 (86 Stat. 1168), is amended by adding at the
  end thereof the following new section:
`SEC. 306. AUTHORITY TO SETTLE ACTION.
  `Notwithstanding any provision of this Act or any other provision of law,
  the Attorney General is authorized to negotiate and settle any action that
  may be or has been brought to contest the constitutionality or validity
  under law of the distribution to all other Sisseton and Wahpeton Sioux
  provided for in section 202 of this Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.