 
--H.R.5095--
H.R.5095
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1993 for intelligence and
intelligence-related activities of the United States Government and the
Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, to revise and
restate the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain
Employees, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Intelligence Authorization
  Act for Fiscal Year 1993'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Personnel ceiling adjustments.
Sec. 104. Community Management Staff.
TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by law.
Sec. 302. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 303. Sense of Congress regarding disclosure of annual intelligence budget.
Sec. 304. Technical amendments.
Sec. 305. Airborne reconnaissance.
TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
Sec. 401. Postemployment assistance for certain DIA employees.
Sec. 402. Inclusion of Senior Executive Service positions in civilian
intelligence personnel system.
Sec. 403. Notice to congressional intelligence committees of Department
of Defense real property transactions and construction projects involving
intelligence agencies.
Sec. 404. Amendments to National Security Education Act of 1991.
Sec. 405. Pay and allowances for employees of the National Security Agency.
Sec. 406. Exemption for National Reconnaissance Office from any requirement
for disclosure of personnel information.
TITLE V--FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Sec. 501. Temporary FBI authority to accept bequests or devises.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Sec. 601. Authority of Inspector General to receive complaints and information
from any person.
TITLE VII--INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION
Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Participation of the Director of Central Intelligence in the
National Security Council.
Sec. 704. Appointment of the Director and Deputy Director of Central
Intelligence.
Sec. 705. Responsibilities and authorities of the Director of Central
Intelligence.
Sec. 706. Responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense pertaining to the
National Foreign Intelligence Program.
TITLE VIII--RESTATEMENT OF CIARDS STATUTE
Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Restatement of Act.
Sec. 803. Conforming amendments.
Sec. 804. Savings provisions.
Sec. 805. Effective date.
TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 1993 for
  the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities of
  the following elements of the United States Government:
  (1) The Central Intelligence Agency.
  (2) The Department of Defense.
  (3) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
  (4) The National Security Agency.
  (5) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the
  Department of the Air Force.
  (6) The Department of State.
  (7) The Department of the Treasury.
  (8) The Department of Energy.
  (9) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
  (10) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
  (a) SPECIFICATIONS OF AMOUNTS AND PERSONNEL CEILINGS- The amounts authorized
  to be appropriated under section 101, and the authorized personnel
  ceilings as of September 30, 1993, for the conduct of the intelligence and
  intelligence-related activities of the elements listed in such section,
  are those specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared
  by the committee of conference to accompany the conference report on the
  bill H.R. 5095 of the One Hundred Second Congress.
  (b) AVAILABILITY OF CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS- The Schedule of
  Authorizations shall be made available to the Committees on Appropriations of
  the Senate and House of Representatives and to the President. The President
  shall provide for suitable distribution of the Schedule, or of appropriate
  portions of the Schedule, within the executive branch.
SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.
  (a) AUTHORITY FOR ADJUSTMENTS- The Director of Central Intelligence
  may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the numbers
  authorized for fiscal year 1993 under section 102 of this Act when the
  Director determines that such action is necessary to the performance
  of important intelligence functions, except that such number may not,
  for any element of the Intelligence Community, exceed two percent of the
  number of civilian personnel authorized under such section for such element.
  (b) NOTICE TO INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES- The Director of Central Intelligence
  shall promptly notify the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
  House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the
  Senate whenever the Director exercises the authority granted by this section.
SEC. 104. COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT STAFF.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  for the Community Management Staff of the Director of Central Intelligence
  for fiscal year 1993 the sum of $86,900,000.
  (b) AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL LEVELS- The Community Management Staff of the
  Director of Central Intelligence is authorized 161 full-time personnel as
  of September 30, 1993. Such personnel may be permanent employees of the
  Community Management Staff or personnel detailed from other elements of
  the United States Government.
  (c) REIMBURSEMENT- During fiscal year 1993, any officer or employee of
  the United States or a member of the Armed Forces who is detailed to
  the Community Management Staff from another element of the United States
  Government shall be detailed on a reimbursable basis, except that any such
  officer, employee, or member may be detailed on a nonreimbursable basis for
  a period of less than one year for the performance of temporary functions
  as required by the Director of Central Intelligence.
  (d) COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT STAFF ADMINISTERED IN SAME MANNER AS CENTRAL
  INTELLIGENCE AGENCY- During fiscal year 1993, activities and personnel
  of the Community Management Staff shall be subject to the provisions of
  the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) and the Central
  Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 403a et seq.) in the same manner
  as activities and personnel of the Central Intelligence Agency.
TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 1993 the sum of $168,900,000.
TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY LAW.
  Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, and
  other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such additional or
  supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in such compensation
  or benefits authorized by law.
SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
  The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed to
  constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity which
  is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or laws of the United States.
SEC. 303. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING DISCLOSURE OF ANNUAL INTELLIGENCE BUDGET.
  It is the sense of Congress that, beginning in 1993, and in each year
  thereafter, the aggregate amount requested and authorized for, and spent
  on, intelligence and intelligence-related activities should be disclosed
  to the public in an appropriate manner.
SEC. 304. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  (a) NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY ACT OF 1959- The National Security Agency
  Act of 1959 is amended by redesignating the second section 17 (added by
  section 405 of Public Law 102-183) as section 18.
  (b) PUBLIC LAW 102-88- Effective as of August 14, 1991, section 305(a)(3)
  of Public Law 102-88 (105 Stat. 432) is amended by striking out `in the
  last sentence' and inserting in lieu thereof `in the penultimate sentence'.
SEC. 305. AIRBORNE RECONNAISSANCE.
  (a) Of the amount authorized to be appropriated by section 101 for
  reconnaissance programs, funds are authorized for an advanced airborne
  reconnaissance system.
  (b) The amount authorized in subsection (a) is the amount equal to one-third
  of the amount authorized for a similar activity in the National Foreign
  Intelligence Program for fiscal year 1992 by the Intelligence Authorization
  Act for Fiscal Year 1992 (Public Law 102-183).
TITLE IV--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
SEC. 401. POSTEMPLOYMENT ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN DIA EMPLOYEES.
  (a) ASSISTANCE AUTHORIZED- Subsection (e) of section 1604 of title 10, United
  States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of
  Defense may use appropriated funds to assist employees who have been in
  sensitive positions in the Defense Intelligence Agency and who are found to
  be ineligible for continued access to Sensitive Compartmented Information
  and employment with the Defense Intelligence Agency, or whose employment
  with the Defense Intelligence Agency has been terminated--
  `(i) in finding and qualifying for subsequent employment;
  `(ii) in receiving treatment of medical or psychological disabilities; and
  `(iii) in providing necessary financial support during periods of
  unemployment.
  `(B) Assistance may be provided under subparagraph (A) only if the
  Secretary determines that such assistance is essential to maintain the
  judgment and emotional stability of such employee and avoid circumstances
  that might lead to the unlawful disclosure of classified information to
  which such employee had access. Assistance provided under this paragraph
  for an employee shall not be provided any longer than five years after
  the termination of the employment of the employee.
  `(C) The Secretary shall report annually to the Committees on Appropriations
  of the Senate and House of Representatives, the Select Committee
  on Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the House of Representatives with respect to any expenditure
  made pursuant to this paragraph.'.
  (b) FIRST ANNUAL REPORT- The first report under paragraph (4) of section
  1604(e) of title 10, United States Code, shall be submitted not later than
  12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 402. INCLUSION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITIONS IN CIVILIAN
INTELLIGENCE PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
  (a) INCLUSION OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE POSITIONS- Section 1590 of title
  10, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
  (A) by inserting `, including positions in the Senior Executive Service,'
  after `positions'; and
  (B) by inserting after `such departments' the following: `, except that
  the total number of positions in the Senior Executive Service established
  pursuant to this section may not exceed one-half of one percent of the
  total number of all civilian intelligence positions established pursuant
  to this section;';
  (2) in subsection (b), by inserting after the first sentence the following
  new sentence: `The Secretary shall also fix rates of pay for positions in
  the Senior Executive Service established pursuant to this section that are
  not in excess of the maximum rate or less than the minimum rate of basic
  pay established pursuant to section 5382 of title 5.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(f) With regard to any position in the Senior Executive Service which may
  be established pursuant to this section, the Secretary of Defense shall
  prescribe regulations to implement this section which are consistent
  with the requirements set forth in sections 3131, 3132(a)(2), 3393a,
  3396(c), 3592, 3595(a), 5384, and 6304, subsections (a), (b), and (c)
  of section 7543 (except that any hearing or appeal to which a member of
  the Senior Executive Service is entitled shall be held or decided pursuant
  to regulations issued by the Secretary), and subchapter II of chapter 43
  of title 5. The Secretary of Defense shall also prescribe, to the extent
  practicable, regulations to implement such other provisions of title 5 as
  apply to members of the Senior Executive Service or to individuals applying
  for positions in the Senior Executive Service.
  `(g) The President, based on the recommendations of the Secretary of Defense,
  may award a rank referred to in section 4507 of title 5 to members of
  the Senior Executive Service whose positions may be established pursuant
  to this section. The awarding of such a rank shall be made in a manner
  consistent with the provisions of that section.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 3132(a)(1)(B) of title 5, United States
  Code, is amended by inserting after `National Security Agency' the following:
  `, Department of Defense intelligence activities the civilian employees
  of which are subject to section 1590 of title 10,'.
SEC. 403. NOTICE TO CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES OF DEPARTMENT
OF DEFENSE REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS AND CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS INVOLVING
INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES.
  (a) REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS- (1) Section 2662 of title 10, United States
  Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f) Whenever a transaction covered by this section is made by or on behalf
  of an intelligence component of the Department of Defense or involves real
  property used by such a component, any report under this section with
  respect to the transaction that is submitted to the Committees on Armed
  Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives shall be submitted
  concurrently to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House
  of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.'.
  (2)(A) The heading of such section is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 2662. Real property transactions: reports to congressional committees'.
  (B) The item relating to such section in the table of sections at the
  beginning of chapter 159 of such title is amended to read as follows:
`2662. Real property transactions: reports to congressional committees.'.
  (b) CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS- Section 2801(c)(4) of such title is amended by
  inserting before the period at the end the following: `and, with respect
  to any project to be carried out by, or for the use of, an intelligence
  component of the Department of Defense, the Permanent Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the Senate'.
SEC. 404. AMENDMENTS TO NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION ACT OF 1991.
  (a) REDESIGNATION OF ACT- Section 801(a) of the National Security Education
  Act of 1991 (title VIII of Public Law 102-183; 50 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(a) SHORT TITLE- This title may be cited as the `David L. Boren National
  Security Education Act of 1991'.'.
  (b) PROGRAM REVISIONS- Section 802(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C.  1902(a))--
  (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting `or equivalent term,' after `at
  least one academic semester';
  (2) in paragraph (1)(B)(i), by striking out `in the United States' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `as part of a graduate degree program of a United
  States institution of higher education'; and
  (3) in paragraph (4), by adding at the end the following new sentence:
  `In addition, the Secretary may enter into personal service contracts for
  periods up to one year for program administration, except that not more
  than 10 such contracts may be in effect at any one time.'.
  (c) REPEAL OF REQUIRED ENTITY TO ADMINISTER PROGRAM- Section 802 of such
  Act is further amended--
  (1) by striking out subsection (e); and
  (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
  (d) NATIONAL SECURITY EDUCATION BOARD- Section 803(b) of such Act (50
  U.S.C. 1903(b)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8);
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph (7):
  `(7) The Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities.'; and
  (3) in paragraph (8) (as so redesignated)--
  (A) by striking out `Four individuals' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `Six individuals'; and
  (B) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `and who may
  not be officers or employees of the Federal Government'.
  (e) FUND ASSETS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT- Section 804(c) of such Act (50
  U.S.C. 1904(c)) is amended by striking out `obligation' at the end of the
  first sentence and inserting in lieu thereof `expenditure'.
  (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  for fiscal year 1993 to the National Security Education Trust Fund
  established by section 804 of the David L. Boren National Security Education
  Act of 1991 (50 U.S.C. 1904) the sum of $30,000,000.
SEC. 405. PAY AND ALLOWANCES FOR EMPLOYEES OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.
  Section 2 of the National Security Agency Act of 1959 (Public Law 86-36;
  50 U.S.C. 402 note) is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 2. (a) The Secretary of Defense (or his designee) is authorized to
  establish such positions, and to appoint thereto, without regard to the
  civil service laws, such officers and employees, in the National Security
  Agency, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of such agency. The
  rates of basic pay for such positions shall be fixed by the Secretary of
  Defense (or his designee for this purpose) in relation to the rates of
  basic pay provided for in subpart D of part III of title 5, United States
  Code, for positions subject to such title which have corresponding levels
  of duties and responsibilities. Except as otherwise provided by law, no
  officer or employee of the National Security Agency shall be paid basic
  pay at a rate in excess of the maximum rate payable under section 5376 of
  such title and not more than 70 such officers and employees shall be paid
  within the range of rates authorized in section 5376 of such title.
  `(b) The Secretary of Defense (or his designee) may provide officers and
  employees of the National Security Agency other compensation, benefits,
  incentives, and allowances which are consistent with, and do not exceed
  the levels authorized for, such compensation, benefits, incentives, or
  allowances by title 5, United States Code.'.
SEC. 406. EXEMPTION FOR NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE FROM ANY REQUIREMENT
FOR DISCLOSURE OF PERSONNEL INFORMATION.
  (a) EXEMPTION FROM DISCLOSURE- Except as required by the President or as
  provided in subsection (b), nothing in this Act or any other provision of
  law shall be construed to require the disclosure of the name, title, or
  salary of any person employed by, or assigned or detailed to, the National
  Reconnaissance Office or the disclosure of the number of such persons.
  (b) PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO CONGRESS- Subsection (a) does not apply
  with respect to the provision of information to Congress.
TITLE V--FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 501. TEMPORARY FBI AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT BEQUESTS OR DEVISES.
  (a) ACCEPTANCE OF BEQUESTS- During fiscal year 1993, the Director of the
  Federal Bureau of Investigation may accept, on behalf of the Bureau, any
  bequest or devise made by a citizen of the United States, if such bequest
  or devise is used only--
  (1) to fund and administer, in accordance with regulations prescribed
  by the Director, a scholarship program for the benefit of the immediate
  families of Federal law enforcement officers slain or permanently disabled
  in the line of duty; and
  (2) to pay all necessary expenses in connection with the acceptance of
  such bequest or devise.
  (b) AUTHORITY TO USE FUNDS- (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  proceeds from the sale of property accepted as a bequest or devise by the
  Director pursuant to subsection (a) shall be maintained in an interest
  bearing account and shall remain available for disbursement for purposes
  of this section until such funds are expended.
  (2) The authority of paragraph (1) may be exercised only to such extent
  and in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts.
  (c) REGULATIONS REQUIRED- Not later than 90 days after accepting any bequest
  or devise pursuant to this section, the Director shall prescribe regulations
  to implement the provisions of this section in a fair, equitable manner,
  and shall make copies of such regulations available to all Federal law
  enforcement agencies. Copies of such regulations shall also be provided
  the Judiciary Committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SEC. 601. AUTHORITY OF CIA INSPECTOR GENERAL TO RECEIVE COMPLAINTS AND
INFORMATION FROM ANY PERSON.
  Section 17(e)(3) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50
  U.S.C. 403q) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `an employee of the Agency' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `any person'; and
  (2) by inserting `from an employee of the Agency' after `received'.
TITLE VII--INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION
SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Intelligence Organization Act of 1992'.
SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.
  The National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.) is amended by
  inserting after section 2 the following new section:
`DEFINITIONS
  `SEC. 3. As used in this Act:
  `(1) The term `intelligence' includes foreign intelligence and
  counterintelligence.
  `(2) The term `foreign intelligence' means information relating to the
  capabilities, intentions, or activities of foreign governments or elements
  thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons.
  `(3) The term `counterintelligence' means information gathered and
  activities conducted to protect against espionage, other intelligence
  activities, sabotage, or assassinations conducted by or on behalf of foreign
  governments or elements thereof, foreign organizations, or foreign persons,
  or international terrorist activities.
  `(4) The term `intelligence community' includes--
  `(A) the Office of the Director of Central Intelligence, which shall
  include the Office of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, the
  National Intelligence Council (as provided for in section 105(b)(3)),
  and such other offices as the Director may designate;
  `(B) the Central Intelligence Agency;
  `(C) the National Security Agency;
  `(D) the Defense Intelligence Agency;
  `(E) the central imagery authority within the Department of Defense;
  `(F) the National Reconnaissance Office;
  `(G) other offices within the Department of Defense for the collection of
  specialized national intelligence through reconnaissance programs;
  `(H) the intelligence elements of the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the
  Marine Corps, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of the
  Treasury, and the Department of Energy;
  `(I) the Bureau of Intelligence and Research of the Department of State; and
  `(J) such other elements of any other department or agency as may be
  designated by the President, or designated jointly by the Director of
  Central Intelligence and the head of the department or agency concerned,
  as an element of the intelligence community.
  `(5) The terms `national intelligence' and `intelligence related to the
  national security'--
  `(A) each refer to intelligence which pertains to the interests of more
  than one department or agency of the Government; and
  `(B) do not refer to counterintelligence or law enforcement activities
  conducted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation except to the extent
  provided for in procedures agreed to by the Director of Central Intelligence
  and the Attorney General, or otherwise as expressly provided for in
  this title.
  `(6) The term `National Foreign Intelligence Program' refers to all programs,
  projects, and activities of the intelligence community, as well as any other
  programs of the intelligence community designated jointly by the Director
  of Central Intelligence and the head of a United States department or
  agency or by the President. Such term does not include programs, projects,
  or activities of the military departments to acquire intelligence solely
  for the planning and conduct of tactical military operations by United
  States Armed Forces.'.
SEC. 703. PARTICIPATION OF THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE IN THE
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL.
  Section 101 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 402) is amended
  by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
  `(h) The Director of Central Intelligence (or, in the Director's absence,
  the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence) may, in the performance of
  the Director's duties under this Act and subject to the direction of the
  President, attend and participate in meetings of the National Security
  Council.'.
SEC. 704. APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE.
  Section 102 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403(a))
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)';
  (2) in the first sentence of subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking out `under the National Security Council'; and
  (B) by striking out `with a Director' and all that follows through
  `disability'; and
  (3) by striking out the second sentence of subsection (a) and subsections
  (b) through (f) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `(2) There shall be a Director of Central Intelligence who shall be
  appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the
  Senate. The Director shall--
  `(A) serve as head of the United States intelligence community;
  `(B) act as the principal adviser to the President for intelligence matters
  related to the national security; and
  `(C) serve as head of the Central Intelligence Agency.
  `(b) To assist the Director of Central Intelligence in carrying out the
  Director's responsibilities under this Act, there shall be a Deputy Director
  of Central Intelligence, who shall be appointed by the President, by and
  with the advice and consent of the Senate, who shall act for, and exercise
  the powers of, the Director during the Director's absence or disability.
  `(c)(1) The Director or Deputy Director of Central Intelligence may be
  appointed from among the commissioned officers of the Armed Forces, or
  from civilian life, but at no time shall both positions be simultaneously
  occupied by commissioned officers of the Armed Forces, whether in an active
  or retired status.
  `(2) It is the sense of the Congress that under ordinary circumstances,
  it is desirable that either the Director or the Deputy Director be a
  commissioned officer of the Armed Forces or that either such appointee
  otherwise have, by training or experience, an appreciation of military
  intelligence activities and requirements.
  `(3)(A) A commissioned officer of the Armed Forces appointed pursuant to
  paragraph (2) or (3), while serving in such position--
  `(i) shall not be subject to supervision or control by the Secretary of
  Defense or by any officer or employee of the Department of Defense;
  `(ii) shall not exercise, by reason of the officer's status as a commissioned
  officer, any supervision or control with respect to any of the military
  or civilian personnel of the Department of Defense except as otherwise
  authorized by law; and
  `(iii) shall not be counted against the numbers and percentages of
  commissioned officers of the rank and grade of such officer authorized
  for the military department of which such officer is a member.
  `(B) Except as provided in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (A), the
  appointment of a commissioned officer of the Armed Forces pursuant to
  paragraph (2) or (3) shall in no way affect the status, position, rank,
  or grade of such officer in the Armed Forces, or any emolument, perquisite,
  right, privilege, or benefit incident to or arising out of any such status,
  position, rank, or grade.
  `(C) A commissioned officer of the Armed Forces appointed pursuant to
  subsection (a) or (b), while serving in such position, shall continue to
  receive military pay and allowances (including retired pay) payable to
  a commissioned officer of the officer's grade and length of service for
  which the appropriate military department shall be reimbursed from funds
  available to the Director of Central Intelligence.
  `(d) The Office of the Director of Central Intelligence shall, for
  administrative purposes, be within the Central Intelligence Agency.'.
SEC. 705. RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et
  seq.) is amended--
  (1) by striking out section 102a;
  (2) by redesignating sections 103 and 104 as sections 107 and 108,
  respectively; and
  (3) by inserting after section 102, as amended by section 721, the following
  new sections:
`RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
  `SEC. 103. (a) PROVISION OF INTELLIGENCE- (1) Under the direction of the
  National Security Council, the Director of Central Intelligence shall be
  responsible for providing national intelligence--
  `(A) to the President;
  `(B) to the heads of departments and agencies of the executive branch;
  `(C) to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and senior military
  commanders; and
  `(D) where appropriate, to the Senate and House of Representatives and
  the committees thereof.
  `(2) Such national intelligence should be timely, objective, independent
  of political considerations, and based upon all sources available to the
  intelligence community.
  `(b) NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE COUNCIL- (1)(A) There is established within the
  Office of the Director of Central Intelligence the National Intelligence
  Council (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Council'). The
  Council shall be composed of senior analysts within the intelligence
  community and substantive experts from the public and private sector,
  who shall be appointed by, report to, and serve at the pleasure of, the
  Director of Central Intelligence.
  `(B) The Director shall prescribe appropriate security requirements for
  personnel appointed from the private sector as a condition of service on
  the Council to ensure the protection of intelligence sources and methods
  while avoiding, wherever possible, unduly intrusive requirements which
  the Director considers to be unnecessary for this purpose.
  `(2) The Council shall--
  `(A) produce national intelligence estimates for the Government, including,
  whenever the Council considers appropriate, alternative views held by
  elements of the intelligence community; and
  `(B) otherwise assist the Director in carrying out the responsibilities
  described in subsection (a).
  `(3) Within their respective areas of expertise and under the direction
  of the Director, the members of the Council shall constitute the senior
  intelligence advisers of the intelligence community for purposes of
  representing the views of the intelligence community within the Government.
  `(4) The Director shall make available to the Council such staff as may be
  necessary to permit the Council to carry out its responsibilities under
  this subsection and shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the
  Council and its staff satisfy the needs of policymaking officials and
  other consumers of intelligence.
  `(5) The heads of elements within the intelligence community shall, as
  appropriate, furnish such support to the Council, including the preparation
  of intelligence analyses, as may be required by the Director.
  `(c) HEAD OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY- In the Director's capacity as
  head of the intelligence community, the Director shall--
  `(1) develop and present to the President an annual budget for the National
  Foreign Intelligence Program of the United States;
  `(2) establish the requirements and priorities to govern the collection
  of national intelligence by elements of the intelligence community;
  `(3) promote and evaluate the utility of national intelligence to consumers
  within the Government;
  `(4) eliminate waste and unnecessary duplication within the intelligence
  community;
  `(5) protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure;
  and
  `(6) perform such other functions as the President or the National Security
  Council may direct.
  `(d) HEAD OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY- In the Director's capacity
  as head of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Director shall--
  `(1) collect intelligence through human sources and by other appropriate
  means, except that the Agency shall have no police, subpoena, or law
  enforcement powers or internal security functions;
  `(2) provide overall direction for the collection of national intelligence
  through human sources by elements of the intelligence community authorized
  to undertake such collection and, in coordination with other agencies of
  the Government which are authorized to undertake such collection, ensure
  that the most effective use is made of resources and that the risks to
  the United States and those involved in such collection are minimized;
  `(3) correlate and evaluate intelligence related to the national security
  and providing appropriate dissemination of such intelligence;
  `(4) perform such additional services as are of common concern to the
  elements of the intelligence community, which services the Director of
  Central Intelligence determines can be more efficiently accomplished
  centrally; and
  `(5) perform such other functions and duties related to intelligence
  affecting the national security as the President or the National Security
  Council may direct.
`AUTHORITIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
  `SEC. 104. (a) ACCESS TO INTELLIGENCE- To the extent recommended by the
  National Security Council and approved by the President, the Director of
  Central Intelligence shall have access to all intelligence related to the
  national security which is collected by any department, agency, or other
  entity of the United States.
  `(b) APPROVAL OF BUDGETS- The Director of Central Intelligence shall provide
  guidance to elements of the intelligence community for the preparation
  of their annual budgets and shall approve such budgets before their
  incorporation in the National Foreign Intelligence Program.
  `(c) ROLE OF DCI IN REPROGRAMMING- No funds made available under the
  National Foreign Intelligence Program may be reprogrammed by any element
  of the intelligence community without the prior approval of the Director
  of Central Intelligence except in accordance with procedures issued by
  the Director.
  `(d) TRANSFER OF FUNDS OR PERSONNEL WITHIN THE NATIONAL FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
  PROGRAM- (1) In addition to any other authorities available under law for
  such purposes, the Director of Central Intelligence, with the approval of
  the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, may transfer funds
  appropriated for a program within the National Foreign Intelligence Program
  to another such program and, in accordance with procedures to be developed
  by the Director and the heads of affected departments and agencies, may
  transfer personnel authorized for an element of the intelligence community
  to another such element for periods up to a year.
  `(2) A transfer of funds or personnel may be made under this subsection
  only if--
  `(A) the funds or personnel are being transferred to an activity that is
  a higher priority intelligence activity;
  `(B) the need for funds or personnel for such activity is based on
  unforeseen requirements;
  `(C) the transfer does not involve a transfer of funds to the Reserve for
  Contingencies of the Central Intelligence Agency;
  `(D) the transfer does not involve a transfer of funds or personnel from
  the Federal Bureau of Investigation; and
  `(E) the Secretary or head of the department which contains the affected
  element or elements of the intelligence community does not object to
  such transfer.
  `(3) Funds transferred under this subsection shall remain available for
  the same period as the appropriations account to which transferred.
  `(4) Any transfer of funds under this subsection shall be carried out in
  accordance with existing procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
  for the appropriate congressional committees. Any proposed transfer for
  which notice is given to the appropriate congressional committees shall be
  accompanied by a report explaining the nature of the proposed transfer and
  how it satisfies the requirements of this subsection. In addition, the Select
  Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the House of Representatives shall be promptly notified of
  any transfer of funds made pursuant to this subsection in any case in which
  the transfer would not have otherwise required reprogramming notification
  under procedures in effect as of the date of the enactment of this section.
  `(5) The Director shall promptly submit to the Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the Senate and to the Permanent Select Committee on
  Intelligence of the House of Representatives and, in the case of the
  transfer of personnel to or from the Department of Defense, the Committees
  on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives, a report on
  any transfer of personnel made pursuant to this subsection. The Director
  shall include in any such report an explanation of the nature of the
  transfer and how it satisfies the requirements of this subsection.
  `(e) COORDINATION WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS- Under the direction of
  the National Security Council and in a manner consistent with section
  207 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3927), the Director
  shall coordinate the relationships between elements of the intelligence
  community and the intelligence or security services of foreign governments
  on all matters involving intelligence related to the national security or
  involving intelligence acquired through clandestine means.
  `(f) USE OF PERSONNEL- The Director shall, in coordination with the heads
  of departments and agencies with elements in the intelligence community,
  institute policies and programs within the intelligence community--
  `(1) to provide for the rotation of personnel between the elements of
  the intelligence community, where appropriate, and to make such rotated
  service a factor to be considered for promotion to senior positions; and
  `(2) to consolidate, wherever possible, personnel, administrative, and
  security programs to reduce the overall costs of these activities within
  the intelligence community.
  `(g) TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT OF CIA EMPLOYEES- Notwithstanding the
  provisions of any other law, the Director may, in the Director's discretion,
  terminate the employment of any officer or employee of the Central
  Intelligence Agency whenever the Director shall deem such termination
  necessary or advisable in the interests of the United States. Any
  such termination shall not affect the right of the officer or employee
  terminated to seek or accept employment in any other department or agency
  of the Government if declared eligible for such employment by the Office
  of Personnel Management.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in the first
  section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by striking out
  the items relating to sections 102a and 103 and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following new items:
`Sec. 103. Responsibilities of the Director of Central Intelligence.
`Sec. 104. Authorities of the Director of Central Intelligence.
`Sec. 107. National Security Resources Board.
`Sec. 108. Annual National Security Strategy Report.'.
SEC. 706. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE PERTAINING TO THE
NATIONAL FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 401 et
  seq.) is amended by inserting after section 104 (as added by section 705)
  the following new sections:
`RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE PERTAINING TO THE NATIONAL
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM
  `SEC. 105. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Defense shall--
  `(1) ensure that the budgets of the elements of the intelligence community
  within the Department of Defense are adequate to satisfy the overall
  intelligence needs of the Department of Defense, including the needs
  of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the commanders of the
  unified and specified commands and, wherever such elements are performing
  governmentwide functions, the needs of other departments and agencies;
  `(2) ensure appropriate implementation of the policies and resource decisions
  of the Director of Central Intelligence by elements of the Department of
  Defense within the National Foreign Intelligence Program;
  `(3) ensure that the tactical intelligence activities of the Department of
  Defense complement and are compatible with intelligence activities under
  the National Foreign Intelligence Program;
  `(4) ensure that the elements of the intelligence community within the
  Department of Defense are responsive and timely with respect to satisfying
  the needs of operational military forces;
  `(5) eliminate waste and unnecessary duplication among the intelligence
  activities of the Department of Defense; and
  `(6) ensure that intelligence activities of the Department of Defense are
  conducted jointly where appropriate.
  `(b) RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS- Consistent
  with sections 103 and 104 of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall
  ensure--
  `(1) through the National Security Agency (except as otherwise directed by
  the President or the National Security Council), the continued operation of
  an effective unified organization for the conduct of signals intelligence
  activities and shall ensure that the product is disseminated in a timely
  manner to authorized recipients;
  `(2) through a central imagery authority (except as otherwise directed
  by the President or the National Security Council), with appropriate
  representation from the intelligence community, the continued operation
  of an effective unified organization within the Department of Defense for
  carrying out tasking of imagery collection, for the coordination of imagery
  processing and exploitation activities, and for ensuring the dissemination
  of imagery in a timely manner to authorized recipients;
  `(3) through the National Reconnaissance Office (except as otherwise directed
  by the President or the National Security Council), the continued operation
  of an effective unified organization for the research and development,
  acquisition, and operation of overhead reconnaissance systems necessary
  to satisfy the requirements of all elements of the intelligence community;
  `(4) through the Defense Intelligence Agency (except as otherwise directed
  by the President or the National Security Council), the continued operation
  of an effective unified system within the Department of Defense for the
  production of timely, objective military and military-related intelligence,
  based upon all sources available to the intelligence community, and shall
  ensure the appropriate dissemination of such intelligence to authorized
  recipients;
  `(5) through the Defense Intelligence Agency (except as otherwise directed
  by the President or the National Security Council), effective management
  of Department of Defense human intelligence activities, including defense
  attaches; and
  `(6) that the military departments maintain sufficient capabilities to
  collect and produce intelligence to meet--
  `(A) the requirements of the Director of Central Intelligence;
  `(B) the requirements of the Secretary of Defense or the Chairman of the
  Joint Chiefs of Staff;
  `(C) the requirements of the unified and specified combatant commands and
  of joint operations; and
  `(D) the specialized requirements of the military departments for
  intelligence necessary to support tactical commanders, military planners,
  the research and development process, the acquisition of military equipment,
  and training and doctrine.
  `(c) USE OF ELEMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE- The Secretary of Defense, in
  carrying out the functions described in this section, may use such elements
  of the Department of Defense as may be appropriate for the execution of
  those functions, in addition to, or in lieu of, the elements identified
  in this section.
`ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS PERTAINING TO DEFENSE ELEMENTS WITHIN THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
  `SEC. 106. (a) CONSULTATIONS WITH REGARD TO CERTAIN APPOINTMENTS- The
  Secretary of Defense shall undertake appropriate consultations with the
  Director of Central Intelligence before the appointment of any individual
  as head of the National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office,
  or the Defense Intelligence Agency.
  `(b) APPOINTMENT OF HEAD OF CENTRAL IMAGERY AUTHORITY- The Secretary shall
  appoint, upon the recommendation of the Director, the head of the central
  imagery authority within the Department of Defense.'.
  (b) AMENDMENT TO TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents in the first
  section of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to
  section 104 (as added by section 705(b)) the following new items:
`Sec. 105. Responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense pertaining to the
National Foreign Intelligence Program.
`Sec. 106. Administrative provisions pertaining to defense elements within
the intelligence community.'.
TITLE VIII--RESTATEMENT OF CIARDS STATUTE
SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `CIARDS Technical Corrections Act of 1992'.
SEC. 802. RESTATEMENT OF ACT.
  The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees
  (50 U.S.C. 403 note) is amended to read as follows:
`SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  `(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act'.
  `(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
`Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
`TITLE I--DEFINITIONS
`Sec. 101. Definitions relating to the system.
`Sec. 102. Definitions relating to participants and annuitants.
`TITLE II--THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
`Part A--Establishment of System
`Sec. 201. The CIARDS system.
`Sec. 202. Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund.
`Sec. 203. Participants in the CIARDS system.
`Sec. 204. Annuitants.
`Part B--Contributions
`Sec. 211. Contributions to fund.
`Part C--Computation of Annuities
`Sec. 221. Computation of annuities.
`Sec. 222. Annuities for former spouses.
`Sec. 223. Election of survivor benefits for certain former spouses divorced
as of November 15, 1982.
`Sec. 224. Survivor annuity for certain other former spouses.
`Sec. 225. Retirement annuity for certain former spouses.
`Sec. 226. Survivor annuities for previous spouses.
`Part D--Benefits Accruing to Certain Participants
`Sec. 231. Retirement for disability or incapacity--medical
examination--recovery.
`Sec. 232. Death in service.
`Sec. 233. Voluntary retirement.
`Sec. 234. Discontinued service benefits.
`Sec. 235. Mandatory retirement.
`Sec. 236. Eligibility for annuity.
`Part E--Lump-Sum Payments
`Sec. 241. Lump-sum payments.
`Part F--Period of Service for Annuities
`Sec. 251. Computation of length of service.
`Sec. 252. Prior service credit.
`Sec. 253. Credit for service while on military leave.
`Part G--Moneys
`Sec. 261. Estimate of appropriations needed.
`Sec. 262. Investment of moneys in the fund.
`Sec. 263. Payment of benefits.
`Sec. 264. Attachment of moneys.
`Sec. 265. Recovery of payments.
`Part H--Retired Participants Recalled, Reinstated, or Reappointed in the
Agency or Reemployed in the Government
`Sec. 271. Recall.
`Sec. 272. Reemployment.
`Sec. 273. Reemployment compensation.
`Part I--Voluntary Contributions
`Sec. 281. Voluntary contributions.
`Part J--Cost-of-Living Adjustment of Annuities
`Sec. 291. Cost-of-living adjustment of annuities.
`Part K--Conformity With Civil Service Retirement System
`Sec. 292. Authority to maintain existing areas of conformity between Civil
Service and Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Systems.
`Sec. 293. Thrift savings plan participation.
`Sec. 294. Alternative forms of annuities.
`Sec. 295. Payments from CIARDS fund for portions of certain Civil Service
Retirement System annuities.
`TITLE III--PARTICIPATION IN THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
`Sec. 301. Application of Federal Employees' Retirement System to Agency
employees.
`Sec. 302. Special rules relating to section 203 criteria employees.
`Sec. 303. Special rules for other employees for service abroad.
`Sec. 304. Special rules for former spouses.
`Sec. 305. Administrative provisions.
`Sec. 306. Regulations.
`Sec. 307. Transition regulations.
`TITLE I--DEFINITIONS
`SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS RELATING TO THE SYSTEM.
  `When used in this Act:
  `(1) AGENCY- The term `Agency' means the Central Intelligence Agency.
  `(2) DIRECTOR- The term `Director' means the Director of Central
  Intelligence.
  `(3) QUALIFYING SERVICE- The term `qualifying service' means service
  determined by the Director to have been performed in carrying out duties
  described in section 203.
  `(4) FUND BALANCE- The term `fund balance' means the sum of--
  `(A) the investments of the fund calculated at par value; and
  `(B) the cash balance of the fund on the books of the Treasury.
  `(5) UNFUNDED LIABILITY- The term `unfunded liability' means the estimated
  amount by which--
  `(A) the present value of all benefits payable from the fund exceeds
  `(B) the sum of--
  `(i) the present value of deductions to be withheld from the future basic
  pay of participants subject to title II and of future Agency contributions
  to be made on the behalf of such participants;
  `(ii) the present value of Government payments to the fund under sections
  261(c) and 261(d); and
  `(iii) the fund balance as of the date on which the unfunded liability
  is determined.
  `(6) NORMAL COST- The term `normal cost' means the level percentage of
  payroll required to be deposited in the fund to meet the cost of benefits
  payable under the system (computed in accordance with generally accepted
  actuarial practice on an entry-age basis) less the value of retirement
  benefits earned under another retirement system for government employees
  and less the cost of credit allowed for military service.
  `(7) LUMP-SUM CREDIT- The term `lump-sum credit' means the unrefunded amount
  consisting of retirement deductions made from a participant's basic pay,
  amounts deposited by a participant covering earlier service, including
  any amounts deposited under section 252(h), and interest determined under
  section 281.
  `(8) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES- The term `congressional
  intelligence committees' means the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
  of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence
  of the Senate.
  `(9) EMPLOYEE- The term `employee' includes an officer of the Agency.
`SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS RELATING TO PARTICIPANTS AND ANNUITANTS.
  `(a) GENERAL DEFINITIONS- When used in title II:
  `(1) FORMER PARTICIPANT- The term `former participant' means a person who--
  `(A) while an employee of the Agency was a participant in the system; and
  `(B) separates from the Agency without entitlement to immediate receipt
  of an annuity from the fund.
  `(2) RETIRED PARTICIPANT- The term `retired participant' means a person who--
  `(A) while an employee of the Agency was a participant in the system; and
  `(B) is entitled to receive an annuity from the fund based upon such
  person's service as a participant.
  `(3) SURVIVING SPOUSE-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The term `surviving spouse' means the surviving wife or
  husband of a participant or retired participant who (i) was married to
  the participant or retired participant for at least 9 months immediately
  preceding the participant's or retired participant's death, or (ii) who
  is the parent of a child born of the marriage.
  `(B) TREATMENT WHEN PARTICIPANT DIES LESS THAN 9 MONTHS AFTER MARRIAGE-
  In a case in which the participant or retired participant dies within the
  9-month period beginning on the date of the marriage, the requirement under
  subparagraph (A)(i) that a marriage have a duration of at least 9 months
  immediately preceding the death of the participant or retired participant
  shall be treated as having been met if--
  `(i) the death of the participant or retired participant was accidental; or
  `(ii) the surviving wife or husband had been previously married to the
  participant or retired participant (and subsequently divorced) and the
  aggregate time married is at least 9 months.
  `(4) FORMER SPOUSE- The term `former spouse' means a former wife or husband
  of a participant, former participant, or retired participant as follows:
  `(A) DIVORCES ON OR BEFORE DECEMBER 4, 1991- In the case of a divorce that
  became final on or before December 4, 1991, such term means a former wife
  or husband of a participant, former participant, or retired participant who
  was married to such participant for not less than 10 years during periods
  of the participant's creditable service, at least 5 years of which were
  spent outside the United States by both such participant and former wife
  or husband during the participant's service as an employee of the Agency.
  `(B) DIVORCES AFTER DECEMBER 4, 1991- In the case of a divorce that becomes
  final after December 4, 1991, such term means a former wife or husband
  of a participant, former participant, or retired participant who was
  married to such participant for not less than 10 years during periods of
  the participant's creditable service, at least 5 years of which were spent
  by the participant during the participant's service as an employee of the
  Agency (i) outside the United States, or (ii) otherwise in a position the
  duties of which qualified the participant for designation by the Director
  as a participant under section 203.
  `(C) CREDITABLE SERVICE- For purposes of subparagraphs (A) and (B), the
  term `creditable service' means all periods of a participant's service
  that are creditable under sections 251, 252, and 253.
  `(5) PREVIOUS SPOUSE- The term `previous spouse' means an individual who
  was married for at least 9 months to a participant, former participant,
  or retired participant who had at least 18 months of service which are
  creditable under sections 251, 252, and 253.
  `(6) SPOUSAL AGREEMENT- The term `spousal agreement' means an agreement
  between a participant, former participant, or retired participant and the
  participant, former participant, or retired participant's spouse or former
  spouse that--
  `(A) is in writing, is signed by the parties, and is notarized;
  `(B) has not been modified by court order; and
  `(C) has been authenticated by the Director.
  `(7) COURT ORDER- The term `court order' means--
  `(A) a court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation; or
  `(B) a court order or court-approved property settlement agreement incident
  to such court decree of divorce, annulment, or legal separation.
  `(8) COURT- The term `court' means a court of a State, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the Northern Mariana
  Islands, or the Virgin Islands, and any Indian court.
  `(b) DEFINITION OF CHILD- For purposes of sections 221 and 232:
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The term `child' means any of the following:
  `(A) MINOR CHILDREN- An unmarried dependent child under 18 years of age,
  including--
  `(i) an adopted child;
  `(ii) a stepchild, but only if the stepchild lived with the participant
  or retired participant in a regular parent-child relationship;
  `(iii) a recognized natural child; and
  `(iv) a child who lived with the participant, for whom a petition of
  adoption was filed by the participant or retired participant, and who
  is adopted by the surviving spouse after the death of the participant or
  retired participant.
  `(B) DISABLED ADULT CHILDREN- An unmarried dependent child, regardless
  of age, who is incapable of self-support because of a physical or mental
  disability incurred before age 18.
  `(C) STUDENTS- An unmarried dependent child between 18 and 22 years
  of age who is a student regularly pursuing a full-time course of study
  or training in residence in a high school, trade school, technical or
  vocational institute, junior college, college, university, or comparable
  recognized educational institution.
  `(2) SPECIAL RULES FOR STUDENTS-
  `(A) EXTENSION OF AGE TERMINATION OF STATUS AS `CHILD'- For purposes of
  this subsection, a child whose 22nd birthday occurs before July 1 or after
  August 31 of a calendar year, and while regularly pursuing such a course
  of study or training, shall be treated as having attained the age of 22
  on the first day of July following that birthday.
  `(B) TREATMENT OF INTERIM PERIOD BETWEEN SCHOOL YEARS- A child who is a
  student is deemed not to have ceased to be a student during an interim
  between school years if the interim does not exceed 5 months and if the
  child shows to the satisfaction of the Director that the child has a bona
  fide intention of continuing to pursue a course of study or training in
  the same or different school during the school semester (or other period
  into which the school year is divided) immediately following the interim.
  `(3) DEPENDENT DEFINED- For purposes of this subsection, the term
  `dependent', with respect to the child of a participant or retired
  participant, means that the participant or retired participant was, at
  the time of the death of the participant or retired participant, either
  living with or contributing to the support of the child, as determined in
  accordance with regulations prescribed under title II.
  `(4) EXCLUSION OF STEPCHILDREN FROM LUMP-SUM PAYMENT- For purposes of
  section 241(c), the term `child' includes an adopted child and a natural
  child, but does not include a stepchild.
`TITLE II--THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
`Part A--Establishment of System
`SEC. 201. THE CIARDS SYSTEM.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM- There is a retirement and disability system
  for certain employees of the Central Intelligence Agency known as the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System (hereinafter in this Act
  referred to as the `system'), originally established pursuant to title II of
  the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.
  `(2) DCI REGULATIONS- The Director shall prescribe regulations for the
  system. The Director shall submit any proposed regulations for the system
  to the congressional intelligence committees not less than 14 days before
  they take effect.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATION OF SYSTEM- The Director shall administer the system
  in accordance with regulations prescribed under this title and with the
  principles established by this title.
  `(c) FINALITY OF DECISIONS OF DCI- In the interests of the security of the
  foreign intelligence activities of the United States and in order further
  to implement the proviso of section 102(d)(3) of the National Security Act
  of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403(d)(3)) that the Director of Central Intelligence
  shall be responsible for protecting intelligence sources and methods from
  unauthorized disclosure, and notwithstanding the provisions of chapter 7 of
  title 5, United States Code, or any other provision of law (except section
  305(b) of this Act), any determination by the Director authorized by this
  Act shall be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by
  any court.
`SEC. 202. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY FUND.
  `The Director shall maintain the fund in the Treasury known as the `Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund' (hereinafter in this
  Act referred to as the `fund'), originally created pursuant to title II of
  the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees.
`SEC. 203. PARTICIPANTS IN THE CIARDS SYSTEM.
  `(a) DESIGNATION OF PARTICIPANTS- The Director may from time to time
  designate employees of the Agency who shall be entitled to participate in
  the system. Employees so designated who elect to participate in the system
  are referred to in this Act as `participants'.
  `(b) QUALIFYING SERVICE- Designation of employees under this section may
  be made only from among employees of the Agency who have completed at
  least 5 years of qualifying service. For purposes of this Act, qualifying
  service is service in the Agency performed in carrying out duties that
  are determined by the Director--
  `(1) to be in support of Agency activities abroad hazardous to life or
  health; or
  `(2) to be so specialized because of security requirements as to be clearly
  distinguishable from normal government employment.
  `(c) ELECTION OF EMPLOYEE TO BE A PARTICIPANT-
  `(1) PERMANENCE OF ELECTION- An employee of the Agency who elects to accept
  designation as a participant in the system shall remain a participant of
  the system for the duration of that individual's employment with the Agency.
  `(2) IRREVOCABILITY OF ELECTION- Such an election shall be irrevocable
  except as and to the extent provided in section 301(d).
  `(3) ELECTION NOT SUBJECT TO APPROVAL- An election under this section is
  not subject to review or approval by the Director.
`SEC. 204. ANNUITANTS.
  `Persons who are annuitants under the system are--
  `(1) those persons who, on the basis of their service in the Agency, have
  met all requirements for an annuity under this title or any other Act and
  are receiving an annuity from the fund; and
  `(2) those persons who, on the basis of someone else's service, meet all
  the requirements under this title or any other Act for an annuity payable
  from the fund.
`Part B--Contributions
`SEC. 211. CONTRIBUTIONS TO FUND.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) PARTICIPANT'S CONTRIBUTIONS- Except as provided in subsection (d), 7
  percent of the basic pay received by a participant for any pay period shall
  be deducted and withheld from the pay of that participant and contributed
  to the fund.
  `(2) AGENCY CONTRIBUTIONS- An equal amount shall be contributed to the
  fund for that pay period from the appropriation or fund which is used for
  payment of the participant's basic pay.
  `(3) DEPOSITS TO THE FUND- The amounts deducted and withheld from basic pay,
  together with the amounts so contributed from the appropriation or fund,
  shall be deposited by the Director to the credit of the fund.
  `(b) CONSENT OF PARTICIPANT TO DEDUCTIONS FROM PAY- Each participant
  shall be deemed to consent and agree to such deductions from basic pay,
  and payment less such deductions shall be a full and complete discharge
  and acquittance of all claims and demands whatsoever for all regular
  services during the period covered by such payment, except the right
  to the benefits to which the participant is entitled under this title,
  notwithstanding any law, rule, or regulation affecting the individual's pay.
  `(c) TREATMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS AFTER 35 YEARS OF SERVICE-
  `(1) ACCRUAL OF INTEREST- Amounts deducted and withheld from the basic pay
  of a participant under this section for pay periods after the first day
  of the first pay period beginning after the day on which the participant
  completes 35 years of creditable service computed under sections 251 and 252
  (excluding service credit for unused sick leave under section 221(a)(2))
  shall accrue interest. Such interest shall accrue at the rate of 3 percent
  a year through December 31, 1984, and thereafter at the rate computed under
  section 8334(e) of title 5, United States Code, and shall be compounded
  annually from the date on which the amount is so deducted and withheld
  until the date of the participant's retirement or death.
  `(2) USE OF AMOUNTS WITHHELD AFTER 35 YEARS OF SERVICE-
  `(A) USE FOR DEPOSITS DUE UNDER SECTION 252(b)- Amounts described in
  paragraph (1), including interest accrued on such amounts, shall be applied
  upon the participant's retirement or death toward any deposit due under
  section 252(b).
  `(B) LUMP-SUM PAYMENT- Any balance of such amounts not so required for
  such a deposit shall be refunded to the participant in a lump sum after
  the participant's separation (or, in the event of a death in service,
  to a beneficiary in order of precedence specified in subsection 241(c)),
  subject to the requirement under section 241(b)(4).
  `(C) PURCHASES OF ADDITIONAL ELECTIVE BENEFITS- In lieu of such a lump-sum
  payment, the participant may use such amounts--
  `(i) to purchase an additional annuity in accordance with section 281; or
  `(ii) provide any additional survivor benefit for a current or former
  spouse or spouses.
  `(d) OFFSET FOR SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES-
  `(1) PERSONS COVERED- In the case of a participant who was a participant
  subject to this title before January 1, 1984, and whose service--
  `(A) is employment for the purposes of title II of the Social Security
  Act and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, and
  `(B) is not creditable service for any purpose under title III of this
  Act or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
there shall be deducted and withheld from the basic pay of the participant
under this section during any pay period only the amount computed under
paragraph (2).
  `(2) REDUCTION IN CONTRIBUTION- The amount deducted and withheld from the
  basic pay of a participant during any pay period pursuant to paragraph
  (1) shall be the excess of--
  `(A) the amount determined by multiplying the percent applicable to the
  participant under subsection (a) by the basic pay payable to the participant
  for that pay period, over
  `(B) the amount of the taxes deducted and withheld from such basic pay
  under section 3101(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (relating to
  old-age, survivors, and disability insurance) for that pay period.
`Part C--Computation of Annuities
`SEC. 221. COMPUTATION OF ANNUITIES.
  `(a) ANNUITY OF PARTICIPANT-
  `(1) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITY- The annuity of a participant is the product of--
  `(A) the participant's high-3 average pay (as defined in paragraph (4)); and
  `(B) the number of years, not exceeding 35, of service credit (determined
  in accordance with sections 251 and 252) multiplied by 2 percent.
  `(2) CREDIT FOR UNUSED SICK LEAVE- The total service of a participant who
  retires on an immediate annuity (except under section 231) or who dies
  leaving a survivor or survivors entitled to an annuity shall include
  (without regard to the 35-year limitation prescribed in paragraph (1))
  the days of unused sick leave to the credit of the participant. Days of
  unused sick leave may not be counted in determining average basic pay
  or eligibility for an annuity under this title. A deposit shall not be
  required for days of unused sick leave credited under this paragraph.
  `(3) CREDITING OF PART-TIME SERVICE-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- In the case of a participant whose service includes service
  on a part-time basis performed after April 6, 1986, the participant's annuity
  shall be the sum of the amounts determined under subparagraphs (B) and (C).
  `(B) COMPUTATION OF PRE-APRIL 7, 1986, ANNUITY- The portion of an
  annuity referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to service before
  April 7, 1986, shall be the amount computed under paragraph (1) using the
  participant's length of service before that date (increased by the unused
  sick leave to the credit of the participant at the time of retirement)
  and the participant's high-3 average pay.
  `(C) COMPUTATION OF POST-APRIL 6, 1986, ANNUITY- The portion of an annuity
  referred to in subparagraph (A) with respect to service after April 6,
  1986, shall be the product of--
  `(i) the amount computed under paragraph (1), using the participant's
  length of service after that date and the participant's high-3 average pay,
  as determined by using the annual rate of basic pay that would be payable
  for full-time service; and
  `(ii) the ratio which the participant's actual service after April 6,
  1986 (as determined by prorating the participant's total service after
  that date to reflect the service that was performed on a part-time basis)
  bears to the total service after that date that would be creditable for
  the participant if all the service had been performed on a full-time basis.
  `(D) TREATMENT OF EMPLOYMENT ON TEMPORARY OR INTERMITTENT BASIS- Employment
  on a temporary or intermittent basis shall not be considered to be service
  on a part-time basis for purposes of this paragraph.
  `(4) HIGH-3 AVERAGE PAY DEFINED- For purposes of this subsection, a
  participant's high-3 average pay is the amount of the participant's average
  basic pay for the highest 3 consecutive years of the participant's service
  (or, in the case of an annuity computed under section 232 and based on
  less than 3 years, over the total service) for which full contributions
  have been made to the fund.
  `(5) COMPUTATION OF SERVICE- In determining the aggregate period of service
  upon which an annuity is to be based, any fractional part of a month shall
  not be counted.
  `(b) SPOUSE OR FORMER SPOUSE SURVIVOR ANNUITY-
  `(1) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY TO PROVIDE SPOUSE OR FORMER SPOUSE
  SURVIVOR ANNUITY-
  `(A) GENERAL RULE- Except to the extent provided otherwise under a written
  election under subparagraph (B) or (C), if at the time of retirement a
  participant or former participant is married (or has a former spouse who
  has not remarried before attaining age 55), the participant shall receive
  a reduced annuity and provide a survivor annuity for the participant's
  spouse under this subsection or former spouse under section 222(b), or a
  combination of such annuities, as the case may be.
  `(B) JOINT ELECTION FOR WAIVER OR REDUCTION OF SPOUSE SURVIVOR ANNUITY-
  A married participant or former participant and the participant's spouse
  may jointly elect in writing at the time of retirement to waive a survivor
  annuity for that spouse under this section or to reduce such survivor
  annuity under this section by designating a portion of the annuity of
  the participant as the base for the survivor annuity. If the marriage is
  dissolved following an election for such a reduced annuity and the spouse
  qualifies as a former spouse, the base used in calculating any annuity of
  the former spouse under section 222(b) may not exceed the portion of the
  participant's annuity designated under this subparagraph.
  `(C) JOINT ELECTION OF PARTICIPANT AND FORMER SPOUSE- If a participant
  or former participant has a former spouse, such participant and the
  participant's former spouse may jointly elect by spousal agreement under
  section 264(b) to waive, reduce, or increase a survivor annuity under
  section 222(b) for that former spouse. Any such election must be made (i)
  before the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date on which the
  divorce or annulment involving that former spouse becomes final, or (ii)
  at the time of retirement of the participant, whichever is later.
  `(D) UNILATERAL ELECTIONS IN ABSENCE OF SPOUSE OR FORMER SPOUSE- The
  Director may prescribe regulations under which a participant or former
  participant may make an election under subparagraph (B) or (C) without
  the participant's spouse or former spouse if the participant establishes
  to the satisfaction of the Director that the participant does not know,
  and has taken all reasonable steps to determine, the whereabouts of the
  spouse or former spouse.
  `(2) AMOUNT OF REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY- The annuity of a
  participant or former participant providing a survivor annuity under
  this section (or section 222(b)), excluding any portion of the annuity
  not designated or committed as a base for any survivor annuity, shall be
  reduced by 2 1/2  percent of the first $3,600 plus 10 percent of any amount
  over $3,600. The reduction under this paragraph shall be calculated before
  any reduction under section 222(a)(5).
  `(3) AMOUNT OF SURVIVING SPOUSE ANNUITY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- If a retired participant receiving a reduced annuity under
  this subsection dies and is survived by a spouse, a survivor annuity shall
  be paid to the surviving spouse. The amount of the annuity shall be equal
  to 55 percent of (i) the full amount of the participant's annuity computed
  under subsection (a), or (ii) any lesser amount elected as the base for
  the survivor annuity under paragraph (1)(B).
  `(B) LIMITATION- Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the amount of the annuity
  calculated under subparagraph (A) for a surviving spouse in any case in
  which there is also a surviving former spouse of the retired participant
  who qualifies for an annuity under section 222(b) may not exceed 55 percent
  of the portion (if any) of the base for survivor annuities which remains
  available under section 222(b)(4)(B).
  `(C) EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERMINATION OF ANNUITY- An annuity payable from
  the fund to a surviving spouse under this paragraph shall commence on
  the day after the retired participant dies and shall terminate on the
  last day of the month before the surviving spouse's death or remarriage
  before attaining age 55. If such survivor annuity is terminated because of
  remarriage, it shall be restored at the same rate commencing on the date
  such remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce if any lump
  sum paid upon termination of the annuity is returned to the fund.
  `(c) 18-MONTH OPEN PERIOD AFTER RETIREMENT TO PROVIDE SPOUSE COVERAGE-
  `(1) SURVIVOR ANNUITY ELECTIONS-
  `(A) ELECTION WHEN SPOUSE COVERAGE WAIVED AT TIME OF RETIREMENT- A
  participant or former participant who retires after March 31, 1992 and who--
  `(i) is married at the time of retirement; and
  `(ii) elects at that time (in accordance with subsection (b)) to waive a
  survivor annuity for the spouse,
may, during the 18-month period beginning on the date of the retirement of
the participant, elect to have a reduction under subsection (b) made in the
annuity of the participant (or in such portion thereof as the participant may
designate) in order to provide a survivor annuity for the participant's spouse.
  `(B) ELECTION WHEN REDUCED SPOUSE ANNUITY ELECTED- A participant or former
  participant who retires after March 31, 1992, and--
  `(i) who, at the time of retirement, is married, and
  `(ii) who, at that  time designates (in accordance with subsection (b))
  that a portion of the annuity of such participant is to be used as the
  base for a survivor annuity,
may, during the 18-month period beginning on the date of the retirement of
such participant, elect to have a greater portion of the annuity of such
participant so used.
  `(2) DEPOSIT REQUIRED-
  `(A) REQUIREMENT- An election under paragraph (1) shall not be effective
  unless the amount specified in subparagraph (B) is deposited into the fund
  before the end of that 18-month period.
  `(B) AMOUNT OF DEPOSIT- The amount to be deposited with respect to an
  election under this subsection is the amount equal to the sum of the
  following:
  `(i) ADDITIONAL COST TO SYSTEM- The additional cost to the system that is
  associated with providing a survivor annuity under subsection (b) and that
  results from such election, taking into account--
  `(I) the difference (for the period between the date on which the annuity
  of the participant or former participant commences and the date of the
  election) between the amount paid to such participant or former participant
  under this title and the amount which would have been paid if such election
  had been made at the time the participant or former participant applied
  for the annuity; and
  `(II) the costs associated with providing for the later election.
  `(ii) INTEREST- Interest on the additional cost determined under clause
  (i), computed using the interest rate specified or determined under section
  8334(e) of title 5, United States Code, for the calendar year in which
  the amount to be deposited is determined.
  `(3) VOIDING OF PREVIOUS ELECTIONS- An election by a participant or former
  participant under this subsection voids prospectively any election previously
  made in the case of such participant under subsection (b).
  `(4) REDUCTIONS IN ANNUITY- An annuity that is reduced in connection with
  an election under this subsection shall be reduced by the same percentage
  reductions as were in effect at the time of the retirement of the participant
  or former participant whose annuity is so reduced.
  `(5) RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS RESULTING FROM REDUCED ANNUITY ELECTION-
  Rights and obligations resulting from the election of a reduced annuity
  under this subsection shall be the same as the rights and obligations that
  would have resulted had the participant involved elected such annuity at
  the time of retirement.
  `(d) ANNUITIES FOR SURVIVING CHILDREN-
  `(1) PARTICIPANTS DYING BEFORE APRIL 1, 1992- In the case of a retired
  participant who died before April 1, 1992, and who is survived by a child
  or children--
  `(A) if the retired participant was survived by a spouse, there shall be
  paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity
  determined under paragraph (3)(A); and
  `(B) if the retired participant was not survived by a spouse, there shall
  be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an
  annuity determined under paragraph (3)(B).
  `(2) PARTICIPANTS DYING ON OR AFTER APRIL 1, 1992- In the case of a retired
  participant who dies on or after April 1, 1992, and who is survived by a
  child or children--
  `(A) if the retired participant is survived by a spouse or former spouse who
  is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant,
  there shall be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving
  child an annuity determined under paragraph (3)(A); and
  `(B) if the retired participant is not survived by a spouse or former
  spouse who is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the
  participant, there shall be paid to or on behalf of each such surviving
  child an annuity determined under paragraph (3)(B).
  `(3) AMOUNT OF ANNUITY-
  `(A) The annual amount of an annuity for the surviving child of a
  participant covered by paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A) of this subsection (or
  covered by paragraph (1)(A) or (2)(A) of section 232(c)) is the smallest
  of the following:
  `(i) 60 percent of the participant's high-3 average pay, as determined
  under subsection (a)(4), divided by the number of children.
  `(ii) $900, as adjusted under section 291.
  `(iii) $2,700, as adjusted under section 291, divided by the number of
  children.
  `(B) The amount of an annuity for the surviving child of a participant
  covered by paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(B) of this subsection (or covered
  by paragraph (1)(B) or (2)(B) of section 232(c)) is the smallest of the
  following:
  `(i) 75 percent of the participant's high-3 average pay, as determined
  under subsection (a)(4), divided by the number of children.
  `(ii) $1,080, as adjusted under section 291.
  `(iii) $3,240, as adjusted under section 291, divided by the number of
  children.
  `(4) RECOMPUTATION OF CHILD ANNUITIES-
  `(A) In the case of a child annuity payable under paragraph (1), upon the
  death of a surviving spouse or the termination of the annuity of a child,
  the annuities of any remaining children shall be recomputed and paid as
  though the spouse or child had not survived the retired participant.
  `(B) In the case of a child annuity payable under paragraph (2), upon the
  death of a surviving spouse or former spouse or termination of the annuity
  of a child, the annuities of any remaining children shall be recomputed
  and paid as though the spouse, former spouse, or child had not survived
  the retired participant. If the annuity of a surviving child who has not
  been receiving an annuity is initiated or resumed, the annuities of any
  other children shall be recomputed and paid from that date as though the
  annuities of all currently eligible children were then being initiated.
  `(5) DEFINITION OF FORMER SPOUSE- For purposes of this subsection, the
  term `former spouse' includes any former wife or husband of the retired
  participant, regardless of the length of marriage or the amount of creditable
  service completed by the participant.
  `(e) COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF CHILD ANNUITIES-
  `(1) COMMENCEMENT- An annuity payable to a child under subsection (d), or
  under section 232(c), shall begin on the day after the date on which the
  participant or retired participant dies or, in the case of an individual
  over the age of 18 who is not a child within the meaning of section 102(b),
  shall begin or resume on the first day of the month in which the individual
  later becomes or again becomes a student as described in section 102(b). Such
  annuity may not commence until any lump-sum that has been paid is returned
  to the fund.
  `(2) TERMINATION- Such an annuity shall terminate on the last day of the
  month before the month in which the recipient of the annuity dies or no
  longer qualifies as a child (as defined in section 102(b)).
  `(f) PARTICIPANTS NOT MARRIED AT TIME OF RETIREMENT-
  `(1) DESIGNATION OF PERSONS WITH INSURABLE INTEREST-
  `(A) AUTHORITY TO MAKE DESIGNATION- Subject to the rights of former
  spouses under sections 221(b) and 222, at the time of retirement an
  unmarried participant found by the Director to be in good health may
  elect to receive an annuity reduced in accordance with subparagraph (B)
  and designate in writing an individual having an insurable interest in the
  participant to receive an annuity under the system. The amount of such an
  annuity shall be equal to 55 percent of the participant's reduced annuity
  after the participant's death.
  `(B) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY- The annuity payable to the
  participant making such election shall be reduced by 10 percent of an annuity
  computed under subsection (a) and by an additional 5 percent for each full
  5 years the designated individual is younger than the participant. The
  total reduction under this subparagraph may not exceed 40 percent.
  `(C) COMMENCEMENT OF SURVIVOR ANNUITY- The annuity payable to the designated
  individual shall begin on the day after the retired participant dies and
  terminate on the last day of the month before the designated individual dies.
  `(D) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY ON DEATH OF DESIGNATED
  INDIVIDUAL- An annuity which is reduced under this paragraph shall, effective
  the first day of the month following the death of the designated individual,
  be recomputed and paid as if the annuity had not been so reduced.
  `(2) ELECTION OF SURVIVOR ANNUITY UPON SUBSEQUENT MARRIAGE- A participant
  who is unmarried at the time of retirement and who later marries may
  irrevocably elect, in a signed writing received by the Director within
  one year after the marriage, to receive a reduced annuity as provided in
  section 221(b). Such election and reduction shall be effective on the first
  day of the month beginning 9 months after the date of marriage. The election
  voids prospectively any election previously made under paragraph (1).
  `(g) EFFECT OF DIVORCE AFTER RETIREMENT-
  `(1) RECOMPUTATION OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY UPON DIVORCE- An annuity
  which is reduced under this section (or any similar prior provision of law)
  to provide a survivor annuity for a spouse shall, if the marriage of the
  retired participant to such spouse is dissolved, be recomputed and paid
  for each full month during which a retired participant is not married (or
  is remarried if there is no election in effect under paragraph (2)) as if
  the annuity had not been so reduced, subject to any reduction required to
  provide a survivor annuity under subsection (b) or (c) of section 222 or
  under section 226.
  `(2) ELECTION OF SURVIVOR ANNUITY UPON SUBSEQUENT REMARRIAGE-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Upon remarriage, the retired participant may irrevocably
  elect, by means of a signed writing received by the Director within one
  year after such remarriage, to receive a reduced annuity for the purpose of
  providing  an annuity for the new spouse of the retired participant in the
  event such spouse survives the retired participant. Such reduction shall
  be equal to the reduction in effect immediately before the dissolution
  of the previous marriage (unless such reduction is adjusted under section
  222(b)(5) or elected under subparagraph (B)).
  `(B) WHEN ANNUITY PREVIOUSLY NOT (OR NOT FULLY) REDUCED-
  `(i) ELECTION- If the retired participant's annuity was not reduced (or
  was not fully reduced) to provide a survivor annuity for the participant's
  spouse or former spouse as of the time of retirement, the retired participant
  may make an election under the first sentence of subparagraph (A) upon
  remarriage to a spouse other than the spouse at the time of retirement. For
  any remarriage that occurred before August 14, 1991, the retired participant
  may make such an election within 2 years after such date.
  `(ii) DEPOSIT REQUIRED-
  `(I) The retired participant shall, within one year after the date of the
  remarriage (or by August 14, 1993 for any remarriage that occurred before
  August 14, 1991), deposit in the fund an amount determined by the Director,
  as nearly as may be administratively feasible, to reflect the amount by which
  the retired participant's annuity would have been reduced if the election
  had been in effect since the date the annuity commenced, plus interest.
  `(II) The annual rate of interest for each year during which the retired
  participant's annuity would have been reduced if the election had been in
  effect since the  date the annuity commenced shall be 6 percent.
  `(III) If the retired participant does not make the deposit, the Director
  shall collect such amount by offset against the participant's annuity, up to
  a maximum of 25 percent of the net annuity otherwise payable to the retired
  participant, and the retired participant is deemed to consent to such offset.
  `(IV) The deposit required by this subparagraph may be made by the surviving
  spouse of the retired participant.
  `(C) EFFECTS OF ELECTION- An election under this paragraph and the reduction
  in the participant's annuity shall be effective on the first day of the
  month beginning 9 months after the date of remarriage. A survivor annuity
  elected under this paragraph shall be treated in all respects as a survivor
  annuity under subsection (b).
  `(h) COORDINATION OF ANNUITIES-
  `(1) SURVIVING SPOUSE- A surviving spouse whose survivor annuity was
  terminated because of remarriage before attaining age 55 shall not be
  entitled under subsection (b)(3)(C) to the restoration of that survivor
  annuity payable from the fund unless the surviving spouse elects to receive
  it instead of any other survivor annuity to which the surviving spouse may
  be entitled under the system or any other retirement system for Government
  employees by reason of the remarriage.
  `(2) FORMER SPOUSE- A surviving former spouse of a participant or retired
  participant shall not become entitled under section 222(b) or 224 to a
  survivor annuity or to the restoration of a survivor annuity payable from
  the fund unless the surviving former spouse elects to receive it instead
  of any other survivor annuity to which the surviving former spouse may be
  entitled under this or any other retirement system for Government employees
  on the basis of a marriage to someone other than the participant.
  `(3) SURVIVING SPOUSE OF POST-RETIREMENT MARRIAGE- A surviving spouse who
  married a participant after the participant's retirement shall be entitled
  to a survivor annuity payable from the fund only upon electing that annuity
  instead of any other survivor annuity to which the surviving spouse may be
  entitled under this or any other retirement system for Government employees
  on the basis of a marriage to someone other than the retired participant.
  `(i) SUPPLEMENTAL SURVIVOR ANNUITIES-
  `(1) SPOUSE OF RECALLED ANNUITANT- A married recalled annuitant who reverts
  to retired status with entitlement to a supplemental annuity under section
  271(b) shall, unless the annuitant and the annuitant's spouse jointly elect
  in writing to the contrary at the time of reversion to retired status, have
  the supplemental annuity reduced by 10 percent to provide a supplemental
  survivor annuity for the annuitant's spouse. Such supplemental survivor
  annuity shall be equal to 55 percent of the supplemental annuity of the
  annuitant.
  `(2) REGULATIONS- The Director shall prescribe regulations to provide for
  the application of paragraph (1) of this subsection and of subsection (b)
  of section 271 in any case in which an annuitant has a former spouse who
  was married to the recalled annuitant at any time during the period of
  recall service and who qualifies for an annuity under section 222(b).
  `(j) OFFSET OF ANNUITIES BY AMOUNT OF SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT-
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, an annuity (including
  a disability annuity) payable under this title to an individual described
  in sections 211(d)(1) and 301(c)(1) and any survivor annuity payable under
  this title on the basis of the service of such individual shall be reduced
  (except as provided in paragraph (2)) in a manner consistent with section
  8349 of title 5, United States Code, under conditions consistent with the
  conditions prescribed in that section.
  `(k) INFORMATION FROM OTHER AGENCIES-
  `(1) OTHER AGENCIES- For the purpose of ensuring the accuracy of the
  information used in the determination of eligibility for and the computation
  of annuities payable from the fund under this title, at the request of
  the Director--
  `(A) the Secretary of Defense shall provide information on retired or
  retainer pay paid under title 10, United States Code;
  `(B) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide information on pensions
  or compensation paid under title 38, United States Code;
  `(C) the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall provide information
  contained in the records of the Social Security Administration; and
  `(D) the Secretary of Labor shall provide information on benefits paid
  under subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(2) LIMITATION ON INFORMATION REQUESTED- The Director shall request only
  such information as the Director determines is necessary.
  `(3) LIMITATION ON USES OF INFORMATION- The Director, in consultation
  with the officials from whom information is requested, shall ensure that
  information made available under this subsection is used only for the
  purposes authorized.
  `(l) INFORMATION ON RIGHTS UNDER THE SYSTEM- The Director shall, on an
  annual basis--
  `(1) inform each retired participant of the participant's right of election
  under subsections (c), (f)(2), and (g); and
  `(2) to the maximum extent practicable, inform spouses and former spouses
  of participants, former participants, and retired participants of their
  rights under this Act.
`SEC. 222. ANNUITIES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.
  `(a) FORMER SPOUSE SHARE OF PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY-
  `(1) PRO RATA SHARE- Unless otherwise expressly provided by a spousal
  agreement or court order under section 264(b), a former spouse of a
  participant, former participant, or retired participant is entitled to
  an annuity--
  `(A) if married to the participant, former participant, or retired
  participant throughout the creditable service of the participant, equal
  to 50 percent of the annuity of the participant; or
  `(B) if not married to the participant throughout such creditable service,
  equal to that proportion of 50 percent of such annuity that is the proportion
  that the number of days of the marriage of the former spouse to the
  participant during periods of creditable service of such participant under
  this title bears to the total number of days of such creditable service.
  `(2) DISQUALIFICATION UPON REMARRIAGE BEFORE AGE 55- A former spouse is not
  qualified for an annuity under this subsection if before the commencement
  of that annuity the former spouse remarries before becoming 55 years of age.
  `(3) COMMENCEMENT OF ANNUITY- The annuity of a former spouse under this
  subsection commences on the day the participant upon whose service the
  annuity is based becomes entitled to an annuity under this title or on
  the first day of the month after the divorce or annulment involved becomes
  final, whichever is later.
  `(4) TERMINATION OF ANNUITY- The annuity of such former spouse and the
  right thereto terminate on--
  `(A) the last day of the month before the month in which the former spouse
  dies or remarries before 55 years of age; or
  `(B) the date on which the annuity of the participant terminates (except
  in the case of an annuity subject to paragraph (5)(B)).
  `(5) TREATMENT OF PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY-
  `(A) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY- The annuity payable to any
  participant shall be reduced by the amount of an annuity under this
  subsection paid to any former spouse based upon the service of that
  participant. Such reduction shall be disregarded in calculating--
  `(i) the survivor annuity for any spouse, former spouse, or other survivor
  under this title; and
  `(ii) any reduction in the annuity of the participant to provide survivor
  benefits under subsection (b) or under section 221(b).
  `(B) TREATMENT WHEN ANNUITANT RETURNS TO SERVICE- If an annuitant whose
  annuity is reduced under subparagraph (A) is recalled to service under
  section 271, or reinstated or reappointed, in the case of a recovered
  disability annuitant, or if any annuitant is reemployed as provided for
  under sections 272 and 273, the pay of that annuitant shall be reduced
  by the same amount as the annuity would have been reduced if it had
  continued. Amounts equal to the reductions under this subparagraph shall
  be deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the fund.
  `(6) DISABILITY ANNUITANT- Notwithstanding paragraph (3), in the case of
  a former spouse of a disability annuitant--
  `(A) the annuity of that former spouse shall commence on the date on which
  the participant would qualify on the basis of the participant's creditable
  service for an annuity under this title (other than a disability annuity)
  or the date on which the disability annuity begins, whichever is later, and
  `(B) the amount of the annuity of the former spouse shall be calculated
  on the basis of the annuity for which the participant would otherwise
  so qualify.
  `(7) ELECTION OF BENEFITS- A former spouse of a participant, former
  participant, or retired participant shall not become entitled under this
  subsection to an annuity payable from the fund unless the former spouse
  elects to receive it instead of any other annuity to which the former spouse
  may be entitled under this or any other retirement system for Government
  employees on the basis of a marriage to someone other than the participant.
  `(8) LIMITATION IN CASE OF MULTIPLE FORMER SPOUSE ANNUITIES- No spousal
  agreement or court order under section 264(b) involving a participant may
  provide for an annuity or a combination of annuities under this subsection
  that exceeds the annuity of the participant.
  `(b) FORMER SPOUSE SURVIVOR ANNUITY-
  `(1) PRO RATA SHARE- Subject to any election under section 221(b)(1)(B)
  and (C) and unless otherwise expressly provided by a spousal agreement or
  court order under section 264(b), if an annuitant is survived by a former
  spouse, the former spouse shall be entitled--
  `(A) if married to the annuitant throughout the creditable service of
  the annuitant, to a survivor annuity equal to 55 percent of the unreduced
  amount of the annuitant's annuity, as computed under section 221(a); and
  `(B) if not married to the annuitant throughout such creditable service,
  to a survivor annuity equal to that proportion of 55 percent of the
  unreduced amount of such annuity that is the proportion that the number
  of days of the marriage of the former spouse to the participant during
  periods of creditable service of such participant under this title bears
  to the total number of days of such creditable service.
  `(2) DISQUALIFICATION UPON REMARRIAGE BEFORE AGE 55- A former spouse
  shall not be qualified for an annuity under this subsection if before the
  commencement of that annuity the former spouse remarries before becoming
  55 years of age.
  `(3) COMMENCEMENT, TERMINATION, AND RESTORATION OF ANNUITY- An annuity
  payable from the fund under this title to a surviving former spouse under
  this subsection shall commence on the day after the annuitant dies and shall
  terminate on the last day of the month before the former spouse's death or
  remarriage before attaining age 55. If such a survivor annuity is terminated
  because of remarriage, it shall be restored at the same rate commencing
  on the date such remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce
  if any lump sum paid upon termination of the annuity is returned to the fund.
  `(4) SURVIVOR ANNUITY AMOUNT-
  `(A) MAXIMUM AMOUNT- The maximum survivor annuity or combination of
  survivor annuities under this subsection (and section 221(b)(3)) with
  respect to any participant may not exceed 55 percent of the full amount
  of the participant's annuity, as calculated under section 221(a).
  `(B) LIMITATION ON OTHER SURVIVOR ANNUITIES BASED ON SERVICE OF SAME
  PARTICIPANT- Once a survivor annuity has been provided under this subsection
  for any former spouse, a survivor annuity for another individual may
  thereafter be provided under this subsection (or section 221(b)(3))
  with respect to the participant only for that portion (if any) of the
  maximum available which is not committed for survivor benefits for any
  former spouse whose prospective right to such annuity has not terminated
  by reason of death or remarriage.
  `(C) FINALITY OF COURT ORDER UPON DEATH OF PARTICIPANT- After the death of
  a participant or retired participant, a court order under section 264(b)
  may not adjust the amount of the annuity of a former spouse of that
  participant or retired participant under this section.
  `(5) EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF FORMER SPOUSE ENTITLEMENT-
  `(A) RECOMPUTATION OF PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY- If a former spouse of a retired
  participant dies or remarries before attaining age 55, the annuity of the
  retired participant, if reduced to provide a survivor annuity for that
  former spouse, shall be recomputed and paid, effective on the first day of
  the month beginning after such death or remarriage, as if the annuity had
  not been so reduced, unless an election is in effect under subparagraph (B).
  `(B) ELECTION OF SPOUSE ANNUITY- Subject to paragraph (4)(B), the participant
  may elect in writing within one year after receipt of notice of the death
  or remarriage of the former spouse to continue the reduction in order to
  provide a higher survivor annuity under section 221(b)(3) for any spouse
  of the participant.
  `(c) OPTIONAL ADDITIONAL SURVIVOR ANNUITIES FOR OTHER FORMER SPOUSE OR
  SURVIVING SPOUSE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of any participant providing a survivor
  annuity under subsection (b) for a former spouse--
  `(A) such participant may elect, or
  `(B) a spousal agreement or court order under section 264(b) may provide for,
an additional survivor annuity under this subsection for any other former
spouse or spouse surviving the participant, if the participant satisfactorily
passes a physical examination as prescribed by the Director.
  `(2) LIMITATION- Neither the total amount of survivor annuity or annuities
  under this subsection with respect to any participant,  nor the survivor
  annuity or annuities for any one surviving spouse or former spouse of
  such participant under this section or section 221, may exceed 55 percent
  of the unreduced amount of the participant's annuity, as computed under
  section 221(a).
  `(3) CONTRIBUTION FOR ADDITIONAL ANNUITIES-
  `(A) PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL SURVIVOR ANNUITY- In accordance with regulations
  which the Director shall prescribe, the participant involved may provide
  for any annuity under this subsection--
  `(i) by a reduction in the annuity or an allotment from the basic pay of
  the participant;
  `(ii) by a lump-sum payment or installment payments to the fund; or
  `(iii) by any combination thereof.
  `(B) ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENCE TO BENEFIT- The present value of the total amount
  to accrue to the fund under subparagraph (A) to provide any annuity under
  this subsection shall be actuarially equivalent in value to such annuity,
  as calculated upon such tables of mortality as may from time to time be
  prescribed for this purpose by the Director.
  `(C) EFFECT OF FORMER SPOUSE'S DEATH OR DISQUALIFICATION- If a former
  spouse predeceases the participant or remarries before attaining age 55
  (or, in the case of a spouse, the spouse predeceases or does not qualify
  as a former spouse upon dissolution of the marriage)--
  `(i) if an annuity reduction or pay allotment under subparagraph (A) is in
  effect for that spouse or former spouse, the annuity shall be recomputed
  and paid as if it had not been reduced or the pay allotment terminated,
  as the case may be; and
  `(ii) any amount accruing to the fund under subparagraph (A) shall be
  refunded, but only to the extent that such amount may have exceeded the
  actuarial cost of providing benefits under this subsection for the period
  such benefits were provided, as determined under regulations prescribed
  by the Director.
  `(D) RECOMPUTATION UPON DEATH OR REMARRIAGE OF FORMER SPOUSE- Under
  regulations prescribed by the Director, an annuity shall be recomputed
  (or a pay allotment terminated or adjusted), and a refund provided (if
  appropriate), in a manner comparable to that provided under subparagraph
  (C), in order to reflect a termination or reduction of future benefits
  under this subsection for a spouse in the event a former spouse of the
  participant dies or remarries before attaining age 55 and an increased
  annuity is provided for that spouse in accordance with this section.
  `(4) COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF ADDITIONAL SURVIVOR ANNUITY- An annuity
  payable under this subsection to a spouse or former spouse shall commence on
  the day after the participant dies and shall terminate on the last day of the
  month before the former spouse's death or remarriage before attaining age 55.
  `(5) NONAPPLICABILITY OF COLA PROVISION- Section 291 does not apply to
  an annuity under this subsection, unless authorized under regulations
  prescribed by the Director.
`SEC. 223. ELECTION OF SURVIVOR BENEFITS FOR CERTAIN FORMER SPOUSES DIVORCED
AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 1982.
  `(a) FORMER SPOUSES AS OF NOVEMBER 15, 1982- A participant, former
  participant, or retired participant in the system who on November 15,
  1982, had a former spouse may, by a spousal agreement, elect to receive
  a reduced annuity and provide a survivor annuity for such former spouse
  under section 222(b).
  `(b) TIME FOR MAKING ELECTION-
  `(1) If the participant or former participant has not retired under such
  system on or before November 15, 1982, an election under this section may
  be made at any time before retirement.
  `(2) If the participant or former participant has retired under such system
  on or before November 15, 1982, an election under this section may be made
  within such period after November 15, 1982, as the Director may prescribe.
  `(3) For the purposes of applying this title, any such election shall
  be treated in the same manner as if it were a spousal agreement under
  section 264(b).
  `(c) BASE FOR ANNUITY- An election under this section may provide for
  a survivor annuity based on all or any portion of that part of the
  annuity of the participant which is not designated or committed as a
  base for a survivor annuity for a spouse or any other former spouse of
  the participant. The participant and the participant's spouse may make an
  election under section 221(b)(1)(B) before the time of retirement for the
  purpose of allowing an election to be made under this section.
  `(d) REDUCTION IN PARTICIPANT'S ANNUITY-
  `(1) COMPUTATION- The amount of the reduction in the participant's annuity
  shall be determined in accordance with section 221(b)(2).
  `(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF REDUCTION- Such reduction shall be effective as of--
  `(A) the commencing date of the participant's annuity, in the case of an
  election under subsection (b)(1); or
  `(B) November 15, 1982, in the case of an election under subsection (b)(2).
`SEC. 224. SURVIVOR ANNUITY FOR CERTAIN OTHER FORMER SPOUSES.
  `(a) SURVIVOR ANNUITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- An individual who was a former spouse of a participant
  or retired participant on November 15, 1982, shall be entitled, except
  to the extent such former spouse is disqualified under subsection (b),
  to a survivor annuity equal to 55 percent of the greater of--
  `(A) the unreduced amount of the participant's or retired participant's
  annuity, as computed under section 221(a); or
  `(B) the unreduced amount of what such annuity as so computed would be
  if the participant, former participant, or retired participant had not
  elected payment of the lump-sum credit under section 294.
  `(2) REDUCTION IN SURVIVOR ANNUITY- A survivor annuity payable under this
  section shall be reduced by an amount equal to any survivor annuity payments
  made to the former spouse under section 223.
  `(b) LIMITATIONS- A former spouse is not entitled to a survivor annuity
  under this section if--
  `(1) the former spouse remarries before age 55, except that the entitlement
  of the former spouse to such a survivor annuity shall be restored on the
  date such remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce; or
  `(2) the former spouse is less than 50 years of age.
  `(c) COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF ANNUITY-
  `(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ANNUITY- The entitlement of a former spouse to a
  survivor annuity under this section shall commence--
  `(A) in the case of a former spouse of a participant or retired participant
  who is deceased as of October 1, 1986, beginning on the later of--
  `(i) the 60th day after such date; or
  `(ii) the date on which the former spouse reaches age 50; and
  `(B) in the case of any other former spouse, beginning on the latest of--
  `(i) the date on which the participant or former participant to whom the
  former spouse was married dies;
  `(ii) the 60th day after October 1, 1986; or
  `(iii) the date on which the former spouse attains age 50.
  `(2) TERMINATION OF ANNUITY- The entitlement of a former spouse to a
  survivor annuity under this section terminates on the last day of the month
  before the former spouse's death or remarriage before attaining age 55. The
  entitlement of a former spouse to such a survivor annuity shall be restored
  on the date such remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce.
  `(d) APPLICATION-
  `(1) TIME LIMIT; WAIVER- A survivor annuity under this section shall
  not be payable unless appropriate written application is provided to the
  Director, complete with any supporting documentation which the Director
  may by regulation require. Any such application shall be submitted not
  later than April 1, 1989. The Director may waive the application deadline
  under the preceding sentence in any case in which the Director determines
  that the circumstances warrant such a waiver.
  `(2) RETROACTIVE BENEFITS- Upon approval of an application provided under
  paragraph (1), the appropriate survivor annuity shall be payable to the
  former spouse with respect to all periods before such approval during
  which the former spouse was entitled to such annuity under this section,
  but in no event shall a survivor annuity be payable under this section
  with respect to any period before October 1, 1986.
  `(e) RESTORATION OF ANNUITY- Notwithstanding subsection (d)(1), the deadline
  by which an application for a survivor annuity must be submitted shall not
  apply in cases in which a former spouse's entitlement to such a survivor
  annuity is restored under subsection (b)(1) or (c)(2).
`SEC. 225. RETIREMENT ANNUITY FOR CERTAIN FORMER SPOUSES.
  `(a) RETIREMENT ANNUITY- An individual who was a former spouse of a
  participant, former participant, or retired participant on November 15,
  1982, and any former spouse divorced after November 15, 1982, from a
  participant or former participant who retired before November 15, 1982,
  shall be entitled, except to the extent such former spouse is disqualified
  under subsection (b), to an annuity--
  `(1) if married to the participant throughout the creditable service of
  the participant, equal to 50 percent of the annuity of the participant; or
  `(2) if not married to the participant throughout such creditable service,
  equal to that former spouse's pro rata share of 50 percent of such annuity.
  `(b) LIMITATIONS- A former spouse is not entitled to an annuity under this
  section if--
  `(1) the former spouse remarries before age 55, except that the entitlement
  of the former spouse to an annuity under this section shall be restored
  on the date such remarriage is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce; or
  `(2) the former spouse is less than 50 years of age.
  `(c) COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION-
  `(1) RETIREMENT ANNUITIES- The entitlement of a former spouse to an annuity
  under this section--
  `(A) shall commence on the later of--
  `(i) the day the participant upon whose service the right to the annuity
  is based becomes entitled to an annuity under this title;
  `(ii) the first day of the month in which the divorce or annulment involved
  becomes final; or
  `(iii) such former spouse's 50th birthday; and
  `(B) shall terminate on the earlier of--
  `(i) the last day of the month before the former spouse dies or remarries
  before 55 years of age, except that the entitlement of the former spouse to
  an annuity under this section shall be restored on the date such remarriage
  is dissolved by death, annulment, or divorce; or
  `(ii) the date on which the annuity of the participant terminates.
  `(2) DISABILITY ANNUITIES- Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(A)(i), in the
  case of a former spouse of a disability annuitant--
  `(A) the annuity of the former spouse shall commence on the date on which
  the participant would qualify on the basis of the participant's creditable
  service for an annuity under this title (other than disability annuity)
  or the date the disability annuity begins, whichever is later; and
  `(B) the amount of the annuity of the former spouse shall be calculated
  on the basis of the annuity for which the participant would otherwise
  so qualify.
  `(3) ELECTION OF BENEFITS- A former spouse of a participant or retired
  participant shall not become entitled under this section to an annuity or to
  the restoration of an annuity payable from the fund unless the former spouse
  elects to receive it instead of any other annuity to which the former spouse
  may be entitled under this or any other retirement system for Government
  employees on the basis of a marriage to someone other than the participant.
  `(4) APPLICATION-
  `(A) TIME LIMIT; WAIVER- An annuity under this section shall not be payable
  unless appropriate written application is provided to the Director,
  complete with any supporting documentation which the Director may by
  regulation require, not later than June 2, 1991. The Director may waive
  the application deadline under the preceding sentence in any case in which
  the Director determines that the circumstances warrant such a waiver.
  `(B) RETROACTIVE BENEFITS- Upon approval of an application under subparagraph
  (A), the appropriate annuity shall be payable to the former spouse with
  respect to all periods before such approval during which the former spouse
  was entitled to an annuity under this section, but in no event shall an
  annuity be payable under this section with respect to any period before
  December 2, 1987.
  `(d) RESTORATION OF ANNUITIES- Notwithstanding subsection (c)(4)(A),
  the deadline by which an application for a retirement annuity must be
  submitted shall not apply in cases in which a former spouse's entitlement
  to such annuity is restored under subsection (b)(1) or (c)(1)(B).
  `(e) SAVINGS PROVISION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to
  impair, reduce, or otherwise affect the annuity or the entitlement to an
  annuity of a participant or former participant under this title.
`SEC. 226. SURVIVOR ANNUITIES FOR PREVIOUS SPOUSES.
  `The Director shall prescribe regulations under which a previous spouse who
  is divorced after September 29, 1988, from a participant, former participant,
  or retired participant shall be eligible for a survivor annuity to the same
  extent and, to the greatest extent practicable, under the same conditions
  (including reductions to be made in the annuity of the participant)
  applicable to former spouses (as defined in section 8331(23) of title 5,
  United States Code) of participants in the Civil Service Retirement and
  Disability System (CSRS) as prescribed by the Civil Service Retirement
  Spouse Equity Act of 1984.
`Part D--Benefits Accruing to Certain Participants
`SEC. 231. RETIREMENT FOR DISABILITY OR INCAPACITY--MEDICAL
EXAMINATION--RECOVERY.
  `(a) DISABILITY RETIREMENT-
  `(1) ELIGIBILITY- A participant who has become disabled shall, upon the
  participant's own application or upon order of the Director, be retired
  on an annuity computed under subsection (b).
  `(2) STANDARD FOR DISABILITY DETERMINATION- A participant shall be considered
  to be disabled only if the participant--
  `(A) is found by the Director to be unable, because of disease or injury,
  to render useful and efficient service in the participant's position; and
  `(B) is not qualified for reassignment, under procedures prescribed by
  the Director, to a vacant position in the Agency at the same grade or
  level and in which the participant would be able to render useful and
  efficient service.
  `(3) TIME LIMIT FOR APPLICATION-
  `(A) ONE YEAR REQUIREMENT- A claim may be allowed under this section only
  if the application is submitted before the participant is separated from
  the Agency or within one year thereafter.
  `(B) WAIVER FOR MENTALLY INCOMPETENT PARTICIPANT- The time limitation may
  be waived by the Director for a participant who, at the date of separation
  from the Agency or within one year thereafter, is mentally incompetent,
  if the application is filed with the Agency within one year from the date
  of restoration of the participant to competency or the appointment of a
  fiduciary, whichever is earlier.
  `(b) COMPUTATION OF DISABILITY ANNUITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), an annuity payable
  under subsection (a) shall be computed under section 221(a). However, if
  the disabled or incapacitated participant has less than 20 years of service
  credit toward retirement under the system at the time of retirement, the
  annuity shall be computed on the assumption that the participant has had
  20 years of service, but the additional service credit that may accrue to
  a participant under this paragraph may not exceed the difference between
  the participant's age at the time of retirement and age 60.
  `(2) COORDINATION WITH MILITARY RETIRED PAY AND VETERANS' COMPENSATION
  AND PENSION- If a participant retiring under this section is receiving
  retired pay or retainer pay for military service (except that specified
  in section 252(e)(3)) or Department of Veterans Affairs compensation or
  pension in lieu of such retired or retainer pay, the annuity of that
  participant shall be computed under section 221(a), excluding credit
  for such military service from that computation. If the amount of the
  annuity so computed, plus the retired or retainer pay which is received,
  or which would be received but for the application of the limitation in
  section 5532 of title 5, United States Code, or the Department of Veterans
  Affairs compensation or pension in lieu of such retired or retainer pay,
  is less than the annuity that would be payable under this section in the
  absence of the previous sentence, an amount equal to the difference shall
  be added to the annuity payable under section 221(a).
  `(c) MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS-
  `(1) MEDICAL EXAMINATION REQUIRED FOR DETERMINATION OF DISABILITY- In
  each case, the participant shall be given a medical examination by one or
  more duly qualified physicians or surgeons designated by the Director to
  conduct examinations, and disability shall be determined by the Director
  on the basis of the advice of such physicians or surgeons.
  `(2) ANNUAL REEXAMINATIONS UNTIL AGE 60- Unless the disability is permanent,
  like examinations shall be made annually until the annuitant becomes age
  60. If the Director determines on the basis of the advice of one or more
  duly qualified physicians or surgeons conducting such examinations that
  an annuitant has recovered to the extent that the annuitant can return to
  duty, the annuitant may apply for reinstatement or reappointment in the
  Agency within one year from the date the annuitant's recovery is determined.
  `(3) REINSTATEMENT- Upon application, the Director may reinstate any such
  recovered disability annuitant in the grade held at time of retirement,
  or the Director may, taking into consideration the age, qualifications,
  and experience of such annuitant, and the present grade of the annuitant's
  contemporaries in the Agency, appoint the annuitant to a grade higher than
  the one held before retirement.
  `(4) TERMINATION OF DISABILITY ANNUITY- Payment of the annuity shall continue
  until a date one year after the date of examination showing recovery or
  until the date of reinstatement or reappointment in the Agency, whichever
  is earlier.
  `(5) PAYMENT OF FEES- Fees for examinations under this subsection, together
  with reasonable traveling and other expenses incurred in order to submit
  to examination, may be paid out of the fund.
  `(6) SUSPENSION OF ANNUITY PENDING REQUIRED EXAMINATION- If the annuitant
  fails to submit to examination as required under this section, payment
  of the annuity shall be suspended until continuance of the disability is
  satisfactorily established.
  `(7) TERMINATION OF ANNUITY UPON RESTORATION OF EARNING CAPACITY- If the
  annuitant receiving a disability retirement annuity is restored to earning
  capacity before becoming age 60, payment of the annuity terminates on
  reemployment by the Government or 180 days after the end of the calendar
  year in which earning capacity is restored, whichever is earlier. Earning
  capacity shall be considered to be restored if in any calendar year the
  income of the annuitant from wages or self-employment, or both, equals
  at least 80 percent of the current rate of pay for the grade and step the
  annuitant held at the time of retirement.
  `(d) TREATMENT OF RECOVERED DISABILITY ANNUITANT WHO IS NOT REINSTATED-
  `(1) SEPARATION- If a recovered or restored disability annuitant whose
  annuity is discontinued is for any reason not reinstated or reappointed in
  the Agency, the annuitant shall be considered, except for service credit,
  to have been separated within the meaning of section 234 as of the date
  of termination of the disability annuity.
  `(2) RETIREMENT- After such termination, the recovered or restored annuitant
  shall be entitled to the benefits of section 234 or 241(b), except that the
  annuitant may elect voluntary retirement under section 233, if qualified
  thereunder, or may be placed by the Director in an involuntary retirement
  status under section 235(a), if qualified thereunder. Retirement rights
  under this paragraph shall be based on the provisions of this title in
  effect as of the date on which the disability annuity is discontinued.
  `(3) FURTHER DISABILITY BEFORE AGE 62- If, based on a current medical
  examination, the Director determines that a recovered annuitant has, before
  reaching age 62, again become totally disabled due to recurrence of the
  disability for which the annuitant was originally retired, the annuitant's
  terminated disability annuity (same type and rate) shall be reinstated from
  the date of such medical examination. If a restored-to-earning-capacity
  annuitant has not medically recovered from the disability for which retired
  and establishes to the Director's satisfaction that the annuitant's income
  from wages and self-employment in any calendar year before reaching age
  62 was less than 80 percent of the rate of pay for the grade and step
  the annuitant held at the time of retirement, the annuitant's terminated
  disability annuity (same type and rate) shall be reinstated from the first
  of the next following year. If the annuitant has been allowed an involuntary
  or voluntary retirement annuity in the meantime, the annuitant's reinstated
  disability annuity shall be substituted for it unless the annuitant elects
  to retain the former benefit.
  `(e) COORDINATION OF BENEFITS-
  `(1) WORKERS' COMPENSATION- A participant is not entitled to receive for
  the same period of time--
  `(A) an annuity under this title, and
  `(B) compensation for injury to, or disability of, such participant under
  subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, other than
  compensation payable under section 8107 of such title.
  `(2) SURVIVOR ANNUITIES- An individual is not entitled to receive an annuity
  under this title and a concurrent benefit under subchapter I of chapter 81
  of title 5, United States Code, on account of the death of the same person.
  `(3) GREATER BENEFIT- Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not bar the right of a
  claimant to the greater benefit conferred by either this title or subchapter
  I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(f) OFFSET FROM SURVIVOR ANNUITY FOR WORKERS' COMPENSATION PAYMENT-
  `(1) REFUND TO DEPARTMENT OF LABOR- If an individual is entitled to an
  annuity under this title and the individual receives a lump-sum payment for
  compensation under section 8135 of title 5, United States Code, based on
  the disability or death of the same person, so much of the compensation as
  has been paid for a period extended beyond the date payment of the annuity
  commences, as determined by the Secretary of Labor, shall be refunded to
  the Department for credit to the Employees' Compensation Fund. Before the
  individual may receive the annuity, the individual shall--
  `(A) refund to the Secretary of Labor the amount representing the commuted
  compensation payments for the extended period; or
  `(B) authorize the deduction of the amount from the annuity.
  `(2) SOURCE OF DEDUCTION- Deductions from the annuity may be made from
  accrued or accruing payments. The amounts deducted and withheld from the
  annuity shall be transmitted to the Secretary for reimbursement to the
  Employees' Compensation Fund.
  `(3) PRORATING DEDUCTION- If the Secretary finds that the financial
  circumstances of an individual entitled to an annuity under this title
  warrant deferred refunding, deductions from the annuity may be prorated
  against and paid from accruing payments in such manner as the Secretary
  determines appropriate.
`SEC. 232. DEATH IN SERVICE.
  `(a) RETURN OF CONTRIBUTIONS WHEN NO ANNUITY PAYABLE- If a participant dies
  and no claim for an annuity is payable under this title, the participant's
  lump-sum credit and any voluntary contributions made under section 281, with
  interest, shall be paid in the order of precedence shown in section 241(c).
  `(b) SURVIVOR ANNUITY FOR SURVIVING SPOUSE OR FORMER SPOUSE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If a participant dies before separation or retirement from
  the Agency and is survived by a spouse or by a former spouse qualifying
  for a survivor annuity under section 222(b), such surviving spouse shall
  be entitled to an annuity equal to 55 percent of the annuity computed in
  accordance with paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection and section
  221(a), and any such surviving former spouse shall be entitled to an
  annuity computed in accordance with section 222(b) and paragraph (2) of this
  subsection as if the participant died after being entitled to an annuity
  under this title. The annuity of such surviving spouse or former spouse
  shall commence on the day after the participant dies and shall terminate on
  the last day of the month before the death or remarriage before attaining
  age 55 of the surviving spouse or former spouse (subject to the payment
  and restoration provisions of sections 221(b)(3)(C), 221(h), and 222(b)(3)).
  `(2) COMPUTATION- The annuity payable under paragraph (1) shall be computed
  in accordance with section 221(a), except that the computation of the annuity
  of the participant under such section shall be at least the smaller of (A)
  40 percent of the participant's high-3 average pay, or (B) the sum obtained
  under such section after increasing the participant's length of service by
  the difference between the participant's age at the time of death and age 60.
  `(3) LIMITATION- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), if the participant had a
  former spouse qualifying for an annuity under section 222(b), the annuity
  of a surviving spouse under this section shall be subject to the limitation
  of section 221(b)(3)(B), and the annuity of a former spouse under this
  section shall be subject to the limitation of section 222(b)(4)(B).
  `(4) PRECEDENCE OF SECTION 224 SURVIVOR ANNUITY OVER DEATH-IN-SERVICE
  ANNUITY- If a former spouse who is eligible for a death-in-service annuity
  under this section is or becomes eligible for an annuity under section 222,
  the annuity provided under this section shall not be payable and shall be
  superseded by the annuity under section 224.
  `(c) ANNUITIES FOR SURVIVING CHILDREN-
  `(1) PARTICIPANTS DYING BEFORE APRIL 1, 1992- In the case of a participant
  who before April 1, 1992, died before separation or retirement from the
  Agency and who was survived by a child or children--
  `(A) if the participant was survived by a spouse, there shall be paid from
  the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity determined
  under section 221(d)(3)(A); and
  `(B) if the participant was not survived by a spouse, there shall be paid
  from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity
  determined under section 221(d)(3)(B).
  `(2) PARTICIPANTS DYING ON OR AFTER APRIL 1, 1992- In the case of a
  participant who on or after April 1, 1992, dies before separation or
  retirement from the Agency and who is survived by a child or children--
  `(A) if the participant is survived by a spouse or former spouse who is
  the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant,
  there shall be paid from the fund to or on behalf of each such surviving
  child an annuity determined under section 221(d)(3)(A); and
  `(B) if the participant is not survived by a spouse or former spouse who
  is the natural or adoptive parent of a surviving child of the participant,
  there shall be paid to or on behalf of each such surviving child an annuity
  determined under section 221(d)(3)(B).
  `(3) FORMER SPOUSE DEFINED- For purposes of this subsection, the term
  `former spouse' includes any former wife or husband of a participant,
  regardless of the length of marriage or the amount of creditable service
  completed by the participant.
`SEC. 233. VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT.
  `A participant who is at least 50 years of age and has completed 20 years
  of service may, on the participant's application and with the consent of
  the Director, be retired from the Agency and receive benefits in accordance
  with the provisions of section 221 if the participant has not less than
  10 years of service with the Agency.
`SEC. 234. DISCONTINUED SERVICE BENEFITS.
  `(a) DEFERRED ANNUITY- A participant who separates from the Agency may,
  upon separation or at any time before the commencement of an annuity under
  this title, elect--
  `(1) to have the participant's contributions to the fund returned to the
  participant in accordance with section 241(a); or
  `(2) except in a case in which the Director determines that separation
  was based in whole or in part on the ground of disloyalty to the United
  States, to leave the contributions in the fund and receive an annuity,
  computed as prescribed in section 221, commencing at age 62.
  `(b) REFUND OF CONTRIBUTIONS IF FORMER PARTICIPANT DIES BEFORE AGE 62-
  If a participant who qualifies under subsection (a) to receive a deferred
  annuity commencing at age 62 dies before reaching age 62, the participant's
  contributions to the fund, with interest, shall be paid in accordance with
  the provisions of sections 241 and 281.
`SEC. 235. MANDATORY RETIREMENT.
  `(a) INVOLUNTARY RETIREMENT-
  `(1) AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR- The Director may, in the Director's discretion,
  place in a retired status any participant in the system described in
  paragraph (2).
  `(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to any participant who has not
  less than 10 years of service with the Agency and who--
  `(A) has completed at least 25 years of service; or
  `(B) is at least 50 years of age and has completed at least 20 years
  of service.
  `(b) MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR AGE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- A participant in the system shall be automatically retired
  from the Agency--
  `(A) upon reaching age 65, in the case of a participant in the system
  receiving compensation under the Senior Intelligence Service pay schedule
  at the rate of level 4 or above; and
  `(B) upon reaching age 60, in the case of any other participant in the
  system.
  `(2) EFFECTIVE DATE OF RETIREMENT- Retirement under paragraph (1) shall
  be effective on the last day of the month in which the participant reaches
  the age applicable to that participant under that paragraph.
  `(3) AUTHORITY FOR EXTENSION- In any case in which the Director determines
  it to be in the public interest, the Director may extend the mandatory
  retirement date for a participant under this subsection by a period of
  not to exceed 5 years.
  `(c) RETIREMENT BENEFITS- A participant retired under this section shall
  receive retirement benefits in accordance with section 221.
`SEC. 236. ELIGIBILITY FOR ANNUITY.
  `(a) ONE-OUT-OF-TWO REQUIREMENT- A participant must complete, within the
  last two years before any separation from service (except a separation
  because of death or disability) at least one year of creditable civilian
  service during which the participant is subject to this title and in a pay
  status before the participant or the participant's survivors are eligible
  for an annuity under this title based on that separation.
  `(b) REFUND OF CONTRIBUTIONS FOR TIME NOT ALLOWED FOR CREDIT- If a
  participant (other than a participant separated from the service because of
  death or disability) fails to meet the service and pay status requirement
  of subsection (a), any amounts deducted from the participant's pay during
  the period for which no eligibility is established based on the separation
  shall be returned to the participant on the separation.
  `(c) EXCEPTION- Failure to meet the service and pay status requirement
  of subsection (a) shall not deprive the participant or the participant's
  survivors of any annuity to which they may be entitled under this title
  based on a previous separation.
`Part E--Lump-Sum Payments
`SEC. 241. LUMP-SUM PAYMENTS.
  `(a) ENTITLEMENT TO LUMP-SUM CREDIT- Subject to section 252(d) and subsection
  (b) of this section, a participant who--
  `(1) is separated from the Agency for at least 31 consecutive days and
  is not transferred to employment covered by another retirement system for
  Government employees;
  `(2) files an application with the Director for payment of the lump-sum
  credit;
  `(3) is not reemployed in a position in which the participant is subject
  to this title at the time the participant files the application; and
  `(4) will not become eligible to receive an annuity under this title within
  31 days after filing the application,
is entitled to be paid the lump-sum credit. Receipt of the payment of the
lump-sum credit by the former participant voids all annuity rights under
this title based on the service on which the lump-sum credit is based,
until the former participant is reemployed in service subject to this title.
  `(b) CONDITIONS FOR PAYMENT OF LUMP-SUM CREDIT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Whenever a former participant becomes entitled to receive
  payment of the lump-sum credit under subsection (a), such lump-sum credit
  shall be paid to the former participant and to any former spouse or former
  wife or husband of the former participant in accordance with paragraphs (2)
  through (4). The former participant's lump-sum credit shall be reduced by
  the amount of the lump-sum credit payable to any former spouse or former
  wife or husband.
  `(2) PRO RATA SHARE FOR FORMER SPOUSE- Unless otherwise expressly provided
  by any spousal agreement or court order under section 264(b), a former
  spouse of the former participant shall be entitled to receive a share of
  such participant's lump-sum credit--
  `(A) if married to the participant throughout the period of creditable
  service of the participant, equal to 50 percent of such lump-sum credit; or
  `(B) if not married to the participant throughout such creditable service,
  equal to a proportion of 50 percent of such lump-sum credit which is the
  proportion that the number of days of the marriage of the former spouse to
  the participant during periods of creditable service of such participant
  bears to the total number of days of such creditable service.
  `(3) SHARE FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND- Payment of the former participant's
  lump-sum credit shall be subject to the terms of a court order under section
  264(c) concerning any former wife or husband of the former participant if--
  `(A) the court order expressly relates to any portion of such lump-sum
  credit; and
  `(B) payment of the lump-sum credit would extinguish entitlement of such
  former wife or husband to a survivor annuity under section 226 or to any
  portion of the participant's annuity under section 264(c).
  `(4) NOTIFICATION- A lump-sum credit may be paid to or for the benefit of
  a former participant--
  `(A) only upon written notification to (i) the current spouse, if any,
  (ii) any former spouse, and (iii) any former wife or husband who has a
  court order covered by paragraph (3); and
  `(B) only if the express written concurrence of the current spouse has
  been received by the Director.
This paragraph may be waived under circumstances described in section
221(b)(1)(D).
  `(c) ORDER OF PRECEDENCE OF PAYMENT- A lump-sum benefit that would have
  been payable to a participant, former participant, or annuitant, or to a
  survivor annuitant, authorized by subsection (d) or (e) of this section
  or by section 234(b) or 281(d) shall be paid in the following order of
  precedence to individuals surviving the participant and alive on the date
  entitlement to the payment arises, upon establishment of a valid claim
  therefor, and such payment bars recovery by any other individual:
  `(1) To the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by such participant
  in a signed and witnessed writing received by the Director before
  the participant's death. For this purpose, a designation, change, or
  cancellation of beneficiary in a will or other document not so executed
  and filed with the Director shall have no force or effect.
  `(2) If there is no designated beneficiary, to the surviving wife or
  husband of such participant.
  `(3) If none of the above, to the child or children of such participant
  and descendent of deceased children by representation.
  `(4) If none of the above, to the parents of such participant or the
  survivor of them.
  `(5) If none of the above, to the duly appointed executor or administrator
  of the estate of such participant.
  `(6) If none of the above, to such other next of kin of such participant
  as the Director determines to be legally entitled to such payment.
  `(d) DEATH OF FORMER PARTICIPANT BEFORE RETIREMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), if a former participant
  eligible for a deferred annuity under section 234 dies before reaching age
  62, such former participant's lump-sum credit shall be paid in accordance
  with subsection (c).
  `(2) LIMITATION- In any case where there is a surviving former spouse or
  surviving former wife or husband of such participant who is entitled to
  a share of such participant's lump-sum credit under paragraphs (2) and
  (3) of subsection (b), the lump-sum credit payable under paragraph (1)
  shall be reduced by the lump-sum credit payable to such former spouse or
  former wife or husband.
  `(e) TERMINATION OF ALL ANNUITY RIGHTS- If all annuity rights under this
  title based on the service of a deceased participant or annuitant terminate
  before the total annuity paid equals the lump-sum credit, the difference
  shall be paid in accordance with subsection (c).
  `(f) TERMINATION OF SURVIVOR ANNUITY- An annuity accrued and unpaid on the
  termination, except by death, of the annuity of a survivor annuitant shall
  be paid to that individual. An annuity accrued and unpaid on the death of
  a survivor annuitant shall be paid in the following order of precedence,
  and the payment bars recovery by any other individual:
  `(1) To the duly appointed executor or administrator of the estate of the
  survivor annuitant.
  `(2) If there is no executor or administrator, to such next of kin of the
  survivor annuitant as the Director determines to be legally entitled to
  such payment, except that no payment shall be made under this paragraph
  until after the expiration of 30 days from the date of death of the
  survivor annuitant.
`Part F--Period of Service for Annuities
`SEC. 251. COMPUTATION OF LENGTH OF SERVICE.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) CREDITING SERVICE AS PARTICIPANT- For the purposes of this title,
  the period of service of a participant shall be computed from the date on
  which the participant becomes a participant under this title.
  `(2) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN PERIODS- In computing the period of service of a
  participant, all periods of separation from the Agency and so much of any
  leave of absence without pay as may exceed six months in the aggregate
  in any calendar year shall be excluded, except leaves of absence while
  receiving benefits under chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code,
  and leaves of absence granted participants while performing active and
  honorable service in the Armed Forces.
  `(3) CREDITING CERTAIN PERIODS OF SEPARATION- A participant or former
  participant who returns to Government duty after a period of separation
  shall have included in the participant or former participant's period of
  service that part of the period of separation in which the participant
  or former participant was receiving benefits under chapter 81 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(b) EXTRA CREDIT FOR PERIODS SERVED AT UNHEALTHFUL POSTS OVERSEAS-
  `(1) CLASSIFICATION OF CERTAIN POSTS AS UNHEALTHFUL- The Director may from
  time to time establish a list of places outside the United States that,
  by reason of climatic or other extreme conditions, are to be classed as
  unhealthful posts. Such list shall be established in consultation with
  the Secretary of State.
  `(2) EXTRA CREDIT- Each year of duty at a post on the list established under
  paragraph (1), inclusive of regular leaves of absence, shall be counted as
  one and a half years in computing the length of service of a participant
  under this title for the purpose of retirement. In computing such service,
  any fractional month shall be treated as a full month.
  `(3) COORDINATION WITH BENEFITS UNDER TITLE 5- Extra credit for service
  at an unhealthful post may not be credited to a participant who is paid
  a differential under section 5925 or 5928 of title 5, United States Code,
  for the same service.
`SEC. 252. PRIOR SERVICE CREDIT.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- A participant may, subject to the provisions of this
  section, include in the participant's period of service--
  `(1) civilian service in the Government before becoming a participant that
  would be creditable toward retirement under subchapter III of chapter
  83 of title 5, United States Code (as determined under section 8332(b)
  of such title); and
  `(2) honorable active service in the Armed Forces before the date of the
  separation upon which eligibility for an annuity is based, or honorable
  active service in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service
  after June 30, 1960, or as a commissioned officer of the National Oceanic
  and Atmospheric Administration after June 30, 1961.
  `(b) LIMITATIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), the total
  service of any participant shall exclude--
  `(A) any period of civilian service on or after October 1, 1982, for which
  retirement deductions or deposits have not been made,
  `(B) any period of service for which a refund of contributions has been
  made, or
  `(C) any period of service for which contributions were not transferred
  pursuant to subsection (c)(1);
unless the participant makes a deposit to the fund in an amount equal to
the percentages of basic pay received for such service as specified in the
table contained in section 8334(c) of title 5, United States Code, together
with interest computed in accordance with section 8334(e) of such title. The
deposit may be made in one or more installments (including by allotment from
pay), as determined by the Director.
  `(2) EFFECT OF RETIREMENT DEDUCTIONS NOT MADE- If a participant has not
  paid a deposit for civilian service performed before October 1, 1982,
  for which retirement deductions were not made, such participant's annuity
  shall be reduced by 10 percent of the deposit described in paragraph (1)
  remaining unpaid, unless the participant elects to eliminate the service
  involved for the purpose of the annuity computation.
  `(3) EFFECT OF REFUND OF RETIREMENT CONTRIBUTIONS- A participant who
  received a refund of retirement contributions under this or any other
  retirement system for Government employees covering service for which the
  participant may be allowed credit under this title may deposit the amount
  received, with interest computed under paragraph (1). Credit may not be
  allowed for the service covered by the refund until the deposit is made,
  except that a participant who--
  `(A) separated from Government service before October 1, 1990, and received
  a refund of the participant's retirement contributions covering a period
  of service ending before October 1, 1990;
  `(B) is entitled to an annuity under this title (other than a disability
  annuity) which commences after December 1, 1992; and
  `(C) does not make the deposit required to receive credit for the service
  covered by the refund;
shall be entitled to an annuity actuarially reduced in accordance with
section 8334(d)(2)(B) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(4) ENTITLEMENT UNDER ANOTHER SYSTEM- Credit toward retirement under
  the system shall not be allowed for any period of civilian service on
  the basis of which the participant is receiving (or will in the future
  be entitled to receive) an annuity under another retirement system for
  Government employees, unless the right to such annuity is waived and
  a deposit is made under paragraph (1) covering that period of service,
  or a transfer is made pursuant to subsection (c).
  `(c) TRANSFER FROM OTHER GOVERNMENT RETIREMENT SYSTEMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If an employee who is under another retirement system
  for Government employees becomes a participant in the system by direct
  transfer, the Government's contributions (including interest accrued
  thereon computed in accordance with section 8334(e) of title 5, United
  States Code) under such retirement system on behalf of the employee as well
  as such employee's total contributions and deposits (including interest
  accrued thereon), except voluntary contributions, shall be transferred to
  the employee's credit in the fund effective as of the date such employee
  becomes a participant in the system.
  `(2) CONSENT OF EMPLOYEE- Each such employee shall be deemed to consent
  to the transfer of such funds, and such transfer shall be a complete
  discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands against the other
  Government retirement fund on account of service rendered before becoming
  a participant in the system.
  `(3) ADDITIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS; REFUNDS- A participant whose contributions
  are transferred pursuant to paragraph (1) shall not be required to make
  additional contributions for periods of service for which full contributions
  were made to the other Government retirement fund, nor shall any refund
  be made to any such participant on account of contributions made during
  any period to the other Government retirement fund at a higher rate than
  that fixed for employees by section 8334(c) of title 5, United States Code,
  for contributions to the fund.
  `(d) TRANSFER TO OTHER GOVERNMENT RETIREMENT SYSTEMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If a participant in the system becomes an employee under
  another Government retirement system by direct transfer to employment
  covered by such system, the Government's contributions (including interest
  accrued thereon computed in accordance with section 8334(e) of title 5,
  United States Code) to the fund on the participant's behalf as well as
  the participant's total contributions and deposits (including interest
  accrued thereon), except voluntary contributions, shall be transferred
  to the participant's credit in the fund of such other retirement system
  effective as of the date on which the participant becomes eligible to
  participate in such other retirement system.
  `(2) CONSENT OF EMPLOYEE- Each such employee shall be deemed to consent
  to the transfer of such funds, and such transfer shall be a complete
  discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands against the fund on
  account of service rendered before the participant's becoming eligible
  for participation in that other system.
  `(e) PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE CREDIT-
  `(1) APPLICATION TO OBTAIN CREDIT- If a deposit required to obtain credit
  for prior military service described in subsection (a)(2) was not made to
  another Government retirement fund and transferred under subsection (c)(1),
  the participant may obtain credit for such military service, subject to the
  provisions of this subsection and subsections (f) through (h), by applying
  for it to the Director before retirement or separation from the Agency.
  `(2) EMPLOYMENT STARTING BEFORE, ON, OR AFTER OCTOBER 1, 1982- Except as
  provided in paragraph (3)--
  `(A) the service of a participant who first became a Federal employee
  before October 1, 1982, shall include credit for each period of military
  service performed before the date of separation on which entitlement to
  an annuity under this title is based, subject to section 252(f); and
  `(B) the service of a participant who first becomes a Federal employee on
  or after October 1, 1982, shall include credit for--
  `(i) each period of military service performed before January 1, 1957, and
  `(ii) each period of military service performed after December 31, 1956,
  and before the separation on which entitlement to an annuity under this
  title is based, only if a deposit (with interest, if any) is made with
  respect to that period, as provided in subsection (h).
  `(3) EFFECT OF RECEIPT OF MILITARY RETIRED PAY- In the case of a participant
  who is entitled to retired pay based on a period of military service, the
  participant's service may not include credit for such period of military
  service unless the retired pay is paid--
  `(A) on account of a service-connected disability--
  `(i) incurred in combat with an enemy of the United States; or
  `(ii) caused by an instrumentality of war and incurred in the line of
  duty during a period of war (as defined in section 1101 of title 38,
  United States Code); or
  `(B) under chapter 67 of title 10, United States Code.
  `(4) SURVIVOR ANNUITY- Notwithstanding paragraph (3), the survivor annuity
  of a survivor of a participant--
  `(A) who was awarded retired pay based on any period of military service, and
  `(B) whose death occurs before separation from the Agency,
shall be computed in accordance with section 8332(c)(3) of title 5, United
States Code.
  `(f) EFFECT OF ENTITLEMENT TO SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of this section (except
  paragraph (3) of this subsection) or section 253, any military service
  (other than military service covered by military leave with pay from a
  civilian position) performed by a participant after December 1956 shall be
  excluded in determining the aggregate period of service on which an annuity
  payable under this title to such participant or to the participant's spouse,
  former spouse, previous spouse, or child is based, if such participant,
  spouse, former spouse, previous spouse, or child is entitled (or would
  upon proper application be entitled), at the time of such determination,
  to monthly old-age or survivors' insurance benefits under section 202 of the
  Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 402), based on such participant's wages and
  self-employment income. If the military service is not excluded under the
  preceding sentence, but upon attaining age 62, the participant or spouse,
  former spouse, or previous spouse becomes entitled (or would upon proper
  application be entitled) to such benefits, the aggregate period of service
  on which the annuity is based shall be redetermined, effective as of the
  first day of the month in which the participant or spouse, former spouse,
  or previous spouse attains age 62, so as to exclude such service.
  `(2) LIMITATION- The provisions of paragraph (1) relating to credit for
  military service do not apply to--
  `(A) any period of military service of a participant with respect to which
  the participant has made a deposit with interest, if any, under subsection
  (h); or
  `(B) the military service of any participant described in subsection
  (e)(2)(B).
  `(3) EFFECT OF ENTITLEMENT BEFORE SEPTEMBER 8, 1982- (A) The annuity
  recomputation required by paragraph (1) shall not apply to any participant
  who was entitled to an annuity under this title on or before September 8,
  1982, or who is entitled to a deferred annuity based on separation from the
  Agency occurring on or before such date. Instead of an annuity recomputation,
  the annuity of such participant shall be reduced at age 62 by an amount
  equal to a fraction of the participant's old-age or survivors' insurance
  benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act. The reduction shall
  be determined by multiplying the participant's monthly Social Security
  benefit by a fraction, the numerator of which is the participant's total
  military wages and deemed additional wages (within the meaning of section
  229 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 429)) that were subject to Social
  Security deductions and the denominator of which is the total of all the
  participant's wages, including military wages, and all self-employment
  income that were subject to Social Security deductions before the calendar
  year in which the determination month occurs.
  `(B) The reduction determined in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall
  not be greater than the reduction that would be required under paragraph
  (1) if such paragraph applied to the participant. The new formula shall be
  applicable to any annuity payment payable after October 1, 1982, including
  annuity payments to participants who had previously reached age 62 and
  whose annuities had already been recomputed.
  `(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term `determination month' means--
  `(i) the first month for which the participant is entitled to old-age or
  survivors' insurance benefits (or would be entitled to such benefits upon
  application therefor); or
  `(ii) October 1982, in the case of any participant entitled to such benefits
  for that month.
  `(g) DEPOSITS PAID BY SURVIVORS- For the purpose of survivor annuities,
  deposits authorized by subsections (b) and (h) may also be made by the
  survivor of a participant.
  `(h) DEPOSITS FOR PERIODS OF MILITARY SERVICE-
  `(1) Each participant who has performed military service before the date of
  separation on which entitlement to an annuity under this title is based may
  pay to the Agency an amount equal to 7 percent of the amount of basic pay
  paid under section 204 of title 37, United States Code, to the participant
  for each period of military service after December 1956. The amount of
  such payments shall be based on such evidence of basic pay for military
  service as the participant may provide or, if the Director determines
  sufficient evidence has not been provided to adequately determine basic
  pay for military service, such payment shall be based upon estimates of
  such basic pay provided to the Director under paragraph (4).
  `(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) more than two years after the
  later of--
  `(A) October 1, 1983, or
  `(B) the date on which the participant making the deposit first becomes
  an employee of the Federal Government,
shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually
beginning on the date of expiration of the two-year period. The interest rate
that is applicable in computing interest in any year under this paragraph
shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable for such year under
section 8334(e) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(3) Any payment received by the Director under this subsection shall be
  deposited in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the fund.
  `(4) The provisions of section 221(k) shall apply with respect to such
  information as the Director determines to be necessary for the administration
  of this subsection in the same manner that such section applies concerning
  information described in that section.
`SEC. 253. CREDIT FOR SERVICE WHILE ON MILITARY LEAVE.
  `(a) GENERAL RULE- A participant who, during the period of any war or
  of any national emergency as proclaimed by the President or declared by
  the Congress, leaves the participant's position in the Agency to enter
  military service shall not be considered, for purposes of this title, as
  separated from the participant's position in the Agency by reason of such
  military service, unless the participant applies for and receives a refund
  of contributions under this title. Such a participant may not be considered
  as retaining such position in the Agency after December 31, 1956, or upon
  the expiration of five years of such military service, whichever is later.
  `(b) WAIVER OF CONTRIBUTIONS- Except to the extent provided under section
  252(e) or 252(h), contributions shall not be required covering periods of
  leave of absence from the Agency granted a participant while performing
  active service in the Armed Forces.
`Part G--Moneys
`SEC. 261. ESTIMATE OF APPROPRIATIONS NEEDED.
  `(a) ESTIMATES OF ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS- The Director shall prepare the
  estimates of the annual appropriations required to be made to the fund.
  `(b) ACTUARIAL VALUATIONS- The Director shall cause to be made actuarial
  valuations of the fund at such intervals as the Director determines to be
  necessary, but not less often than every five years.
  `(c) CHANGES IN LAW AFFECTING ACTUARIAL STATUS OF FUND- Any statute which
  authorizes--
  `(1) new or increased benefits payable from the fund under this title,
  including annuity increases other than under section 291;
  `(2) extension of the coverage of this title to new groups of employees; or
  `(3) increases in pay on which benefits are computed;
is deemed to authorize appropriations to the fund in order to provide
funding for the unfunded liability created by that statute, in 30 equal
annual installments with interest computed at the rate used in the then
most recent valuation of the system and with the first payment thereof due
as of the end of the fiscal year in which such new or liberalized benefit,
extension of coverage, or increase in pay is effective.
  `(d) AUTHORIZATION- There is hereby authorized to be appropriated to the
  fund for each fiscal year such amounts as may be necessary to meet the
  amount of normal cost for each year that is not met by contributions under
  section 211(a).
  `(e) UNFUNDED LIABILITY; CREDIT ALLOWED FOR MILITARY SERVICE- There is
  hereby authorized to be appropriated to the fund for each fiscal year such
  sums as may be necessary to provide the amount equivalent to--
  `(1) interest on the unfunded liability computed for that year at the
  interest rate used in the then most recent valuation of the system; and
  `(2) that portion of disbursement for annuities for that year that the
  Director estimates is attributable to credit allowed for military service,
less an amount determined by the Director to be appropriate to reflect the
value of the deposits made to the credit of the fund under section 252(h).
`SEC. 262. INVESTMENT OF MONEYS IN THE FUND.
  `The Director may, with the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury,
  invest from time to time in interest-bearing securities of the United
  States such portions of the fund as in the Director's judgment may not be
  immediately required for the payment of annuities, cash benefits, refunds,
  and allowances from the fund. The income derived from such investments
  shall be credited to and constitute a part of the fund.
`SEC. 263. PAYMENT OF BENEFITS.
  `(a) ANNUITIES STATED AS ANNUAL AMOUNTS- Each annuity is stated as an annual
  amount,  1/12  of which, rounded to the next lowest dollar, constitutes
  the monthly rate payable on the first business day of the month after the
  month or other period for which it has accrued.
  `(b) COMMENCEMENT OF ANNUITY-
  `(1) COMMENCEMENT OF ANNUITY FOR PARTICIPANTS GENERALLY- Except as otherwise
  provided in paragraph (2), the annuity of a participant who has met the
  eligibility requirements for an annuity shall commence on the first day
  of the month after separation from the Agency or after pay ceases and the
  service and age requirements for title to an annuity are met.
  `(2) EXCEPTIONS- The annuity of--
  `(A) a participant involuntarily separated from the Agency;
  `(B) a participant retiring under section 231 due to a disability; and
  `(C) a participant who serves 3 days or less in the month of retirement;
shall commence on the day after separation from the Agency or the day after
pay ceases and the service and age or disability requirements for title to
annuity are met.
  `(3) OTHER ANNUITIES- Any other annuity payable from the fund commences
  on the first day of the month after the occurrence of the event on which
  payment thereof is based.
  `(c) TERMINATION OF ANNUITY- An annuity payable from the fund shall
  terminate--
  `(1) in the case of a retired participant, on the day death or any other
  terminating event provided by this title occurs; or
  `(2) in the case of a former spouse or a survivor, on the last day of the
  month before death or any other terminating event occurs.
  `(d) APPLICATION FOR SURVIVOR ANNUITIES- The annuity to a survivor shall
  become effective as otherwise specified but shall not be paid until the
  survivor submits an application for such annuity, supported by such proof
  of eligibility as the Director may require. If such application or proof of
  eligibility is not submitted during the lifetime of an otherwise eligible
  individual, no annuity shall be due or payable to the individual's estate.
  `(e) WAIVER OF ANNUITY- An individual entitled to an annuity from the
  fund may decline to accept all or any part of the annuity by submitting a
  signed waiver to the Director. The waiver may be revoked in writing at any
  time. Payment of the annuity waived may not be made for the period during
  which the waiver is in effect.
  `(f) LIMITATIONS-
  `(1) APPLICATION BEFORE 115TH ANNIVERSARY- No payment shall be made from
  the fund unless an application for benefits based on the service of the
  participant is received by the Director before the 115th anniversary of
  the participant's birth.
  `(2) APPLICATION WITHIN 30 YEARS- Notwithstanding paragraph (1), after the
  death of a participant or retired participant, no benefit based on that
  participant's service may be paid from the fund unless an application for
  the benefit is received by the Director within 30 years after the death
  or other event which gives rise to eligibility for the benefit.
  `(g) WITHHOLDING OF STATE INCOME TAX FROM ANNUITIES-
  `(1) AGREEMENTS WITH STATES- The Director shall, in accordance with this
  subsection, enter into an agreement with any State within 120 days of a
  request for agreement from the proper State official. The agreement shall
  provide that the Director shall withhold State income tax in the case of
  the monthly annuity of any annuitant who voluntarily requests, in writing,
  such withholding. The amounts withheld during any calendar quarter shall
  be held in the Fund and disbursed to the States during the month following
  that calendar quarter.
  `(2) LIMITATION ON MULTIPLE REQUESTS- An annuitant may have in effect at
  any time only                  one request for withholding under this
  subsection, and an annuitant may not have more than two such requests
  during any one calendar year.
  `(3) CHANGE IN STATE DESIGNATION- Subject to paragraph (2), an annuitant
  may change the State designated by that annuitant for purposes of having
  withholdings made, and may request that the withholdings be remitted in
  accordance with such change. An annuitant also may revoke any request
  of that annuitant for withholding. Any change in the State designated or
  revocation is effective on the first day of the month after the month in
  which the request or the revocation is processed by the Director, but in
  no event later than on the first day of the second month beginning after
  the day on which such request or revocation is received by the Director.
  `(4) GENERAL PROVISIONS- This subsection does not give the consent of
  the United States to the application of a statute which imposes more
  burdensome requirements of the United States than on employers generally,
  or which subjects the United States or any annuitant to a penalty or
  liability because of this subsection. The Director may not accept pay from
  a State for services performed in withholding State income taxes from
  annuities. Any amount erroneously withheld from an annuity and paid to
  a State by the Director shall be repaid by the State in accordance with
  regulations prescribed by the Director.
  `(5) DEFINITION- For the purpose of this subsection, the term `State'
  includes the District of Columbia and any territory or possession of the
  United States.
`SEC. 264. ATTACHMENT OF MONEYS.
  `(a) EXEMPTION FROM LEGAL PROCESS- Except as provided in subsections (b),
  (c), and (e), none of the moneys mentioned in this title shall be assignable
  either in law or equity, or be subject to execution, levy, attachment,
  garnishment, or other legal process, except as otherwise may be provided
  by Federal laws.
  `(b) PAYMENT TO FORMER SPOUSES UNDER COURT ORDER OR SPOUSAL AGREEMENT-
  In the case of any participant, former participant, or retired participant
  who has a former spouse who is covered by a court order or who is a party
  to a spousal agreement--
  `(1) any right of the former spouse to any annuity under section 222(a)
  in connection with any retirement or disability annuity of the participant,
  and the amount of any such annuity;
  `(2) any right of the former spouse of a participant or retired participant
  to a survivor annuity under section 222(b) or 222(c), and the amount of
  any such annuity;
  `(3) any right of the former spouse of a former participant to any payment
  of a lump-sum credit under section 241(b) and to any payment of a return
  of contributions under section 234(a); and
  `(4) any right of the former spouse of a participant or former participant
  to a lump-sum payment or additional annuity payable from a voluntary
  contribution account under section 281;
shall be determined in accordance with that spousal agreement or court order,
if and to the extent expressly provided for in the terms of the spousal
agreement or court order that are not inconsistent with the requirements of
this title.
  `(c) OTHER PAYMENTS UNDER COURT ORDERS- Payments under this title that
  would otherwise be made to a participant, former participant, or retired
  participant based upon that participant's service shall be paid,  in whole or
  in part, by the Director to another individual if and to the extent expressly
  provided for in the terms of any court decree of divorce, annulment,
  or legal separation, or the terms of any court order or court-approved
  property settlement agreement incident to any court decree of divorce,
  annulment, or legal separation.
  `(d) PROSPECTIVE PAYMENTS; BAR TO RECOVERY-
  `(1) Subsections (b) and (c) apply only to payments made under this title
  for periods beginning after the date of receipt by the Director of written
  notice of such decree, order, or agreement and such additional information
  and documentation as the Director may require.
  `(2) Any payment under subsection (b) or (c) to an individual bars recovery
  by any other individual.
  `(e) ALLOTMENTS- An individual entitled to an annuity from the fund may
  make allotments or assignments of amounts from such annuity for such
  purposes as the Director considers appropriate.
`SEC. 265. RECOVERY OF PAYMENTS.
  `Recovery of payments under this Act may not be made from an individual when,
  in the judgment of the Director, the individual is without fault and recovery
  would be against equity and good conscience. Withholding or recovery of
  money payable pursuant to this Act on account of a certification or payment
  made by a former employee of the Agency in the discharge of the former
  employee's official duties may be made if the Director certifies that the
  certification or payment involved fraud on the part of the former employee.
`Part H--Retired Participants Recalled, Reinstated, or Reappointed in the
Agency or Reemployed in the Government
`SEC. 271. RECALL.
  `(a) AUTHORITY TO RECALL- The Director may, with the consent of a retired
  participant, recall that participant to service in the Agency whenever
  the Director determines that such recall is in the public interest.
  `(b) PAY OF RETIRED PARTICIPANT WHILE SERVING- A retired participant recalled
  to duty in the Agency under subsection (a) or reinstated or reappointed
  in accordance with section 231(b) shall, while so serving, be entitled,
  in lieu of the retired participant's annuity, to the full basic pay of the
  grade in which the retired participant is serving. During such service,
  the retired participant shall make contributions to the fund in accordance
  with section 211.
  `(c) RECOMPUTATION OF ANNUITY- When the retired participant reverts to
  retired status, the annuity of the retired participant shall be redetermined
  in accordance with section 221.
`SEC. 272. REEMPLOYMENT.
  `A participant retired under this title shall not, by reason of that
  retired status, be barred from employment in Federal Government service
  in any appointive position for which the participant is qualified.
`SEC. 273. REEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
  `(a) DEDUCTION FROM BASIC PAY- An annuitant who has retired under this title
  and who is reemployed in the Federal Government service in any appointive
  position (either on a part-time or full-time basis) shall be entitled to
  receive the annuity payable under this title, but there shall be deducted
  from the annuitant's basic pay a sum equal to the annuity allocable to
  the period of actual employment.
  `(b) RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENTS- In the event of an overpayment under this
  section, the amount of the overpayment shall be recovered by withholding
  the amount involved from the basic pay payable to such reemployed annuitant
  or from any other moneys, including the annuitant's annuity, payable in
  accordance with this title.
  `(c) DEPOSIT IN THE FUND- Sums deducted from the basic pay of a reemployed
  annuitant under this section shall be deposited in the Treasury of the
  United States to the credit of the fund.
`Part I--Voluntary Contributions
`SEC. 281. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS.
  `(a) AUTHORITY FOR VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Under such regulations as may be prescribed by the
  Director, a participant may voluntarily contribute additional sums in
  multiples of one percent of the participant's basic pay, but not in excess
  of 10 percent of such basic pay.
  `(2) INTEREST- The voluntary contribution account in each case is the sum
  of unrefunded contributions, plus interest--
  `(A) for periods before January 1, 1985, at 3 percent a year; and
  `(B) for periods on or after January 1, 1985, at the rate computed under
  section 8334(e) of title 5, United States Code,
compounded annually to the date of election under subsection (b) or the date
of payment under subsection (d).
  `(b) TREATMENT OF VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS- Effective on the date of
  retirement and at the election of the participant, the participant's
  account shall be--
  `(1) returned in a lump sum;
  `(2) used to purchase an additional life annuity;
  `(3) used to purchase an additional life annuity for the participant and
  to provide for a cash payment on the participant's death to a beneficiary; or
  `(4) used to purchase an additional life annuity for the participant and a
  life annuity commencing on the participant's death payable to a beneficiary,
  with a guaranteed return to the beneficiary or the beneficiary's legal
  representative of an amount equal to the cash payment referred to in
  paragraph (3).
In the case of a benefit provided under paragraph (3) or (4), the participant
shall notify the Director in writing of the name of the beneficiary of the
cash payment or life annuity to be paid upon the participant's death.
  `(c) VALUE OF BENEFITS- The benefits provided by subsection (b) (2), (3),
  or (4) shall be actuarially equivalent in value to the payment provided for
  in subsection (b)(1) and shall be calculated upon such tables of mortality
  as may be from time to time prescribed for this purpose by the Director.
  `(d) LUMP-SUM PAYMENT- A voluntary contribution account shall be paid in a
  lump sum at such time as the participant dies or separates from the Agency
  without entitlement to an annuity. In the case of death, the account shall
  be paid in the order of precedence specified in section 241(c).
  `(e) BENEFITS IN ADDITION TO OTHER BENEFITS- Any benefit payable to
  a participant or to the participant's beneficiary with respect to the
  additional contributions provided under this section shall be in addition
  to benefits otherwise provided under this title.
`Part J--Cost-of-Living Adjustment of Annuities
`SEC. 291. COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENT OF ANNUITIES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each annuity payable from the fund shall be adjusted
  as follows:
  `(1) Each cost-of-living annuity increase under this section shall be
  identical to the corresponding percentage increase under section 8340(b)
  of title 5, United States Code.
  `(2) A cost-of-living increase made under paragraph (1) shall become
  effective under this section on the effective date of each such increase
  under section 8340(b) of title 5, United States Code. Except as provided
  in subsection (b), each such increase shall be applied to each annuity
  payable from the fund which has a commencing date not later than the
  effective date of the increase.
  `(b) ELIGIBILITY- Eligibility for an annuity increase under this section
  shall be governed by the commencing date of each annuity payable from the
  fund as of the effective date of an increase, except as follows:
  `(1) The first cost-of-living increase (if any) made under subsection (a)
  to an annuity which is payable from the fund to a participant who retires,
  to the surviving spouse, former spouse, or previous spouse of a participant
  who dies in service, or to the surviving spouse, former spouse, previous
  spouse, or insurable interest designee of a deceased annuitant whose annuity
  has not been increased under this subsection or subsection (a), shall be
  equal to the product (adjusted to the nearest  1/10  of one percent) of--
  `(A)  1/12  of the applicable percent change computed under subsection
  (a), multiplied by
  `(B) the number of months (not to exceed 12 months, counting any portion
  of a month as a month)--
  `(i) for which the annuity was payable from the fund before the effective
  date of the increase, or
  `(ii) in the case of a surviving spouse, former spouse, previous spouse,
  or insurable interest designee of a deceased annuitant whose annuity has
  not been so increased, since the annuity was first payable to the deceased
  annuitant.
  `(2) Effective from its commencing date, an annuity payable from the fund
  to an annuitant's survivor (other than a child entitled to an annuity
  under section 221(d) or section 232(c)) shall be increased by the total
  percentage increase the annuitant was receiving under this section at death.
  `(3) For purposes of computing the annuity of a child under section 221(d)
  that commences after October 31, 1969, the dollar amounts specified in
  section 221(d)(3) shall each be increased by the total percentage increases
  allowed and in force under this section on or after such day and, in the
  case of a deceased annuitant, the percentages specified in that section
  shall be increased by the total percent allowed and in force to the
  annuitant under this section on or after such day.
  `(c) LIMITATION- An annuity increase provided by this section may not be
  computed on any additional annuity purchased at retirement by voluntary
  contributions.
  `(d) ROUNDING TO NEXT LOWER DOLLAR- The monthly annuity installment, after
  adjustment under this section, shall be rounded to the next lowest dollar,
  except that such installment shall, after adjustment, reflect an increase
  of at least $1.
  `(e) LIMITATION ON MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ANNUITY-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- An annuity shall not be increased by reason of an adjustment
  under this section to an amount which exceeds the greater of--
  `(A) the maximum pay payable for GS-15 30 days before the effective date
  of the adjustment under this section; or
  `(B) the final pay (or average pay, if higher) of the participant with
  respect to whom the annuity is paid, increased by the overall annual average
  percentage adjustments (compounded) in the rates of pay of the General
  Schedule under subchapter I of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code,
  during the period--
  `(i) beginning on the date on which the annuity commenced (or, in the
  case of a survivor of the retired participant, the date on which the
  participant's annuity commenced), and
  `(ii) ending on the effective date of the adjustment under this section.
  `(2) PAY DEFINED- For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `pay' means the
  rate of salary or basic pay as payable under any provision of law, including
  any provision of law limiting the expenditure of appropriated funds.
`Part K--Conformity With Civil Service Retirement System
`SEC. 292. AUTHORITY TO MAINTAIN EXISTING AREAS OF CONFORMITY BETWEEN CIVIL
SERVICE AND CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEMS.
  `(a) PRESIDENTIAL AUTHORITY-
  `(1) CONFORMITY TO CSRS BY EXECUTIVE ORDER- Whenever the President
  determines that it would be appropriate for the purpose of maintaining
  existing conformity between the Civil Service Retirement and Disability
  System and the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System
  with respect to substantially identical provisions, the President may, by
  Executive order, extend to current or former participants in the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, or to their survivors,
  a provision of law enacted after January 1, 1975, which--
  `(A) amends subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5, United States Code,
  and is applicable to civil service employees generally; or
  `(B) otherwise affects current or former participants in the Civil Service
  Retirement and Disability System, or their survivors.
  `(2) EXTENSION TO CIARDS- Any such order shall extend such provision of law
  so that it applies in like manner with respect to such Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement and Disability System participants, former participants,
  or survivors.
  `(3) LEGAL STATUS- Any such order shall have the force and effect of law.
  `(4) EFFECTIVE DATE- Any such order may be given retroactive effect to a
  date not earlier than the effective date of the corresponding provision
  of law applicable to employees under the Civil Service Retirement System.
  `(b) EFFECT OF EXECUTIVE ORDER- Provisions of an Executive order issued
  pursuant to this section shall modify, supersede, or render inapplicable,
  as the case may be, to the extent inconsistent therewith--
  `(1) provisions of law enacted before the effective date of the Executive
  order; and
  `(2) any prior provision of an Executive order issued under this section.
`SEC. 293. THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN PARTICIPATION.
  `(a) ELIGIBILITY FOR THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN- Participants in the system shall
  be deemed to be employees for the purposes of section 8351 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(b) MANAGEMENT OF THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN ACCOUNTS BY DIRECTOR- Subsections
  (k) and (m) of section 8461 of title 5, United States Code, shall apply
  with respect to contributions made by participants to the Thrift Savings
  Fund under section 8351 of such title and to earnings attributable to the
  investment of such contributions.
`SEC. 294. ALTERNATIVE FORMS OF ANNUITIES.
  `(a) AUTHORITY FOR ALTERNATIVE FORM OF ANNUITY- The Director shall prescribe
  regulations under which a participant may, at the time of retiring under
  this title (other than under section 231), elect annuity benefits under
  this section instead of any other benefits under this title (including any
  survivor benefits under this title) based on the service of the participant
  creditable under this title.
  `(b) BASIS FOR ALTERNATIVE FORMS OF ANNUITY- The regulations and alternative
  forms of annuity shall, to the maximum extent practicable, meet the
  requirements prescribed in section 8343a of title 5, United States Code.
  `(c) LUMP-SUM CREDIT- Any lump-sum credit provided pursuant to an election
  under subsection (a) shall not preclude an individual from receiving other
  benefits provided under that subsection.
  `(d) SUBMISSION OF REGULATIONS TO CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEES-
  The Director shall submit the regulations prescribed under subsection (a) to
  the congressional intelligence committees before the regulations take effect.
`SEC. 295. PAYMENTS FROM CIARDS FUND FOR PORTIONS OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE
RETIREMENT SYSTEM ANNUITIES.
  `The amount of the increase in any annuity that results from the application
  of section 18 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, if and when
  such increase is based on an individual's overseas service as an employee
  of the Central Intelligence Agency, shall be paid from the fund.
`TITLE III--PARTICIPATION IN THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM
`SEC. 301. APPLICATION OF FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' RETIREMENT SYSTEM TO AGENCY
EMPLOYEES.
  `(a) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), all
  employees of the Agency, any of whose service after December 31, 1983,
  is employment for the purpose of title II of the Social Security Act
  and chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, shall be subject to
  chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(b) EXCEPTION FOR PRE-1984 EMPLOYEES- Participants in the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System who were participants
  in such system on or before December 31, 1983, and who have not had a
  break in service in excess of one year since that date, are not subject
  to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, without regard to whether
  they are subject to title II of the Social Security Act.
  `(c) NONAPPLICABILITY OF FERS TO CERTAIN EMPLOYEES-
  `(1) The provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, shall
  not apply with respect to--
  `(A) any individual who separates, or who has separated, from Federal
  Government service after having been an employee of the Agency subject to
  title II of this Act; and
  `(B) any employee of the Agency having at least 5 years of civilian
  service which was performed before January 1, 1987, and is creditable
  under title II of this Act (determined without regard to any deposit
  or redeposit requirement under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5,
  United States Code, or under title II of this Act, or any requirement that
  the individual become subject to such subchapter or to title II of this
  Act after performing the service involved).
  `(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to an individual who has
  elected under regulations prescribed under section 307 to become subject
  to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to the extent provided in
  such regulations.
  `(3) An individual described in paragraph (1) shall be deemed to be an
  individual excluded under section 8402(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(d) ELECTION TO BECOME SUBJECT TO FERS- An employee who is designated as
  a participant in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability
  System after December 31, 1987, pursuant to section 203 may elect to become
  subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code. Such election--
  `(1) shall not be effective unless it is made during the six-month period
  beginning on the date on which the employee is so designated;
  `(2) shall take effect beginning with the first pay period beginning after
  the date of the election; and
  `(3) shall be irrevocable.
  `(e) SPECIAL RULES- The application of the provisions of chapter 84 of
  title 5, United States Code, to an employee referred to in subsection
  (a) shall be subject to the exceptions and special rules provided in this
  title. Any provision of that chapter which is inconsistent with a special
  rule provided in this title shall not apply to such employees.
`SEC. 302. SPECIAL RULES RELATING TO SECTION 203 CRITERIA EMPLOYEES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this section, in the
  application of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, to an employee
  of the Agency who is subject to such chapter and is designated by the
  Director under the criteria prescribed in section 203, such employee shall
  be treated for purposes of determining such employee's retirement benefits
  and obligations under such chapter as if the employee were a law enforcement
  officer (as defined in section 8401(17) of title 5, United States Code).
  `(b) VOLUNTARY AND MANDATORY RETIREMENT- The provisions of sections 233 and
  235 shall apply to employees referred to in subsection (a), except that
  the retirement benefits shall be determined under chapter 84 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(c) RECALL-
  `(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), section 271 shall apply to an
  employee referred to in subsection (a).
  `(2) Contributions during recall service shall be made as provided in
  section 8422 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(3) When an employee recalled under this subsection reverts to a retired
  status, the annuity of such employee shall be redetermined under the
  provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
`SEC. 303. SPECIAL RULES FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES FOR SERVICE ABROAD.
  `(a) SPECIAL COMPUTATION RULE- Notwithstanding any provision of chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code, the annuity under subchapter II of such
  chapter of a retired employee of the Agency who is not designated under
  section 302(a) and who has served abroad as an employee of the Agency
  after December 31, 1986, shall be computed as provided in subsection (b).
  `(b) COMPUTATION-
  `(1) SERVICE ABROAD- The portion of the annuity relating to such service
  abroad shall be computed as provided in section 8415(d) of title 5, United
  States Code.
  `(2) OTHER SERVICE- The portions of the annuity relating to other creditable
  service shall be computed as provided in section 8415 of such title that
  is applicable to such service under the conditions prescribed in chapter
  84 of such title.
`SEC. 304. SPECIAL RULES FOR FORMER SPOUSES.
  `(a) GENERAL RULE- Except as otherwise specifically provided in this section,
  the provisions of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, shall apply in
  the case of an employee of the Agency who is subject to chapter 84 of title
  5, United States Code, and who has a former spouse (as defined in section
  8401(12) of title 5, United States Code) or a qualified former spouse.
  `(b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
  `(1) EMPLOYEE- The term `employee' means an employee of the Agency who is
  subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, including an employee
  referred to in section 302(a).
  `(2) QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE- The term `qualified former spouse' means a
  former spouse of an employee or retired employee who--
  `(A) in the case of a former spouse whose divorce from such employee
  became final on or before December 4, 1991, was married to such employee
  for not less than 10 years during periods of the employee's service which
  are creditable under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code, at least
  5 years of which were spent outside the United States by both the employee
  and the former spouse during the employee's service with the Agency; and
  `(B) in the case of a former spouse whose divorce from such employee
  becomes final after December 4, 1991, was married to such employee for
  not less than 10 years during periods of the employee's service which are
  creditable under section 8411 of title 5, United States Code, at least
  5 years of which were spent by the employee outside the United States
  during the employee's service with the Agency or otherwise in a position
  the duties of which qualified the employee for designation by the Director
  under the criteria prescribed in section 203.
  `(3) PRO RATA SHARE- The term `pro rata share' means the percentage that
  is equal to (A) the number of days of the marriage of the qualified former
  spouse to the employee during the employee's periods of creditable service
  under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, divided by (B) the total
  number of days of the employee's creditable service.
  `(4) SPOUSAL AGREEMENT- The term `spousal agreement' means an agreement
  between an employee, former employee, or retired employee and such employee's
  spouse or qualified former spouse that--
  `(A) is in writing, is signed by the parties, and is notarized;
  `(B) has not been modified by court order; and
  `(C) has been authenticated by the Director.
  `(5) COURT ORDER- The term `court order' means any court decree of divorce,
  annulment or legal separation, or any court order or court-approved property
  settlement agreement incident to such court decree of divorce, annulment,
  or legal separation.
  `(c) ENTITLEMENT OF QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE TO RETIREMENT BENEFITS-
  `(1) ENTITLEMENT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Unless otherwise expressly provided by a spousal agreement
  or court order governing disposition of benefits payable under subchapter
  II or V of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, a qualified former
  spouse of an employee is entitled to a share (determined under subparagraph
  (B)) of all benefits otherwise payable to such employee under subchapter
  II or V of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(B) AMOUNT OF SHARE- The share referred to in subparagraph (A) equals--
  `(i) 50 percent, if the qualified former spouse was married to the employee
  throughout the entire period of the employee's service which is creditable
  under chapter 84 of title 50, United States Code; or
  `(ii) a pro rata share of 50 percent, if the qualified former spouse was
  not married to the employee throughout such creditable service.
  `(2) ANNUITY SUPPLEMENT- The benefits payable to an employee under subchapter
  II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, shall include, for purposes
  of this subsection, any annuity supplement payable to such employee under
  sections 8421 and 8421a of such title.
  `(3) DISQUALIFICATION UPON REMARRIAGE BEFORE AGE 55- A qualified former
  spouse shall not be entitled to any benefit under this subsection if,
  before the commencement of any benefit, the qualified former spouse
  remarries before becoming 55 years of age.
  `(4) COMMENCEMENT AND TERMINATION-
  `(A) COMMENCEMENT- The benefits of a qualified former spouse under this
  subsection commence on the later of--
  `(i) the day on which the employee upon whose service the benefits are
  based becomes entitled to the benefits; or
  `(ii) the first day of the second month beginning after the date on which the
  Director receives written notice of the court order or spousal agreement,
  together with such additional information or documentation as the Director
  may prescribe.
  `(B) TERMINATION- The benefits of the qualified former spouse and the
  right thereto terminate on--
  `(i) the last day of the month before the qualified former spouse remarries
  before 55 years of age or dies; or
  `(ii) the date on which the retired employee's benefits terminate (except
  in the case of benefits subject to paragraph (5)(B)).
  `(5) PAYMENTS TO RETIRED EMPLOYEES-
  `(A) CALCULATION OF SURVIVOR ANNUITY- Any reduction in payments to a retired
  employee as a result of payments to a qualified former spouse under this
  subsection shall be disregarded in calculating--
  `(i) the survivor annuity for any spouse, former spouse (qualified or
  otherwise), or other survivor under chapter 84 of title 5, United States
  Code, and
  `(ii) any reduction in the annuity of the retired employee to provide
  survivor benefits under subsection (d) of this section or under sections
  8442 or 8445 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(B) REDUCTION IN BASIC PAY UPON RECALL TO SERVICE- If a retired employee
  whose annuity is reduced under paragraph (1) is recalled to service under
  section 302(c), the basic pay of that annuitant shall be reduced by the same
  amount as the annuity would have been reduced if it had continued. Amounts
  equal to the reductions under this subparagraph shall be deposited in the
  Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Civil Service Retirement
  and Disability Fund.
  `(6) SPECIAL RULES FOR DISABILITY ANNUITANTS- Notwithstanding paragraphs
  (1) and (4), in the case of any qualified former spouse of a disability
  annuitant--
  `(A) the annuity of such former spouse shall commence on the date on which
  the employee would qualify, on the basis of the employee's creditable
  service, for benefits under subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5,
  United States Code, or on the date on which the disability annuity begins,
  whichever is later; and
  `(B) the amount of the annuity of the qualified former spouse shall be
  calculated on the basis of the benefits for which the employee would
  otherwise qualify under subchapter II of chapter 84 of such title.
  `(7) PRO RATA SHARE IN CASE OF EMPLOYEES TRANSFERRED TO FERS- Notwithstanding
  paragraph (1)(B), in the case of an employee who has elected to become
  subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the share of such
  employee's qualified former spouse shall equal the sum of--
  `(A) 50 percent of the employee's annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83
  of title 5, United States Code, or under title II of this Act (computed in
  accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
  Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that
  the number of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable
  service before the effective date of the election to transfer bears to
  the employee's total creditable service before such effective date; and
  `(B) if applicable, 50 percent of the employee's benefits under chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code, or section 302(a) of this Act (computed in
  accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
  Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that
  the number of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable
  service on and after the effective date of the election to transfer bears
  to the employee's total creditable service after such effective date.
  `(8) TREATMENT OF PRO RATA SHARE UNDER INTERNAL REVENUE CODE- For purposes
  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, payments to a qualified former spouse
  under this subsection shall be treated as income to the qualified former
  spouse and not to the employee.
  `(d) QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE SURVIVOR BENEFITS-
  `(1) ENTITLEMENT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Subject to an election under section 8416(a) of title 5,
  United States Code, and unless otherwise expressly provided by any spousal
  agreement or court order governing survivor benefits payable under this
  subsection to a qualified former spouse, such former spouse is entitled to
  a share, determined under subparagraph (B), of all survivor benefits that
  would otherwise be payable under subchapter IV of chapter 84 of title 5,
  United States Code, to an eligible surviving spouse of the employee.
  `(B) AMOUNT OF SHARE- The share referred to in subparagraph (A) equals--
  `(i) 100 percent, if the qualified former spouse was married to the employee
  throughout the entire period of the employee's service which is creditable
  under chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code; or
  `(ii) a pro rata share of 100 percent, if the qualified former spouse was
  not married to the employee throughout such creditable service.
  `(2) SURVIVOR BENEFITS-
  `(A) The survivor benefits payable under this subsection to a qualified
  former spouse shall include the amount payable under section 8442(b)(1)(A)
  of title 5, United States Code, and any supplementary annuity under section
  8442(f) of such title that would be payable if such former spouse were a
  widow or widower entitled to an annuity under such section.
  `(B) Any calculation under section 8442(f) of title 5, United States Code,
  of the supplementary annuity payable to a widow or widower of an employee
  referred to in section 302(a) shall be based on an `assumed CIARDS annuity'
  rather than an `assumed CSRS annuity' as stated in section 8442(f) of such
  title. For the purpose of this subparagraph, the term `assumed CIARDS
  annuity' means the amount of the survivor annuity to which the widow or
  widower would be entitled under title II of this Act based on the service
  of the deceased annuitant determined under section 8442(f)(5) of such title.
  `(3) DISQUALIFICATION UPON REMARRIAGE BEFORE AGE 55- A qualified former
  spouse shall not be entitled to any benefit under this subsection if,
  before commencement of any benefit, the qualified former spouse remarries
  before becoming 55 years of age.
  `(4) RESTORATION- If the survivor annuity payable under this subsection to
  a surviving qualified former spouse is terminated because of remarriage
  before becoming age 55, the annuity shall be restored at the same rate
  commencing on the date such remarriage is dissolved by death, divorce,
  or annulment, if--
  `(A) such former spouse elects to receive this survivor annuity instead of
  any other survivor benefit to which such former spouse may be entitled under
  subchapter IV of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, or under another
  retirement system for Government employees by reason of the remarriage; and
  `(B) any lump sum paid on termination of the annuity is returned to the
  Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund.
  `(5) MODIFICATION OF COURT ORDER OR SPOUSAL AGREEMENT- A modification in
  a court order or spousal agreement to adjust a qualified former spouse's
  share of the survivor benefits shall not be effective if issued after
  the retirement or death of the employee, former employee, or annuitant,
  whichever occurs first.
  `(6) EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE'S ENTITLEMENT- After
  a qualified former spouse of a retired employee remarries before becoming
  age 55 or dies, the reduction in the retired employee's annuity for the
  purpose of providing a survivor annuity for such former spouse shall be
  terminated. The annuitant may elect, in a signed writing received by the
  Director within 2 years after the qualified former spouse's remarriage
  or death, to continue the reduction in order to provide or increase the
  survivor annuity for such annuitant's spouse. The annuitant making such
  election shall pay a deposit in accordance with the provisions of section
  8418 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(7) PRO RATA SHARE IN CASE OF EMPLOYEES TRANSFERRED TO FERS- Notwithstanding
  paragraph (1)(B), in the case of an employee who has elected to become
  subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, the share of such
  employee's qualified former spouse to survivor benefits shall equal the
  sum of--
  `(A) 50 percent of the employee's annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83
  of title 5, United States Code, or under title II of this Act (computed in
  accordance with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System
  Act of 1986 or section 307 of this Act), multiplied by the proportion that
  the number of days of marriage during the period of the employee's creditable
  service before the effective date of the election to transfer bears to
  the employee's total creditable service before such effective date; and
  `(B) if applicable--
  `(i) 50 percent of the employee's annuity under chapter 84 of title 5,
  United States Code, or section 302(a) of this Act (computed in accordance
  with section 302(a) of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of
  1986 or section 307 of this Act), plus
  `(ii) the survivor benefits referred to in subsection (d)(2)(A),
multiplied by the proportion that the number of days of marriage during the
period of the employee's creditable service on and after the effective date
of the election to transfer bears to the employee's total creditable service
after such effective date.
  `(e) QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN BENEFIT-
  `(1) ENTITLEMENT-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Unless otherwise  expressly provided by a spousal agreement
  or court order governing disposition of the balance of an account in the
  Thrift Savings Fund under subchapter III of chapter 84 of title 5, United
  States Code, a qualified former spouse of an employee is entitled to a share
  (determined under subparagraph (B)) of the balance in the employee's account
  in the Thrift Savings Fund on the date the divorce of the qualified former
  spouse and employee becomes final.
  `(B) AMOUNT OF SHARE- The share referred to in subparagraph (A) equals 50
  percent of the employee's account balance in the Thrift Savings Fund that
  accrued during the period of marriage. For purposes of this subsection,
  the employee's account balance shall not include the amount of any
  outstanding loan.
  `(2) PAYMENT OF BENEFIT-
  `(A) TIME OF PAYMENT- The entitlement of a qualified former spouse under
  paragraph (1) shall be effective on the date the divorce of the qualified
  former spouse and employee becomes final. The qualified former spouse's
  benefit shall be payable after the date on which the Director receives
  the divorce decree or any applicable court order or spousal agreement,
  together with such additional information or documentation as the Director
  may require.
  `(B) METHOD OF PAYMENT- The qualified former spouse's benefit under this
  subsection shall be paid in a lump sum.
  `(C) LIMITATION- A spousal agreement or court order may not provide for
  payment to a qualified former spouse under this subsection of an amount
  that exceeds the employee's account balance in the Thrift Savings Fund.
  `(D) DEATH OF QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSE- If the qualified former spouse dies
  before payment of the benefit provided under this subsection, such payment
  shall be made to the estate of the qualified former spouse.
  `(E) BAR TO RECOVERY- Any payment under this subsection to an individual
  bars recovery by any other individual.
  `(3) CLOSED ACCOUNT- No payment under this subsection may be made by the
  Director if the date on which the divorce becomes final is after the date on
  which the total amount of the employee's account balance has been withdrawn
  or transferred, or the date on which an annuity contract has been purchased,
  in accordance with section 8433 of title 5, United States Code.
  `(f) PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS OF QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSES- An employee may
  not make an election or modification of election under section 8417 or 8418
  of title 5, United States Code, or other section relating to the employee's
  annuity under subchapter II of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  that would diminish the entitlement of a qualified former spouse to any
  benefit granted to such former spouse by this section or by court order
  or spousal agreement.
  `(g) PAYMENT OF SHARE OF LUMP-SUM CREDIT- Whenever an employee or former
  employee becomes entitled to receive the lump-sum credit under section
  8424(a) of title 5, United States Code, a share (determined under subsection
  (c)(1)(B) of this section) of that lump-sum credit shall be paid to any
  qualified former spouse of such employee, unless otherwise expressly
  provided by any spousal agreement or court order governing disposition of
  the lump-sum credit involved.
  `(h) PAYMENT TO QUALIFIED FORMER SPOUSES UNDER COURT ORDER OR SPOUSAL
  AGREEMENT- In the case of any employee or retired employee who has a
  qualified former spouse who is covered by a court order or who is a party
  to a spousal agreement--
  `(1) any right of the qualified former spouse to any retirement benefits
  under subsection (c) and to any survivor benefits under subsection (d),
  and the amount of any such benefits;
  `(2) any right of the qualified former spouse to any Thrift Savings Plan
  benefit under subsection (e), and the amount of any such benefit; and
  `(3) any right of the qualified former spouse to any payment of a lump-sum
  credit under subsection (g), and the amount of any such payment;
shall be determined in accordance with that spousal agreement or court order,
if and to the extent  expressly provided for in the terms of the spousal
agreement or court order that are not inconsistent with the requirements of
this section.
  `(i) APPLICABILITY OF CIARDS FORMER SPOUSE BENEFITS-
  `(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), in the case of an employee who
  has elected to become subject to chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  the provisions of sections 224 and 225 shall apply to such employee's
  former spouse (as defined in section 102(a)(3)) who would otherwise be
  eligible for benefits under sections 224 and 225 but for the employee
  having elected to become subject to such chapter.
  `(2) For the purposes of computing such former spouse's benefits under
  sections 224 and 225--
  `(A) the retirement benefits shall be equal to the amount determined under
  subsection (c)(7)(A); and
  `(B) the survivor benefits shall be equal to 55 percent of the full amount
  of the employee's annuity computed in accordance with section 302(a)
  of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986 or regulations
  prescribed under section 307 of this Act.
  `(3) Benefits provided pursuant to this subsection shall be payable from
  the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability Fund.
`SEC. 305. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
  `(a) FINALITY OF DECISIONS OF DIRECTOR- Section 201(c) of this Act shall
  apply in the administration of chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code,
  with respect to employees of the Agency.
  `(b) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding subsection (a), section 8461(e) of title 5,
  United States Code, shall apply with respect to employees of the Agency
  who are not participants in the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement
  and Disability System and are not designated under section 302(a).
`SEC. 306. REGULATIONS.
  `(a) REQUIREMENT- The Director shall prescribe in regulations appropriate
  procedures to carry out this title. Such regulations shall be prescribed
  in consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
  and the Executive Director of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
  `(b) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- The Director shall submit regulations prescribed
  under subsection (a) to the congressional intelligence committees before
  they take effect.
`SEC. 307. TRANSITION REGULATIONS.
  `(a) REGULATIONS- The Director shall prescribe regulations providing for the
  transition from the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability
  System to the Federal Employees' Retirement System provided in chapter 84
  of title 5, United States Code, in a manner consistent with sections 301
  through 304 of the Federal Employees' Retirement System Act of 1986.
  `(b) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- The Director shall submit regulations prescribed
  under subsection (a) to the congressional intelligence committees before
  they take effect.'.
SEC. 803. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
  (a) CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949-
  (1) SECTION 14- Section 14(a) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of
  1949 (50 U.S.C. 403n(a)) is amended by striking out `sections 204, 221(b)
  (1)-(3), 221(f), 221(g)(2), 221(l), 221(m), 221(n), 221(o), 222, 223, 224,
  225, 232(b), 234(c), 234(d), 234(e), and 263(b) of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `sections 102, 221(b) (1)-(3), 221(f), 221(g), 221(h)(2),
  221(i), 221(l), 222, 223, 224, 225, 232(b), 241(b), 241(d), and 264(b)
  of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act'.
  (2) SECTION 18- Section 18(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 403r(a)) is amended
  by striking out `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for
  Certain Employees' and inserting in lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act'.
  (3) SECTION 19- Section 19 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 403s) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a)--
  (i) by inserting `OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO WHOM CIARDS SECTION 231 RULES
  APPLY- ' after `(a)';
  (ii) by striking out `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of
  1964 for Certain Employees, as amended' in clause (ii) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act';
  (iii) by inserting `such' in clause (iii) before `section 203';
  (iv) by striking out `such section 231' in the matter after clause (iv)
  and inserting in lieu thereof `section 231 of such Act'; and
  (v) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iv) as paragraphs (1) through
  (4), respectively;
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) by inserting `SURVIVORS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES TO WHOM CIARDS
  SECTION 231 RULES APPLY- ' after `(b)';
  (ii) by striking out `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of
  1964 for Certain Employees, as amended' in clause (ii) and inserting in
  lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act';
  (iii) by striking out `widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or
  children as defined in section 204 and section 232 of such the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees' in clause
  (iv) and inserting in lieu thereof `surviving spouse, former spouse, or child
  as defined in section 102 of the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act';
  (iv) by striking out `widow or widower, former spouse, and/or child or
  children' in the matter after clause (iv) and inserting in lieu thereof
  `surviving spouse, former spouse, or child';
  (v) by striking out `such section 232' in the matter after clause (iv)
  and inserting in lieu thereof `section 231 of such Act'; and
  (vi) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iv) as paragraphs (1) through
  (4), respectively;
  (C) by striking out subsections (c) and (d); and
  (D) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (c) and in that
  subsection--
  (i) by striking out `(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `ANNUITIES UNDER
  THIS SECTION DEEMED ANNUITIES UNDER CSRS- ';
  (ii) by striking out `established by section 202 of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `maintained pursuant to section 202 of the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act'; and
  (iii) by striking out paragraph (2).
  (b) NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY ACT OF 1959- Section 9(b)(3) of the National
  Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 402 note) is amended by striking
  out `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain
  Employees'  and inserting in lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence Agency
  Retirement Act'.
  (c) TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE- Sections 8347(n)(4)(A) and 8423(a)(1)(B)(i)
  of title 5, United States Code, are amended by striking out `the Central
  Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees'  and
  inserting in lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act'.
  (d) TITLE 10, UNITED STATES CODE- Section 1605(a) of title 10, United
  States Code, is amended in the second sentence--
  (1) striking out `the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for
  Certain Employees'  and inserting in lieu thereof `the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act'; and
  (2) by inserting `(50 U.S.C. 403r)' after `the Central Intelligence Agency
  Act of 1949'.
SEC. 804. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
  (a) PRIOR ELECTIONS- Any election made under the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees before the effective
  date specified in section 805 shall not be affected by the amendment made
  by section 802 and shall be deemed to have been made under the corresponding
  provision of that Act as restated by section 802 as the Central Intelligence
  Agency Retirement Act.
  (b) REFERENCES- Any reference in any other Act, or in any Executive order,
  rule, or regulation, to the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act
  of 1964 for Certain Employees, or to a provision of that Act, shall be
  deemed to refer to that Act and to the corresponding provision of that Act,
  as restated by section 802 as the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act.
SEC. 805. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  The amendments made by sections 802 and 803 shall take effect on the
  first day of the fourth month beginning after the date of the enactment
  of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.