 
--H.R.5483--
H.R.5483
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To modify the provisions of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, and
for other
purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Education of the Deaf Act Amendments of 1992'.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO EDUCATION OF THE DEAF ACT OF 1986
Subtitle A--Reorganization of Act
SEC. 101. REORGANIZATION.
  (a) REPEALS- The following provisions of the Education of the Deaf Act of
  1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et seq.) are repealed:
  (1) Part B and part C of title I.
  (2) Title III.
  (b) REDESIGNATIONS- The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended by
  subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
  (1) in the heading for title I, by amending the heading to read as follows:
`TITLE I--GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY; NATIONAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE FOR THE DEAF';
  (2) in the heading for part A of title I, by amending the heading to read
  as follows:
`Part A--Gallaudet University';
  (3) by striking the heading for title II and inserting the following:
`Part B--National Technical Institute for the Deaf';
  (4) by redesignating sections 201 and 202 as sections 111 and 112,
  respectively;
  (5) by striking the heading for title IV and inserting the following:
`TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS'; and
  (6) by redesignating sections 401 through 411 as sections 201 through 211,
  respectively.
  (c) CROSS-REFERENCE- The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended by
  subsection (b) of this section, is amended in section 103(b)(8) by striking
  `section 403' and inserting `section 203'.
Subtitle B--Gallaudet University
SEC. 111. BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
  Section 103 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4303)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking `, who on the effective date'
  and all that follows through `such date,'; and
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting after `corporation' the following:
  `(including the construction of buildings and other facilities)';
  (B) in paragraph (4) by amending the paragraph to read as follows:
  `(4) appoint a president and establish policies, guidelines, and procedures
  related to the appointments, the salaries, and the dismissals of professors,
  instructors, and other employees of Gallaudet University, including the
  adoption of a policy of outreach and recruitment to employ and advance in
  employment qualified individuals with disabilities, particularly individuals
  who are deaf or individuals who are hard of hearing.'; and
  (C) in paragraph (6), by amending the paragraph to read as follows:
  `(6) establish such schools, departments, and other units as the Board of
  Trustees deems necessary to carry out the purpose of Gallaudet University;'.
SEC. 112. ESTABLISHMENT OF AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS.
  Part A of title I of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301
  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following section:
`SEC. 104. ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS.
  `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- (1)(A) The Board of Trustees of Gallaudet
  University is authorized, in accordance with the agreement under section
  105, to maintain and operate exemplary elementary and secondary education
  programs, projects, and activities for the primary purpose of developing,
  evaluating, and disseminating innovative curricula, instructional techniques
  and strategies, and materials that can be used in various educational
  environments serving individuals who are deaf and individuals who are hard
  of hearing throughout the Nation.
  `(B) The elementary and secondary programs described in subparagraph (A)
  shall serve students with a broad spectrum of needs, including students
  who are lower achieving academically, who come from non-English speaking
  homes, who have secondary disabilities, who are members of minority groups,
  or who are from rural areas.
  `(C) The elementary and secondary programs described in subparagraph (A)
  shall include--
  `(i) the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, to provide day facilities
  for elementary education for individuals who are deaf, to provide such
  individuals with the vocational, transitional, independent living, and
  related services they need to function independently, and to prepare such
  individuals for high school and other secondary study; and
  `(ii) the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, to provide day and residential
  facilities for secondary education for individuals who are deaf, to provide
  such individuals with the vocational, transitional, independent living, and
  related services they need to function independently, and to prepare such
  individuals for college, other postsecondary opportunities, or the workplace.
  `(2) The Model Secondary School for the Deaf may provide residential
  facilities for students enrolled in the school--
  `(A) who live beyond a reasonable commuting distance from the school; or
  `(B) for whom such residency is necessary for them to receive a free
  appropriate public education within the meaning of part B of the Individuals
  with Disabilities Education Act.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS- (1) The elementary and secondary education
  programs shall--
  `(A) provide technical assistance and outreach throughout the Nation to
  meet the training and information needs of parents of infants and children
  who are deaf or hard of hearing;
  `(B) provide technical assistance and training to personnel for use
  in teaching (i) students who are deaf or hard of hearing, in various
  educational environments, and (ii) students who are deaf or hard of hearing
  with a broad spectrum of needs as described in subsection (a); and
  `(C) establish and publish priorities for research, development, and
  demonstration through a process that allows for public input;
  `(2) To the extent possible, the elementary and secondary education programs
  shall provide the services required under paragraph (1) in an equitable
  manner, based on the national distribution of students who are deaf or hard
  of hearing in educational environments as determined by the Secretary for
  purposes of section 618(b) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education
  Act. Such educational environments shall include--
  `(A) regular classes;
  `(B) resource rooms;
  `(C) separate classes;
  `(D) separate, public or private, nonresidential schools; and
  `(E) separate, public or private, residential schools and homebound or
  hospital environments.
  `(3) If a local educational agency, intermediate educational unit, or
  State educational agency refers a child to, or places a child in, one of
  the elementary or secondary education programs to meet its obligation to
  make available a free appropriate public education under part B of the
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the agency or unit shall be
  responsible for ensuring that the special education and related services
  provided to the child by the education program are in accordance with part
  B of that Act and that the child is provided the rights and procedural
  safeguards under section 615 of that Act.
  `(4) If the parents or guardian places a child in one of the elementary
  or secondary education programs, the University shall--
  `(A) notify the appropriate local educational agency, intermediate
  educational unit, or State educational agency of that child's attendance
  in the programs;
  `(B) work with local educational agencies, intermediate educational units,
  and State educational agencies, where appropriate, to ensure a smooth
  transfer of students to and from those programs; and
  `(C) provide the child a free appropriate public education in accordance with
  part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act and procedural
  safeguards in accordance with the following provisions of section 615 of
  such Act:
  `(i) Subparagraphs (A), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1) of subsection
  (b), and paragraph (2) of such subsection.
  `(ii) Subsection (d), except the portion of paragraph (4) requiring that
  findings and decisions be transmitted to a State advisory panel.
  `(iii) Paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (e). Paragraph (3) of such
  subsection is not applicable to decisions by the University to refuse to
  admit or to dismiss a child, except that, before dismissing any child,
  the University shall give at least 60 days notice to the child's parents
  and to the local educational agency in which the child resides.
  `(iv) Subsection (f).'.
SEC. 113. ESTABLISHMENT OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS.
  Part A of title I of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended
  by section 112 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following
  section:
`SEC. 105. AGREEMENT WITH GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY.
  `(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- The Secretary and Gallaudet University shall
  establish, within 1 year after enactment of the Education of the Deaf Act
  Amendments of 1992, a new agreement governing the operation and national
  mission activities, including construction and provision of equipment,
  of the elementary and secondary education programs at the University. The
  Secretary and the University shall periodically update the agreement as
  determined to be necessary by the Secretary or the University.
  `(b) PROVISIONS OF AGREEMENT- The agreement shall--
  `(1) provide that Federal funds appropriated for the benefit of the Kendall
  Demonstration Elementary School and the Model Secondary School for the
  Deaf will be used only for the purposes for which appropriated and in
  accordance with the applicable provisions of this Act and such agreement;
  `(2) provide that the University shall make an annual report, to be part of
  the report required under section 204, to the Secretary on the operations
  and national mission activities of the elementary and secondary education
  programs, including such other information as the Secretary may consider
  necessary;
  `(3) provide that in the design and construction of any facilities, maximum
  attention will be given to innovative auditory and visual devices and
  installations appropriate for the educational functions of such facilities;
  `(4) provide that any laborer or mechanic employed by any contractor or
  subcontractor in the performance of work on any construction aided by
  Federal funds appropriated for the benefit of the Kendall Demonstration
  Elementary School and the Model Secondary School for the Deaf will be paid
  wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in
  the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with the
  Act of March 3, 1931 (40 U.S.C. 276a-276a-5) commonly referred to as the
  Davis-Bacon Act; and the Secretary of Labor shall have, with respect to the
  labor standards specified in this paragraph, the authority and functions
  set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (5 U.S.C. App.) and
  section 2 of the Act of June 13, 1934 (40 U.S.C. 276c); and
  `(5) include such other conditions as the Secretary or the University
  considers necessary to carry out the purposes of this part.'.
Subtitle C--National Technical Institute for the Deaf
SEC. 121. AGREEMENT FOR NTID.
  Section 112 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(4) of this Act, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `- The Secretary' and inserting `- (1) The Secretary'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
  `(2) The Secretary, and the institution of higher education with which
  the Secretary has an agreement under this section, shall, within 1 year
  after the enactment of the Education of the Deaf Act Amendments of 1992,
  assess the need for modification of the agreement. The Secretary and the
  institution of higher education with which the Secretary has an agreement
  under this section shall also periodically update the agreement as determined
  to be necessary by the Secretary or the institution.';
  (2) in subsection (b)(3), by striking `will make' and all that follows
  through `the Congress' and inserting the following: `will prepare and
  submit to the Secretary an annual report, including an accounting of
  all indirect costs paid to the institution of higher education under the
  agreement with the Secretary, which report the Secretary shall transmit
  to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives,
  and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate,'; and
  (3) in subsection (b) by adding, at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(6) establish a policy of outreach and recruitment to employ and advance in
  employment qualified individuals with disabilities, particularly individuals
  who are deaf or individuals who are hard of hearing.'.
Subtitle D--General Provisions
SEC. 131. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 201 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following paragraph:
  `(1) The term `international student' means an individual who--
  `(A) is not a citizen or national of, or lawfully admitted for permanent
  residence in, the United States;
  `(B) does not provide evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization
  Service that he or she is in the United States for other than temporary
  purposes with the intention of becoming a citizen of, or lawfully admitted
  for permanent residence in, the United States; or
  `(C) is not lawfully admitted for permanent residence in American Samoa,
  Guam, Palau (but only until the Compact of Free Association with Palau
  takes effect), the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands.';
  (2)(A) by striking paragraph (4); and
  (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as paragraphs (4) through
  (7), respectively;
  (3) in paragraph (7) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this section), by
  striking `the Northern' and all that follows and inserting the following:
  `the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Palau (but only
  until the Compact of Free Association with Palau takes effect).'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following paragraphs:
  `(8) The term `NTID' means the National Technical Institute for the Deaf.
  `(9) The term `University' means Gallaudet University.'.
SEC. 132. GIFTS.
  Section 202 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 202. GIFTS.
  `The University and NTID are authorized to receive by gift, devise, bequest,
  purchase, or otherwise, property, both real and personal, for the use of
  the University or NTID, or for the use, as appropriate, for any programs,
  departments, or other units as may be designated in the conveyance or will,
  and to hold, invest, use, or dispose of such property for the purpose
  stated in the conveyance or will.'.
SEC. 133. AUDIT.
  Section 203 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated
  by section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the
  following subsection:
  `(c) LIMITATIONS REGARDING EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- No funds appropriated under this Act for Gallaudet
  University, including the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School and
  the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, or for the National Technical
  Institute for the Deaf may be expended on the following:
  `(A) Alcoholic beverages.
  `(B) Goods or services for personal use.
  `(C) Housing and personal living expenses (but only to the extent such
  expenses are not required by written employment agreement).
  `(D) Lobbying, except that nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to
  prohibit the University and NTID from educating the Congress, the Secretary,
  and others regarding programs, projects, and activities conducted at
  those institutions.
  `(E) Membership in country clubs and social or dining clubs and
  organizations.
  `(2) POLICIES-
  `(A) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the Education
  of the Deaf Act Amendments of 1992, the University and NTID shall develop
  policies, to be applied uniformly, for the allowability of expenditures
  for each institution. These policies should reflect the unique nature of
  these institutions. The principles established by the Office of Management
  and Budget for costs of educational institutions may be used as guidance
  in developing these policies. General principles relating to allowability
  and reasonableness of all costs associated with the operations of the
  institutions shall be addressed. These policies shall be submitted to the
  Secretary for review and comments, and to the Committee on Education and
  Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human
  Resources of the Senate.
  `(B) Policies under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
  `(i) Noninstitutional professional activities.
  `(ii) Fringe benefits.
  `(iii) Interest on loans.
  `(iv) Rental cost of buildings and equipment.
  `(v) Sabbatical leave.
  `(vi) Severance pay.
  `(vii) Travel.
  `(viii) Royalties and other costs for uses of patents.
  `(C) The Secretary is not authorized to add items to those specified in
  subparagraph (B).'.
SEC. 134. REPORTS.
  Section 204 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 204. REPORTS.
  `The Board of Trustees of Gallaudet University and the Board of Trustees
  or other governing body of the institution of higher education with which
  the Secretary has an agreement under section 112 shall prepare and submit
  an annual report to the Secretary, and to the Committee on Education and
  Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human
  Resources of the Senate, not later than 100 days after the end of each
  fiscal year, which shall include the following:
  `(1) The number of students during the preceding academic year who enrolled
  and whether these were first time enrollments, who graduated, who found
  employment, or who left without completing a program of study, reported
  under each of the programs of the University (elementary, secondary,
  preparatory, undergraduate, and graduate) and of NTID.
  `(2) For the preceding academic year, and to the extent possible, the
  following data on individuals who are deaf and from minority backgrounds
  and who are students (at all educational levels) or employees:
  `(A) The number of students enrolled full- and part-time.
  `(B) The number of these students who completed or graduated from each of
  the educational programs.
  `(C) The disposition of these students upon graduation/completion of
  programs at NTID and at the University and its elementary and secondary
  schools in comparison to students from non-minority backgrounds.
  `(D) The number of students needing and receiving support services (such
  as tutoring and  counseling) at all educational levels.
  `(E) The number of recruitment activities by type and location for all
  educational levels.
  `(F) Employment openings/vacancies and grade level/type of job and number
  of these individuals that applied and that were hired.
  `(G) Strategies (such as parent groups and training classes in the
  development of Individualized Education Programs) used by the elementary
  and secondary programs and the extension centers to reach and actively
  involve minority parents in the educational programs of their children
  who are deaf and the number of parents who have been served as a result
  of these activities.
  `(3) The annual audited financial statements of the University and NTID,
  respectively, together with the auditor's report.
  `(4) For the preceding fiscal year, a statement showing the receipts of
  the University and NTID and from what Federal sources, and a statement
  showing the expenditures of each institution by function, activity, and
  administrative and academic unit.
  `(5) A statement showing the use of funds (both corpus and income) provided
  by the Federal Endowment Program under section 207.
  `(6) A statement showing how such Endowment Program is invested, what the
  gains or losses (both realized and unrealized) on such investments were
  for the most recent fiscal year, and what changes were made in investments
  during that year.
  `(7) Such additional information as the Secretary may consider necessary.'.
SEC. 135. MONITORING AND EVALUATION.
  (a) EDUCATION OF THE DEAF ACT- Section 205 of the Education of the Deaf
  Act of 1986, as redesignated by section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended
  to read as follows:
`SEC. 205. MONITORING, EVALUATION, AND REPORTING.
  `(a) ACTIVITIES- The Secretary shall conduct monitoring and evaluation
  activities of the education programs and activities and the administrative
  operations of the University (including the elementary, secondary,
  preparatory, undergraduate, and graduate programs) and of NTID. The Secretary
  may also conduct studies related to the provision of preschool, elementary,
  secondary, and postsecondary education and other related services to
  individuals who are deaf. In carrying out the responsibilities described
  in this section, the Secretary is authorized to employ such consultants
  as may be necessary pursuant to the provisions of section 3109 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(b) REPORT- The Secretary, as part of the annual report required
  under section 426 of the Department of Education Organization Act,
  shall include a description of the monitoring and evaluation activities
  pursuant to subsection (a), together with such recommendations, including
  recommendations for legislation, as the Secretary may consider necessary.
  `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994,
  1995, 1996, and 1997 to carry out the monitoring and evaluation activities
  authorized under this section.'.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the
  Education of the Deaf Act Amendments of 1992, the Secretary of Education
  shall submit a report to Congress regarding progress made by the Department
  of Education in implementing the recommendations of the Commission on
  Education of the Deaf pertaining to the provision of a free and appropriate
  public education to children who are deaf, and children who are hard of
  hearing, and with respect to the establishment of standards for programs
  and personnel to meet the educational, communicative, and psychological
  needs of children who are deaf, and children who are hard of hearing. In
  preparing this report, the Secretary of Education shall solicit input from
  the community of individuals who are deaf, and individuals who are hard
  of hearing.
SEC. 136. LIAISON FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS.
  Section 206 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.' and
  inserting the following: `, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and other
  Federal or non-Federal agencies, institutions, or organizations involved
  with the education or rehabilitation of individuals who are deaf or hard
  of hearing.'; and
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (1);
  (B) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
  (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following paragraph:
  `(2) review research and other activities carried out by the University,
  NTID, and other Federal or non-Federal agencies, institutions, or
  organizations involved with the education or rehabilitation of individuals
  who are deaf or hard of hearing for the purpose of determining overlap
  and opportunities for coordination among such entities; and'.
SEC. 137. FEDERAL ENDOWMENT PROGRAMS.
  The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended by section 101(b)(6)
  of this Act, is amended--
  (1) by striking sections 207 and 208; and
  (2) by inserting after section 206 the following section:
`SEC. 207. FEDERAL ENDOWMENT PROGRAMS FOR GALLAUDET UNIVERSITY AND THE
NATIONAL TECHNICAL INSTITUTE FOR THE DEAF.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAMS-
  `(1) The Secretary and the Board of Trustees of Gallaudet University are
  authorized to establish the Gallaudet University Federal Endowment Fund as a
  permanent endowment fund, in accordance with this section, for the purpose
  of promoting the financial independence of the University. The Secretary
  and the Board of Trustees may enter into such agreements as may be necessary
  to carry out the purposes of this section with respect to the University.
  `(2) The Secretary and the Board of Trustees or other governing body of the
  institution of higher education with which the Secretary has an agreement
  under section 112 are authorized to establish the National Technical
  Institute for the Deaf Federal Endowment Fund as a permanent endowment fund,
  in accordance with this section, for the purpose of promoting the financial
  independence of NTID. The Secretary and the Board or other governing body
  may enter into such agreements as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
  of this section with respect to NTID.
  `(b) FEDERAL PAYMENTS-
  `(1) The Secretary shall, consistent with this section, make payments to
  the Federal endowment funds established under subsection (a)  from amounts
  appropriated under subsection (h) for the fund involved.
  `(2) Subject to the availability of appropriations and the non-Federal
  matching requirements of paragraph (3), the Secretary shall make payments
  to each Federal endowment fund in amounts equal to sums contributed to the
  fund from non-Federal sources (excluding transfers from other endowment
  funds of the institution involved).
  `(3) Effective for fiscal year 1993 and each succeeding fiscal year, for
  any fiscal year in which the sums contributed to the Federal endowment fund
  of the institution involved from non-Federal sources exceed $1,000,000,
  the non-Federal contribution to the Federal endowment fund shall be $2 for
  each Federal dollar provided in excess of $1,000,000 (excluding transfers
  from other endowment funds of the institution involved).
  `(c) INVESTMENTS-
  `(1) Except as provided in subsection (e), the University and NTID,
  respectively, shall invest its Federal endowment fund corpus and income in
  instruments and securities offered through one or more cooperative service
  organizations of operating educational organizations under section 501(f)
  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or in low-risk instruments and
  securities in which a regulated insurance company may invest under the
  laws of the State in which the institution involved is located.
  `(2) In managing the investment of its Federal endowment fund, the University
  or NTID shall exercise the judgment and care, under the prevailing
  circumstances, that a person of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
  would exercise in the management of that person's own business affairs.
  `(3) Neither the University nor NTID may invest its Federal endowment fund
  corpus or income in real estate, or in instruments or securities issued
  by an organization in which an executive officer, a member of the Board
  of Trustees of the University or of the host institution, or a member
  of the Advisory Board of NTID is a controlling shareholder, director, or
  owner within the meaning of Federal securities laws and other applicable
  laws. Neither the University nor NTID may assign, hypothocate, encumber,
  or create a lien on the Federal endowment fund corpus without specific
  written authorization of the Secretary.
  `(d) WITHDRAWALS AND EXPENDITURES-
  `(1) Except as provided in paragraph (3)(B), neither the University nor
  NTID may withdraw or expend any of the corpus of its Federal endowment fund.
  `(2)(A) The University and NTID, respectively, may withdraw or expend
  the income of its Federal endowment fund only for expenses necessary to
  the operation of that institution, including expenses of operations and
  maintenance, administration, academic and support personnel, construction and
  renovation, community and student services programs, technical assistance,
  and research.
  `(B) Neither the University nor NTID may withdraw or expend the income of
  its Federal endowment fund for any commercial purpose.
  `(C) Beginning on October 1, 1992, the University and NTID shall maintain
  records of the income generated from its respective Federal endowment fund
  for the prior fiscal year.
  `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the University and NTID,
  respectively, may, on an annual basis, withdraw or expend not more than
  50 percent of the income generated from its Federal endowment fund from
  the prior fiscal year.
  `(B) The Secretary may permit the University or NTID to withdraw or expend
  a portion of its Federal endowment fund corpus or more than 50 percent
  of the income generated from its Federal endowment fund from the prior
  fiscal year if the institution involved demonstrates, to the Secretary's
  satisfaction, that such withdrawal or expenditure is necessary because of--
  `(i) a financial emergency, such as a pending insolvency or temporary
  liquidity problem;
  `(ii) a life-threatening situation occasioned by natural disaster or
  arson; or
  `(iii) another unusual occurrence or exigent circumstance.
  `(e) INVESTMENT AND EXPENDITURE FLEXIBILITY- The corpus associated with a
  Federal payment (and its non-Federal match) made to the Federal endowment
  fund of the University or NTID shall not be subject to the investment
  limitations of subsection (c)(1) after 10 fiscal years following the fiscal
  year in which the funds are matched, and the income generated from such
  corpus after the tenth fiscal year described in this subsection shall
  not be subject to such investment limitations and to the withdrawal and
  expenditure limitations of subsection (d)(3).
  `(f) RECOVERY OF PAYMENTS- After notice and an opportunity for a hearing,
  the Secretary is authorized to recover any Federal payments under this
  section if the University or NTID--
  `(1) makes a withdrawal or expenditure of the corpus or income of its
  Federal endowment fund that is not consistent with this section;
  `(2) fails to comply with the investment standards and limitations under
  this section; or
  `(3) fails to account properly to the Secretary concerning the investment
  of or expenditures from the Federal endowment fund corpus or income.
  `(g) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section:
  `(1) The term `corpus', with respect to a Federal endowment fund under
  this section, means an amount equal to the Federal payments to such fund,
  amounts contributed to the fund from non-Federal sources, and appreciation
  from capital gains and reinvestment of income.
  `(2) The term `Federal endowment fund' means a fund, or a tax-exempt
  foundation, established and maintained pursuant to this section by the
  University or NTID, as the case may be, for the purpose of generating
  income for the support of the institution involved.
  `(3) The term `income', with respect to a Federal endowment fund under this
  section, means an amount equal to the dividends and interest accruing from
  investments of the corpus of such fund.
  `(4) The term `institution involved' means the University or NTID, as the
  case may be.
  `(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
  `(1) In the case of the University, there are authorized to be appropriated
  for the purposes of this section such sums as may be necessary for each
  of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997.
  `(2) In the case of NTID, there are authorized to be appropriated for the
  purposes of this section such sums as may be necessary for each of the
  fiscal years 1993 through 1997.
  `(3) Amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) or (2) shall remain available
  until expended.
  `(i) EFFECTIVE DATE- The provisions of this section shall take effect as
  if included in the provisions of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986.'.
SEC. 138. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
  The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended by section 137 of this
  Act, is amended by inserting after section 207 the following section:
`SEC. 208. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make grants to institutions of higher
  education that have teacher training programs in deaf education or special
  education for the purpose of providing scholarships to individuals who are
  deaf for careers in deaf education or special education. Such institutions
  shall give priority consideration in the selection of qualified recipients
  of the scholarships to individuals from underrepresented backgrounds,
  particularly minority individuals who are deaf and who are underrepresented
  in the teaching profession. Grants may be used by institutions to assist in
  covering the cost of courses of training or study for such individuals and
  for establishing and maintaining fellowships or traineeships with stipends
  and allowances as may be determined by the Secretary.
  `(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of making grants
  under subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000
  for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the
  fiscal years 1994 through 1997.'.
SEC. 139. INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS.
  The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as amended by section 101(b)(6) of
  this Act, is amended by striking section 210 and inserting the following
  section:
`SEC. 210. INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS.
  `(a) ENROLLMENT- Effective with new admissions for academic year 1993-1994
  and each succeeding academic year, the University (including preparatory,
  undergraduate, and graduate students) and NTID shall limit the enrollment of
  international students to approximately 10 percent of the total postsecondary
  student population enrolled respectively at the University or NTID.
  `(b) TUITION SURCHARGE- Effective with new admissions, the tuition for
  postsecondary international students enrolled in the University (including
  preparatory, undergraduate, and graduate students) or NTID shall include
  a surcharge of 75 percent beginning the  academic year 1993-1994, and  90
  percent beginning the  academic year 1994-1995.
  `(c) REDUCTION OF SURCHARGE- Beginning the academic year 1993-1994 and
  thereafter, the University or NTID may reduce the surcharge under subsection
  (b) to 50 percent if--
  `(A) a student described under subsection (b) is from a developing country;
  `(B) such student is unable to pay the tuition surcharge under subsection
  (b); and
  `(C) such student has made a good faith effort to secure aid through such
  student's government or other sources.
  `(d) DEFINITION- For purposes of subsection (c), the term `developing
  country' means a country that has a 1990 per capita income not in excess
  of $4,000 in 1990 United States dollars.'.
SEC. 140. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 211 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986, as redesignated by
  section 101(b)(6) of this Act, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `fiscal years'
  and all that follows through `1991' and inserting `fiscal years 1993
  through 1997';
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking `part B of title I, relating to'; and
  (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking `part C of title I, relating to';
  (2) in subsection (b), by striking `fiscal years' and all that follows
  through `relating to' and inserting the following: `fiscal years 1993
  through 1997 to carry out the provisions of this Act relating to'; and
  (3) by striking subsection (c).
Subtitle E--Technical Amendments
SEC. 151. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  (a) TERMINOLOGY- The Education of the Deaf Act of 1986 (20 U.S.C. 4301 et
  seq.) is amended--
  (1) by striking `deaf individuals' each place such term appears and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf';
  (2) by striking `deaf people' each place such term appears and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf';
  (3) by striking `deaf children' each place such term appears and inserting
  `children who are deaf';
  (4) by striking `the deaf' each place such term appears and inserting
  `individuals who are deaf'; and
  (5) in section 206 (as redesignated by section 101(b)(6) of this Act),
  in the heading for the section, by striking `FOR THE DEAF'.
  (b) OTHER AMENDMENTS- Section 201 of the Education of the Deaf Act of 1986,
  as redesignated by section 101(b)(6) of this Act and amended by subsection
  (a) of this section, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by striking `thereof' and inserting `therein';
  (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting `or hard-of-hearing' after `children
  who are deaf'; and
  (3) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by section 131(2)(B) of this Act)--
  (A) in the first sentence, in each of subparagraphs (A) through (E),
  by striking the last comma and inserting a semicolon; and
  (B) in the second sentence, by striking `clause' and inserting
  `subparagraph'.
Subtitle F--Effective Dates
SEC. 161. EFFECTIVE DATES.
  The amendments described in this title are made upon October 1, 1992,
  and take effect upon such date.
TITLE II--PROVISIONS REGARDING OTHER ACTS
Subtitle A--Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
SEC. 201. POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION.
  (a) REGIONAL CENTERS- Section 625(a) of the Individuals with Disabilities
  Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1424a(a)) is amended by inserting after the first
  sentence in paragraph (6) the following new sentences: `The Secretary
  shall continue to provide assistance through September 30, 1994, to the
  current grantees operating the four regional centers for the deaf under
  subsection (a) of this section. The Secretary shall continue to provide
  such assistance through September 30, 1995, unless the authorization of
  appropriations for parts C-G of the Act is extended by September 30, 1994.'.
  (b) STUDY- There shall be conducted a General Accounting Office study of the
  four regional centers for the deaf under section 625(a)(2) of the Individuals
  with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1424(a)(2)). The scope of such
  study shall be determined by the Chairpersons and Ranking Minority members
  of the Subcommittee on Disability Policy of the Committee on Labor and
  Human Resources in the Senate, and of the Subcommittee on Select Education
  of the Committee on Education and Labor in the House of Representatives.
SEC. 202. TRAINING PERSONNEL; EDUCATIONAL INTERPRETERS.
  (a) TRAINING PERSONNEL- Section 631(a) of the Individuals with Disabilities
  Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
  following paragraph:
  `(8)(A) In making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary may make grants
  through a separate competition to institutions of higher education, in
  partnership with local educational agencies and center schools for students
  who are deaf, to carry out not less than 4 regional model demonstration
  training programs on deafness and secondary disabilities.
  `(B) Such programs shall provide preservice and inservice training to
  teachers and school administrators, and leadership personnel, in the
  education of students who are deaf and to related services personnel.'.
  (b) EDUCATIONAL INTERPRETERS- Section 631 of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1431) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as subsections (c) through
  (e), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following subsection:
  `(b)(1) The Secretary may make grants to institutions of higher education,
  and other appropriate nonprofit agencies or organizations for the
  establishment or continuation of educational interpreter training programs
  to train personnel to effectively meet the various communication needs
  of elementary and secondary students who are deaf or deaf-blind. To the
  extent feasible, grants shall be geographically dispersed throughout the
  Nation in urban and rural areas.
  `(2) The Secretary may make a grant under paragraph (1) only if the
  applicant for the grant provides an assurance that all interpreters
  receiving training under the grant will be provided training designed
  to develop skills necessary for facilitating effective communication for
  students who are deaf or deaf-blind.
  `(3) In making grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary may provide for
  the training or retraining (including short-term and in-service training)
  of regular education teachers who are involved in providing instruction
  to individuals who are deaf, but who are not certified as teachers of
  such individuals, and other personnel who work with such individuals,
  on the role of educational interpreters.'.
SEC. 203. RESEARCH AND RELATED ACTIVITIES.
  Section 641 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20
  U.S.C. 1441) is amended by adding at the end the following subsection:
  `(h)(1) The Secretary may make grants to institutions of higher education,
  in partnership with other appropriate agencies and organizations such as
  local educational agencies and center schools for students who are deaf, to--
  `(A) conduct research in the unique needs of children and youth, including
  minority children and youth, with disabilities;
  `(B) develop and evaluate specialized instructional methods, materials,
  curricula, and technologies for use with such children and youth; and
  `(C) develop and evaluate assessment techniques, instruments, and strategies
  used to identify, evaluate, and measure the progress of such children
  and youth.
  `(2) Each grantee under this subsection shall provide for the meaningful
  involvement in its project of parents and family members and adult role
  models.'.
Subtitle B--Effective Dates
SEC. 221. EFFECTIVE DATES.
  The amendments described in this title shall take effect on October 1, 1992.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.