 
--H.R.6187--
H.R.6187
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 with respect to international
narcotics
control programs and activities, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `International Narcotics Control Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Authorizations of appropriations.
Sec. 4. Amendments relating to certain authorities and requirements.
Sec. 5. Annual reporting and certification requirements.
Sec. 6. Technical, conforming, and other amendments; repeal of obsolete
provisions.
Sec. 7. Exemption of narcotics-related military assistance for fiscal years
1993 and 1994 from prohibition on assistance for law enforcement agencies.
Sec. 8. Waiver of restrictions for narcotics-related economic assistance.
Sec. 9. Transfers of excess defense articles for counternarcotics purposes.
Sec. 10. Participants in international military education and training
programs.
Sec. 11. Definition of appropriate congressional committees.
Sec. 12. Export-Import Bank financing of sales of defense articles or services.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 482(a)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended by
  striking out `$115,000,000 for fiscal year 1990' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `$147,783,000 for fiscal year 1993 and $171,500,000 for fiscal
  year 1994'.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO CERTAIN AUTHORITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) POLICY STATEMENT- Section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
  is amended by striking out the section designation and section heading
  and subsection (a)(1) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`SEC. 481. POLICY, GENERAL AUTHORITIES, COORDINATION, FOREIGN POLICE ACTIONS,
DEFINITIONS, AND OTHER PROVISIONS.
  `(a) POLICY AND GENERAL AUTHORITIES-
  `(1) STATEMENTS OF POLICY- (A) International narcotics trafficking poses
  an unparalleled transnational threat in today's world, and its suppression
  is among the most important foreign policy objectives of the United States.
  `(B) Under the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, and under the
  United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and
  Psychotropic Substances, the parties are required to criminalize certain
  drug-related activities, provide appropriately severe penalties, and
  cooperate in the extradition of accused offenders.
  `(C) International narcotics control programs should include, as priority
  goals, the suppression of the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in
  narcotic and psychotropic drugs, money laundering, and precursor chemical
  diversion, and the progressive elimination of the illicit cultivation of
  the crops from which narcotic and psychotropic drugs are derived.
  `(D) The international community should provide assistance, where
  appropriate, to those producer and transit countries which require assistance
  in discharging these primary obligations.
  `(E) The objective of the United States in dealing with the problem
  of international money laundering is to ensure that countries adopt
  comprehensive domestic measures against money laundering and cooperate
  with each other in narcotics money laundering investigations, prosecutions,
  and related forfeiture actions.
  `(F) Effective international cooperation is necessary to control the
  illicit cultivation, production, and smuggling of, trafficking in, and
  abuse of narcotic and psychotropic drugs.'.
  (b) AUTHORITY TO CONCLUDE AGREEMENTS- Section 481(a)(2) of that Act is
  amended by inserting `, including reciprocal maritime agreements,' after
  `agreements'.
  (c) COORDINATION OF ALL UNITED STATES ANTINARCOTICS ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN
  COUNTRIES- Section 481(b) of that Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(b) COORDINATION OF ALL UNITED STATES ANTINARCOTICS ASSISTANCE TO FOREIGN
  COUNTRIES-
  `(1) RESPONSIBILITY OF SECRETARY OF STATE- Consistent with subtitle A of
  title I of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988, the Secretary of State shall be
  responsible for coordinating all assistance provided by the United States
  Government to support international efforts to combat illicit narcotics
  production or trafficking.
  `(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing contained in this subsection or section
  489(b) shall be construed to limit or impair the authority or responsibility
  of any other Federal agency with respect to law enforcement, domestic
  security operations, or intelligence activities as defined in Executive
  Order 12333.'.
  (d) MARITIME LAW ENFORCEMENT IN ARCHIPELAGIC WATERS- Section 481(c)(4)
  of that Act is amended by inserting `or archipelagic waters' after `sea'.
  (e) PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION- Section 482(b) of that Act is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(b) PROCUREMENT OF WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION-
  `(1) PROHIBITION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), funds made available
  to carry out this chapter shall not be made available for the procurement
  of weapons or ammunition.
  `(2) EXCEPTIONS- Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to funds for
  the procurement of--
  `(A) weapons or ammunition provided only for the defensive arming of
  aircraft used for narcotics-related purposes, or
  `(B) firearms and related ammunition provided only for defensive purposes
  to employees or contract personnel of the Department of State engaged in
  activities under this chapter,
if, at least 15 days before obligating those funds, the President notifies
the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with the procedures
applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.'.
  (f) REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT-
  (1) RETENTION OF TITLE- Section 484 of that Act is amended to read as
  follows:
`SEC. 484. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
  `(a) RETENTION OF TITLE TO AIRCRAFT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- (A) Except as provided in paragraph (2), any aircraft
  made available to a foreign country under this chapter, or made available
  to a foreign country primarily for narcotics-related purposes under any
  other provision of law, shall be provided only on a lease or loan basis.
  `(B) Subparagraph (A) applies to aircraft made available at any time after
  October 27, 1986 (which was the date of enactment of the International
  Narcotics Control Act of 1986).
  `(2) EXCEPTIONS- (A) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the extent that--
  `(i) the application of that paragraph with respect to particular aircraft
  would be contrary to the national interest of the United States; and
  `(ii) the President notifies the appropriate congressional committees in
  accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
  under section 634A.
  `(B) Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to aircraft made available
  to a foreign country under any provision of law that authorizes property
  that has been civilly or criminally forfeited to the United States to be
  made available to foreign countries.
  `(3) ASSISTANCE FOR LEASING OF AIRCRAFT- (A) For purposes of satisfying
  the requirement of paragraph (1), funds made available for the `Foreign
  Military Financing Program' under section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act
  may be used to finance the leasing of aircraft under chapter 6 of that Act.
  `(B) Section 61(a)(3) of that Act shall not apply with respect to leases so
  financed; rather the entire cost of any such lease (including any renewals)
  shall be an initial, one time payment of the amount which would be the
  sales price for the aircraft if they were sold under section 21(a)(1)(B)
  or section 22 of that Act (as appropriate).
  `(C) To the extent that aircraft so leased were acquired under chapter 5
  of that Act, funds used pursuant to this paragraph to finance such leases
  shall be credited to the Special Defense Acquisition Fund under chapter
  5 of that Act (excluding the amount of funds that reflects the charges
  described in section 21(e)(1) of that Act). The funds described in the
  parenthetical clause of the preceding sentence shall be available for
  payments consistent with sections 37(a) and 43(b) of that Act.'.
  (2) PERMISSIBLE USES OF AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT- Chapter 8 of part
  I of that Act is amended--
  (A) by striking out the section designation and section heading of
  section 489;
  (B) in subsection (a) of section 489, by striking out `IN GENERAL' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `PERMISSIBLE USES OF AIRCRAFT AND OTHER EQUIPMENT';
  (C) in subsection (b) of section 489 by striking out `subsection (e)'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `section 489(a)';
  (D) by redesignating subsections (a) and (b) of section 489 as subsections
  (b) and (c) of section 484 and inserting those subsections after subsection
  (a) of section 484 (as amended by paragraph (1) of this subsection); and
  (E) by repealing subsections (c) and (d) of section 489.
  (3) RECORDS OF AIRCRAFT USE- Section 485 of that Act is amended by striking
  out `Secretary of State' both places it appears and inserting in lieu
  thereof `President'.
  (g) ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES- Section 488
  of that Act is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 488. LIMITATIONS ON ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY AND CONSTRUCTION
OF FACILITIES.
  `(a) ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY-
  `(1) PROHIBITION- Funds made available to carry out this chapter may not be
  used to acquire (by purchase or other means) any land or other real property
  for use by foreign military, paramilitary, or law enforcement forces.
  `(2) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN LEASES- Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the
  acquisition of real property by lease of a duration not to exceed 2 years.
  `(3) REPORT- The Secretary of State shall provide to the Committee on
  Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
  Foreign Relations of the Senate within 30 days after the end of each
  quarter of the fiscal year a detailed report on all leases entered into
  pursuant to paragraph (2), including the cost and duration of such lease,
  a description of the property leased, and the purpose for which such lease
  was entered into.
  `(b) CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES-
  `(1) LIMITATION- Funds made available to carry out this chapter may not
  be used for construction of facilities for use by foreign military,
  paramilitary, or law enforcement forces unless, at least 15 days
  before obligating funds for such construction, the President notifies
  the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with procedures
  applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
  `(2) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the construction of
  facilities which would require the obligation of less than $750,000 under
  this chapter.'.
SEC. 5. ANNUAL REPORTING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) REVISION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1993 AND 1994- Chapter 8 of
  part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by the preceding
  section of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`SEC. 489. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR FISCAL YEARS 1993 AND 1994.
  `(a) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT- Not later than April
  1 of each year, the President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of
  Representatives, and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate,
  a report containing the following:
  `(1) For each country that received assistance under this chapter for
  either of the 2 preceding fiscal years, a report on the extent to which
  the country has--
  `(A) met the goals and objectives of the United Nations Convention Against
  Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, including
  action on such issues as illicit cultivation, production, distribution, sale,
  transport, and financing, and money laundering, asset seizure, extradition,
  mutual legal assistance, law enforcement and transit cooperation, precursor
  chemical control, and demand reduction;
  `(B) accomplished the goals described in an applicable bilateral narcotics
  agreement with the  United States or a multilateral agreement; and
  `(C) taken legal and law enforcement measures to prevent and punish public
  corruption, especially by senior government officials, that facilitates
  the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs
  and other controlled substances, or that discourages the investigation or
  prosecution of such acts.
  `(2)(A) A description of the policies adopted, agreements concluded,
  and programs implemented by the Department of State in pursuit of its
  delegated responsibilities for international narcotics control, including
  appropriate information on the status of negotiations between the United
  States and other countries on updated extradition treaties, mutual legal
  assistance treaties, precursor chemical controls, money laundering, and
  agreements pursuant to section 2015 of the International Narcotics Act of
  1986 (relating to interdiction procedures for vessels of foreign registry).
  `(B) Information on multilateral and bilateral strategies with respect
  to money laundering pursued by the Department of State, the Department of
  Justice, the Department of the Treasury, and other relevant United States
  Government agencies, either collectively or individually, to ensure the
  cooperation of foreign governments with respect to narcotics-related money
  laundering and to demonstrate that all United States Government agencies
  are pursuing a common strategy with respect to major money laundering
  countries. The report shall include specific detail to demonstrate that
  all United States Government agencies are pursuing a common strategy
  with respect to achieving international cooperation against money
  laundering and are pursuing a common strategy with respect to major money
  laundering countries, including a summary of United States objectives on
  a country-by-country basis.
  `(3) The identity of those countries which are--
  `(A) major illicit drug producing countries or major drug-transit countries
  as determined under section 490(h);
  `(B) the significant direct or indirect sources of narcotics and psychotropic
  drugs and other controlled substances significantly affecting the United
  States;
  `(C) major sources of precursor chemicals used in the production of illicit
  narcotics; or
  `(D) major money laundering countries.
  `(4) In addition, for each country identified pursuant to paragraph (3),
  the following:
  `(A) A description of the plans, programs, and timetables adopted by such
  country, including efforts to meet the objectives of the United Nations
  Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
  Substances, and a discussion of the adequacy of the legal and law enforcement
  measures taken and the accomplishments achieved in accord with those plans.
  `(B) Whether as a matter of government policy or practice, such country
  encourages or facilitates the illicit production or distribution of narcotic
  or psychotropic drugs or other controlled substances or the laundering of
  proceeds from illegal drug transactions; and whether any senior official
  of the government of such country engages in, encourages, or facilitates
  the illicit production or distribution of such drugs or substances, or
  the laundering of proceeds from illegal drug transactions.
  `(5) In addition, for each country identified pursuant to paragraph
  (3)(A) or (3)(B), a detailed status report, with such information as
  can be reliably obtained, on the narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other
  controlled substances which are being cultivated, produced, or processed
  in or transported through such country, noting significant changes in
  conditions, such as increases or decreases in the illicit cultivation and
  manufacture of and traffic in such drugs and substances.
  `(6) In addition, for those countries identified pursuant to paragraph
  (3)(C)--
  `(A) which countries are parties to international agreements on a method
  for maintaining records of transactions of an established list of precursor
  and essential chemicals;
  `(B) which countries have established a procedure by which such records
  may be made available to United States law enforcement authorities; and
  `(C) which countries have enacted national chemical control legislation
  which would impose specific recordkeeping and reporting requirements for
  listed chemicals, establish a system of permits or declarations for imports
  and exports of listed chemicals, and authorize government officials to
  seize or suspend shipments of listed chemicals.
  `(7) In addition, for those countries identified pursuant to paragraph
  (3)(D) the following:
  `(A)(i) Which countries have financial institutions engaging in currency
  transactions involving international narcotics trafficking proceeds that
  include significant amounts of United States currency or currency derived
  from illegal drug sales in the United States or that otherwise significantly
  affect the United States;
  `(ii) which countries identified pursuant to clause (i) have not reached
  agreement with the United States authorities on a mechanism for exchanging
  adequate records in connection with narcotics investigations and proceedings;
  and
  `(iii) which countries identified pursuant to clause (ii)--
  `(I) are negotiating in good faith with the United States to establish
  such a record-exchange mechanism, or
  `(II) have adopted laws or regulations that ensure the availability
  to appropriate United States Government personnel and those of other
  governments of adequate records in connection with narcotics investigations
  and proceedings.
  `(B) Which countries--
  `(i) have ratified the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic
  in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and are taking steps to
  implement that Convention and other applicable agreements and conventions
  such as the recommendations of the Financial Action Task Force, the policy
  directive of the European Community, the legislative guidelines of the
  Organization of American States, and other similar declarations; and
  `(ii) have entered into bilateral agreements for the exchange of information
  on money-laundering with countries other than the United States.
  `(C) Findings on each country's adoption of law and regulations considered
  essential to prevent narcotics-related money laundering. Such findings
  shall include whether a country has--
  `(i) criminalized narcotics money laundering;
  `(ii) required banks and other financial institutions to know and record
  the identity of customers engaging in significant transactions, including
  the recording of large currency transactions at thresholds appropriate to
  that country's economic situation;
  `(iii) required banks and other financial institutions to maintain, for an
  adequate time, records necessary to reconstruct significant transactions
  through financial institutions in order to be able to respond quickly
  to information requests from appropriate government authorities in
  narcotics-related money laundering cases;
  `(iv) required or allowed financial institutions to report suspicious
  transactions;
  `(v) established systems for identifying, tracing, freezing, seizing,
  and forfeiting narcotics-related assets;
  `(vi) enacted laws for the sharing of seized narcotics assets with other
  governments;
  `(vii) cooperated, when requested, with appropriate law enforcement agencies
  of other governments investigating financial crimes related to narcotics; and
  `(viii) addressed the problem on international transportation of
  illegal-source currency and monetary instruments.
The report shall also detail instances of refusals to cooperate with foreign
governments, and any actions taken by the United States Government and any
international organization to address such obstacles, including the imposition
of sanctions or penalties.
  `(b) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- At the time that the report required by subsection (a) is
  submitted each year, the Secretary of State, in consultation with appropriate
  United States Government agencies, shall report to the appropriate committees
  of the Congress on the assistance provided or proposed to be provided by
  the United States Government during the preceding fiscal year, the current
  fiscal year, and the next fiscal year to support international efforts to
  combat illicit narcotics production or trafficking.
  `(2) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED- Each report pursuant to this subsection
  shall--
  `(A) specify the amount and nature of the assistance provided or to be
  provided;
  `(B) include, for each country identified in subsection (a)(3)(A),
  information from the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Customs Service,
  and the Coast Guard describing in detail--
  `(i) the assistance provided or to be provided to such country by that
  agency, and
  `(ii) the assistance provided or to be provided to that agency by such
  country,
with respect to narcotic control efforts during the preceding fiscal year,
the current fiscal year, and the next fiscal year; and
  `(C) list all transfers, which were made by the United States Government
  during the preceding fiscal year, to a foreign country for narcotics
  control purposes of any property seized by or otherwise forfeited to the
  United States Government in connection with narcotics-related activity,
  including an estimate of the fair market value and physical condition of
  each item of property transferred.
  `(c) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
  `(1) the term `precursor chemical' has the same meaning as the term
  `listed chemical' has under paragraph (33) of section 102 of the Controlled
  Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 902(33)); and
  `(2) the term `major money laundering country' means a country whose
  financial institutions engage in currency transactions involving significant
  amounts of proceeds from international narcotics trafficking.
  `(d) EFFECTIVE DATES OF SECTIONS- This section applies only during fiscal
  years 1993 and 1994. Section 489A does not apply during those fiscal years.
`SEC. 489A. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1994.
  `(a) INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL STRATEGY REPORT-
  `(1) REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT- Not later than March 1 of each year, the
  President shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives,
  and to the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, a report on United
  States policy to establish and encourage an international strategy to
  prevent the illicit cultivation and manufacture of and traffic in narcotic
  and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances.
  `(2) CONTENTS- Each report pursuant to this subsection shall include
  the following:
  `(A) A description of the policies adopted, agreements concluded, and
  programs implemented by the Department of State in pursuit of its delegated
  responsibilities for international narcotics control, including policy
  development, bilateral and multilateral funding and other support for
  international narcotics control projects, representations of the United
  States Government to international organizations and agencies concerned
  with narcotics control, training of foreign enforcement personnel,
  coordination of the international narcotics control activities of United
  States Government agencies, and technical assistance to international
  demand reduction programs.
  `(B) A description of the activities of the United States in international
  financial institutions to combat the entry of narcotic and psychotropic
  drugs and other controlled substances into the United States for the fiscal
  year just ended, for the current fiscal year, and for the next fiscal year.
  `(C) The identity of those countries which are the significant direct or
  indirect sources of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
  substances significantly affecting the United States. For each such country,
  each report shall include the following:
  `(i) A detailed status report, with such information as can be reliably
  obtained, on the narcotic or psychotropic drugs or other controlled
  substances which are being cultivated, produced, or processed in or
  transported through such country, noting significant changes in conditions,
  such as increases or decreases in the illicit cultivation and manufacture
  of and traffic in such drugs and substances.
  `(ii) A description of the assistance under this chapter and the other kinds
  of United States assistance which such country received in the preceding
  fiscal year, which are planned for such country for the current fiscal
  year, and which are proposed for such country for the next fiscal year,
  with an analysis of the impact that the furnishing of each such kind of
  assistance has had or is expected to have on the illicit cultivation and
  manufacture of and traffic in narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other
  controlled substances in such country.
  `(iii) A description of the plans, programs, and timetables adopted by
  such country for the progressive elimination of the illicit cultivation
  of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances, and
  a discussion of the adequacy of the legal and law enforcement measures
  taken and the accomplishments achieved in accord with these plans.
  `(iv) A discussion of the extent to which such country has cooperated
  with United States narcotics control efforts through the extradition or
  prosecution of drug traffickers, and, where appropriate, a description of
  the status of negotiations with such country to negotiate a new or updated
  extradition treaty relating to narcotics offenses.
  `(D) For each major illicit drug producing country for which the President
  is proposing to furnish United States assistance for the next fiscal year,
  a determination by the President of the maximum reductions in illicit drug
  production which are achievable during the next fiscal year. Each such
  determination shall be expressed in numerical terms, such as the number of
  acres of illicitly cultivated controlled substances which can be eradicated.
  `(E) For each major illicit drug producing country which received United
  States assistance for the preceding fiscal year, the actual reductions in
  illicit drug production achieved by that country during such fiscal year.
  `(F) Specific comments and recommendations by appropriate Federal agencies
  involved in drug enforcement, including the United States Customs Service
  and the Drug Enforcement Administration, with respect to the degree to
  which countries listed in the report have, during the preceding year,
  cooperated fully with such agencies (as described in section 490A(b)).
  `(G) A description of the United States assistance for the preceding
  fiscal year which was denied, pursuant to section 490 or 490A, to each
  major illicit drug producing country and each major drug-transit country.
  `(b) MIDYEAR REPORT- Not later than September 1 of each year, the President
  shall transmit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and to the
  Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, a complete and detailed midyear
  report on the activities and operations carried out under this chapter prior
  to such date. Such midyear report shall include the status of each agreement
  concluded prior to such date with other countries to carry out this chapter.
  `(c) ANNUAL REPORTS ON ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- At the time that the report required by subsection (a)
  is submitted each year, the Secretary of State, in consultation with
  appropriate United States Government agencies, shall report to the
  appropriate committees of the Congress on the assistance provided by
  the United States Government during the preceding fiscal year to support
  international efforts to combat illicit narcotics production or trafficking.
  `(2) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED- Each report pursuant to this subsection
  shall--
  `(A) specify the amount and nature of the assistance provided;
  `(B) include, for each country which is a significant direct or indirect
  source of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances
  significantly affecting the United States, a section prepared by the Drug
  Enforcement Administration, a section prepared by the Customs Service,
  and a section prepared by the Coast Guard, which describes in detail--
  `(i) the assistance provided or to be provided (as the case may be) to
  such country by that agency, and
  `(ii) the assistance provided or to be provided (as the case may be)
  to that agency by such country,
with respect to narcotic control efforts during the preceding fiscal year,
the current fiscal year, and the next fiscal year; and
  `(C) list all transfers, which were made by the United States Government
  during the preceding fiscal year, to a foreign country for narcotics
  control purposes of any property seized by or otherwise forfeited to the
  United States Government in connection with narcotics-related activity,
  including an estimate of the fair market value and physical condition of
  each item of property transferred.
`SEC. 490. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES FOR FISCAL YEARS 1993 AND 1994.
  `(a) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL ASSISTANCE AND OPPOSITION TO MULTILATERAL
  DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE- Fifty percent of the United States assistance
  allocated each fiscal year in the report required by section 653 for each
  major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country (as
  determined under subsection (h)) shall be withheld from obligation and
  expenditure, except as provided in subsection (b). This paragraph shall
  not apply with respect to a country if the President determines that its
  application to that country would be contrary to the national interest of the
  United States, except that any such determination shall not take effect until
  at least 15 days after the President submits written notification of that
  determination to the appropriate congressional committees in accordance with
  the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications under section 634A.
  `(2) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
  the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development
  bank  to vote, on and after April 1 of each year, against any loan or
  other utilization of the funds of their respective institution to or for
  any major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country
  (as determined under subsection (h)), except as provided in subsection
  (b). For purposes of this paragraph, the term `multilateral development
  bank' means the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
  the International Development Association, the Inter-American Development
  Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, and the
  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
  `(b) CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES-
  `(1) WHAT MUST BE CERTIFIED- Subject to subsection (d), the assistance
  withheld from a country pursuant to subsection (a)(1) may be obligated
  and expended, and the requirement of subsection (a)(2) to vote against
  multilateral development bank assistance to a country shall not apply,
  if the President determines and certifies to the Congress, at the time of
  the submission of the report required by section 489(a), that--
  `(A) during the previous year the country has cooperated fully with the
  United States, or has taken adequate steps on its own, to achieve full
  compliance with the goals and objectives established by the United Nations
  Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic
  Substances; or
  `(B) for a country that would not otherwise qualify for certification under
  subparagraph (A), the vital national interests of the United States require
  that the assistance withheld pursuant to subsection (a)(1) be provided
  and that the United States not vote against multilateral development bank
  assistance for that country pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
  `(2) CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING COOPERATION- In making the determination
  described in paragraph (1)(A), the President shall consider the extent to
  which the country has--
  `(A) met the goals and objectives of the United Nations Convention Against
  Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, including
  action on such issues as illicit cultivation, production, distribution, sale,
  transport and financing, and money laundering, asset seizure, extradition,
  mutual legal assistance, law enforcement and transit cooperation, precursor
  chemical control, and demand reduction;
  `(B) accomplished the goals described in an applicable bilateral narcotics
  agreement with the United States or a multilateral agreement; and
  `(C) taken legal and law enforcement measures to prevent and punish public
  corruption, especially by senior government officials, that facilitates
  the production, processing, or shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs
  and other controlled substances, or that discourages the investigation or
  prosecution of such acts.
  `(3) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN NATIONAL INTEREST CERTIFICATION- If
  the President makes a certification with respect to a country pursuant to
  paragraph (1)(B), the President shall include in such certification--
  `(A) a full and complete description of the vital national interests placed
  at risk if United States bilateral assistance to that country is terminated
  pursuant to this section and multilateral development bank assistance is
  not provided to such country; and
  `(B) a statement weighing the risk described in subparagraph (A) against
  the risks posed to the vital national interests of the United States by
  the failure of such country to cooperate fully with the United States in
  combating narcotics or to take adequate steps to combat narcotics on its own.
  `(c) LICIT OPIUM PRODUCING COUNTRIES- The President may make a certification
  under subsection (b)(1)(A) with respect to a major illicit drug producing
  country, or major drug-transit country, that is a producer of licit opium
  only if the President determines that such country has taken adequate steps
  to prevent significant diversion of its licit cultivation and production
  into the illicit market, maintains production and stockpiles at levels
  no higher than those consistent with licit market demand, and prevents
  illicit cultivation and production.
  `(d) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- Subsection (e) shall apply if, within 45
  calendar days after receipt of a certification submitted under subsection
  (b) at the time of submission of the report required by section 489(a),
  the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving the determination of
  the President contained in such certification.
  `(e) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE FOR COUNTRIES DECERTIFIED- If the President does
  not make a certification under subsection (b) with respect to a country or
  the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving such certification, then
  until such time as the conditions specified in subsection (f) are satisfied--
  `(1) funds may not be obligated for United States assistance for that
  country, and funds previously obligated for United States assistance for
  that country may not be expended for the purpose of providing assistance
  for that country; and
  `(2) the requirement to vote against multilateral development bank assistance
  pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to that country,
  without regard to the date specified in that subsection.
  `(f) RECERTIFICATION- Subsection (e) shall apply to a country described
  in that subsection until--
  `(1) the President, at the time of submission of the report required
  by section 489(a), makes a certification under subsection (b)(1)(A) or
  (b)(1)(B) with respect to that country, and the Congress does not enact
  a joint resolution under subsection (d) disapproving the determination of
  the President contained in that certification; or
  `(2) the President, at any other time, makes the certification described
  in subsection (b)(1)(B) with respect to that country, except that this
  paragraph applies only if either--
  `(A) the President also certifies that--
  `(i) that country has undergone a fundamental change in government, or
  `(ii) there has been a fundamental change in the conditions that were
  the reason--
  `(I) why the President had not made a certification with respect to that
  country under subsection (b)(1)(A), or
  `(II) if he had made such a certification and the Congress enacted a joint
  resolution disapproving the determination contained in the certification,
  why the Congress enacted that joint resolution; or
  `(B) the Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the determination
  contained in the certification under subsection (b)(1)(B).
Any certification under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2) shall discuss the
justification for the certification.
  `(g) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PROCEDURES-
  `(1) SENATE- Any joint resolution under this section shall be considered
  in the Senate in accordance with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
  International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976.
  `(2) HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES- For the purpose of expediting the
  consideration and enactment of joint resolutions under this section,
  a motion to proceed to the consideration of any such joint resolution
  after it has been reported by the appropriate committee shall be treated
  as highly privileged in the House of Representatives.
  `(h) DETERMINING MAJOR DRUG-TRANSIT AND MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING
  COUNTRIES FOR FISCAL YEARS 1993 AND 1994- Not later than January 1 of each
  year, the President shall notify the appropriate committees of the Congress
  of which countries have been determined to be major drug-transit countries,
  and which countries have been determined to be major illicit drug producing
  countries, for purposes of this Act.
  `(i) EFFECTIVE DATES OF SECTIONS- This section applies only during fiscal
  years 1993 and 1994. During those fiscal years, section 490A does not
  apply and the definitions provided in section 481(e)(2) and (5) do not apply.
`SEC. 490A. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION PROCEDURES AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1994.
  `(a) WITHHOLDING OF BILATERAL ASSISTANCE AND OPPOSITION TO MULTILATERAL
  DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) BILATERAL ASSISTANCE- Fifty percent of the United States assistance
  allocated each fiscal year in the report required by section 653 for each
  major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country shall be
  withheld from obligation and expenditure, except as provided in subsection
  (b).
  `(2) MULTILATERAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct
  the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development
  bank to vote, on and after March 1 of each year, against any loan or
  other utilization of the funds of their respective institution to or for
  any major illicit drug producing country or major drug-transit country,
  except as provided in subsection (b). For purposes of this paragraph,
  the term `multilateral development bank' means the International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development, the International Development Association,
  the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African
  Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
  `(b) CERTIFICATION PROCEDURE-
  `(1) WHAT MUST BE CERTIFIED- Subject to subsection (d), the assistance
  withheld from a country pursuant to subsection (a)(1) may be obligated
  and expended, and the requirement of subsection (a)(2) to vote against
  multilateral development bank assistance to a country shall not apply,
  if the President determines and certifies to the Congress, at the time of
  the submission of the report required by section 489A(a), that--
  `(A) during the previous year the country has cooperated fully with the
  United States, or has taken adequate steps on its own--
  `(i) in satisfying the goals agreed to in an applicable bilateral narcotics
  agreement with the United States (as described in paragraph (2)) or a
  multilateral agreement which achieves the objectives of paragraph (2),
  `(ii) in preventing narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
  substances produced or processed, in whole or in part, in such country
  or transported through such country, from being sold illegally within
  the jurisdiction of such country to United States Government personnel
  or their dependents or from being transported, directly or indirectly,
  into the United States,
  `(iii) in preventing and punishing the laundering in that country of
  drug-related profits or drug-related moneys, and
  `(iv) in preventing and punishing bribery and other forms of public
  corruption which facilitate the production, processing, or shipment of
  narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances, or which
  discourage the investigation and prosecution of such acts; or
  `(B) for a country that would not otherwise qualify for certification under
  subparagraph (A), the vital national interests of the United States require
  that the assistance withheld pursuant to subsection (a)(1) be provided
  and that the United States not vote against multilateral development bank
  assistance for that country pursuant to subsection (a)(2).
  `(2) BILATERAL NARCOTICS AGREEMENT- A bilateral narcotics agreement referred
  to in paragraph (1)(A)(i) is an agreement between the United States and
  a foreign country in which the foreign country agrees to take specific
  activities, including, where applicable, efforts to--
  `(A) reduce drug production, drug consumption, and drug trafficking within
  its territory, including activities to address illicit crop eradication
  and crop substitution;
  `(B) increase drug interdiction and enforcement;
  `(C) increase drug treatment;
  `(D) increase the identification of and elimination of illicit drug
  laboratories;
  `(E) increase the identification of, and elimination of trafficking in,
  essential precursor chemicals for use in the illicit production of narcotic
  and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances;
  `(F) increase cooperation with United States drug enforcement officials; and
  `(G) where applicable, increase participation in extradition treaties,
  mutual legal assistance provisions directed at money laundering, sharing
  of evidence, and other initiatives for cooperative drug enforcement.
  `(3) REQUIREMENT FOR NARCOTICS AGREEMENT FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES- A
  country which in the previous year was designated as a major illicit drug
  producing country or a major drug-transit country may not be determined
  to be cooperating fully under paragraph (1)(A) unless it has in place a
  bilateral narcotics agreement with the United States or a multilateral
  agreement which achieves the objectives of paragraph (2).
  `(4) INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN CERTIFICATION- If the President makes
  a certification with respect to a country pursuant to paragraph (1)(B),
  the President shall include in such certification--
  `(A) a full and complete description of the vital national interests placed
  at risk if United States bilateral assistance to that country is terminated
  pursuant to this section and multilateral development bank assistance is
  not provided to such country; and
  `(B) a statement weighing the risk described in subparagraph (A) against
  the risks posed to the vital national interests of the United States by
  the failure of such country to cooperate fully with the United States in
  combating narcotics or to take adequate steps to combat narcotics on its own.
  `(5) LICIT OPIUM PRODUCING COUNTRIES- The President may make a certification
  under paragraph (1)(A) with respect to a major illicit drug producing
  country, or major drug-transit country, that is a producer of licit opium
  only if the President determines that such country has taken adequate steps
  to prevent significant diversion of its licit cultivation and production
  into the illicit market, maintains production and stockpiles at levels
  no higher than those consistent with licit market demand, and prevents
  illicit cultivation and production.
  `(c) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED- In determining whether to make the
  certification required by subsection (b) with respect to a country, the
  President shall consider the following:
  `(1) Have the actions of the government of that country resulted in the
  maximum reductions in illicit drug production which were determined to be
  achievable pursuant to section 489A(a)(2)(D)? In the case of a major illicit
  drug producing country, the President shall give foremost consideration,
  in determining whether to make the determination required by subsection
  (b)(1)(A), to whether the government of that country has taken actions
  which have resulted in such reductions.
  `(2) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement measures to
  enforce in its territory, to the maximum extent possible, the elimination
  of illicit cultivation and the suppression of illicit manufacturing of
  and trafficking in narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled
  substances, as evidenced by seizures of such drugs and substances and of
  illicit laboratories and the arrest and prosecution of violators involved
  in the traffic in such drugs and substances significantly affecting the
  United States?
  `(3) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement steps necessary
  to eliminate, to the maximum extent possible, the laundering in that
  country of drug-related profits or drug-related moneys, as evidenced by--
  `(A) the enactment and enforcement by that government of laws prohibiting
  such conduct;
  `(B) that government entering into, and cooperating under the terms of,
  mutual legal assistance agreements with the United States governing (but
  not limited to) money laundering; and
  `(C) the degree to which that government otherwise cooperates with United
  States law enforcement authorities on anti-money laundering efforts?
  `(4) Has that government taken the legal and law enforcement steps necessary
  to eliminate, to the maximum extent possible, bribery and other forms of
  public corruption which facilitate the illicit production, processing, or
  shipment of narcotic and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances,
  or which discourage the investigation and prosecution of such acts, as
  evidenced by the enactment and enforcement of laws prohibiting such conduct?
  `(5) Has that government, as a matter of government policy or practice,
  encouraged or facilitated the illicit production or distribution of narcotic
  and psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances?
  `(6) Does any senior official of that government engage in, encourage,
  or facilitate the illicit production or distribution of narcotic and
  psychotropic drugs and other controlled substances?
  `(7) Has that government investigated aggressively all cases in which
  any member of an agency of the United States Government engaged in drug
  enforcement activities has been the victim, since January 1, 1985, of acts
  or threats of violence, inflicted by or with the complicity of any law
  enforcement or other officer of such country or any political subdivision
  thereof, and energetically sought to bring the perpetrators of such offense
  or offenses to justice?
  `(8) Having been requested to do so by the United States Government,
  does that government fail to provide reasonable cooperation to lawful
  activities of United States drug enforcement agents, including the refusal
  of permission to such agents engaged in interdiction of aerial smuggling
  into the United States to pursue suspected aerial smugglers a reasonable
  distance into the airspace of the requested country?
  `(9) Has that government made necessary changes in legal codes in order to
  enable law enforcement officials to move more effectively against narcotics
  traffickers, such as new conspiracy laws and new asset seizure laws?
  `(10) Has that government expeditiously processed United States extradition
  requests relating to narcotics trafficking?
  `(11) Has that government refused to protect or give haven to any known
  drug traffickers, and has it expeditiously processed extradition requests
  relating to narcotics trafficking made by other countries?
  `(d) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW- Subsection (e) shall apply if, within 45 days
  of continuous session (within the meaning of section 601(b)(1) of the
  International Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976)
  after receipt of a certification under subsection (b), the Congress enacts
  a joint resolution disapproving the determination of the President contained
  in such certification.
  `(e) DENIAL OF ASSISTANCE FOR COUNTRIES DECERTIFIED- If the President does
  not make a certification under subsection (b) with respect to a country or
  the Congress enacts a joint resolution disapproving such certification,
  then until such time as the conditions specified in subsection (f)(1)
  are satisfied--
  `(1) funds may not be obligated for United States assistance for that
  country, and funds previously obligated for United States assistance for
  that country may not be expended for the purpose of providing assistance
  for that country; and
  `(2) the requirement to vote against multilateral development bank assistance
  pursuant to subsection (a)(2) shall apply with respect to that country,
  without regard to the date specified in that subsection.
  `(f) RECERTIFICATION-
  `(1) TIME OF RECERTIFICATION; CONGRESSIONAL ACTION- Subsection (e) shall
  apply to a country described in that subsection until--
  `(A) the President makes a certification under subsection (b) with respect
  to that country, and the Congress does not enact a joint resolution under
  subsection (d) disapproving the determination of the President contained
  in that certification; or
  `(B) the President submits, at any other time, a certification described in
  subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (b)(1) with respect to such country,
  and the Congress enacts a joint resolution approving the determination of
  the President contained in that certification.
  `(2) CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW PROCEDURES- (A) Any joint resolution under this
  section shall be considered in the Senate in accordance with the provisions
  of section 601(b) of the International Security Assistance and Arms Export
  Control Act of 1976.
  `(B) For the purpose of expediting the consideration and enactment
  of joint resolutions under this section, a motion to proceed to the
  consideration of any such joint resolution after it has been reported by
  the appropriate committee shall be treated as highly privileged in the
  House of Representatives.
  `(g) DETERMINING MAJOR DRUG-TRANSIT AND MAJOR ILLICIT DRUG PRODUCING
  COUNTRIES AFTER SEPTEMBER 30, 1994-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF GUIDELINES- For each calendar year, the Secretary of
  State, after consultation with the appropriate committees of the Congress,
  shall establish numerical standards and other guidelines for determining
  which countries will be considered to be major drug-transit countries
  under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 481(e)(5).
  `(2) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF PRELIMINARY STANDARDS- Not later than September 1
  of each year, the Secretary of State shall make a preliminary determination
  of the numerical standards and other guidelines to be used pursuant to
  paragraph (1) with respect to that year and shall notify the appropriate
  committees of the Congress of those standards and guidelines.
  `(3) NOTICE TO CONGRESS OF PRELIMINARY DETERMINATIONS- Not later than
  October 1 of each year, the Secretary of State shall notify the appropriate
  committees of the Congress of--
  `(A) which countries have been determined to be major drug-transit countries
  for that year under the numerical standards and other guidelines developed
  pursuant to this subsection; and
  `(B) which countries have been determined to be major illicit drug producing
  countries for that year.'.
  (b) DEFINITION OF UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE- Paragraph (4) of section 481(i)
  of that Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(4) the term `United States assistance' means--
  `(A) any assistance under this Act (including programs under title IV
  of chapter 2, relating to the Overseas Private Investment Corporation),
  other than--
  `(i) assistance under this chapter,
  `(ii) any other narcotics-related assistance under this part (including
  chapter 4 of part II), but any such assistance provided under this clause
  shall be subject to the prior notification procedures applicable to
  reprogrammings pursuant to section 634A of this Act,
  `(iii) disaster relief assistance, including any assistance under chapter
  9 of this part,
  `(iv) assistance which involves the provision of food (including monetization
  of food) or medicine, and
  `(v) assistance for refugees;
  `(B) sales, or financing on any terms, under the Arms Export Control Act;
  `(C) the provision of agricultural commodities, other than food, under
  the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954; and
  `(D) financing under the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945;'.
SEC. 6. TECHNICAL, CONFORMING, AND OTHER AMENDMENTS; REPEAL OF OBSOLETE
PROVISIONS.
  (a) STATUTORY REFERENCES TO ANNUAL REPORTS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS-
  After September 30, 1994, any reference in any provision of law to section
  489 or 490 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall be deemed to
  be a reference to the corresponding provision of section 489A or 490A,
  respectively, unless the context requires otherwise. Any reference in
  any provision of law enacted before the date of enactment of this Act
  to section 481(e) or section 481(i) of that Act shall be deemed to be a
  reference to section 489 or section 481(e) (as amended by subsection (b)(3)
  of this section), respectively; and any reference in any provision of law
  enacted before the date of enactment of this Act to section 481(h) of that
  Act shall be deemed, as of October 1, 1992, to be a reference to section 490.
  (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT- Chapter
  8 of part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended as follows:
  (1) Section 481(d)(3) is amended by striking out `subsection (e)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `section 489(a)'.
  (2) Subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), (j), and (k) of section 481 are repealed.
  (3) Subsection (i) of section 481 is amended by striking out `(i) As used
  in this section--' and inserting in lieu thereof `(e) DEFINITIONS- Except
  as provided in sections 490(h) and (i) with respect to the definition
  of major illicit drug producing country and major drug-transit country,
  for purposes of this chapter and other provisions of this Act relating
  specifically to international narcotics matters--'.
  (4) Subsection (c) of section 482 is repealed, and subsection (d) of that
  section is redesignated as subsection (c).
  (5) Section 486 is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), in the text preceding paragraph (1), by striking out
  `481(h)' and inserting in lieu thereof `490'; and
  (B) in subsection (b), by striking out `(relating to foreign military
  sales financing)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(relating to the `Foreign
  Military Financing Program')'.
  (6) Section 487(a)(1) is amended by striking out `(as defined in section
  481(i)(3) of this Act)'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS TO EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT- Section 2(b)(6)
  of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking out `481(h)(5)' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `490(e)'; and
  (2) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking out `defined in section 481(i)'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `determined under section  490(h) or 481(e),
  as appropriate,'.
  (d) AMENDMENT TO 1989 DRUG ACT- Section 3 of the International Narcotics
  Control Act of 1989 is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(j) CERTAIN FUNDING LIMITATIONS- The dollar limitations specified in
  subsections (c)(1) and (d)(1) shall not apply after the date of enactment
  of this subsection.'.
  (e) REPEAL OF OBSOLETE PROVISIONS-
  (1) 1988 DRUG ACT- All sections of the International Narcotics Control Act
  of 1988 (which is title IV of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988) are repealed
  except for sections 4001, 4306, 4308, 4309, 4501, 4702, and 4804. Section
  4501(b) of that Act is amended by striking out `Section 4601 of this title'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `Section 489(b) of the Foreign Assistance
  Act of 1961'.
  (2) 1986 DRUG ACT- All sections of the International Narcotics Control
  Act of 1986 (which is title II of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986) are
  repealed except for sections 2001, 2010, 2015, 2018, and 2029.
SEC. 7. EXEMPTION OF NARCOTICS-RELATED MILITARY ASSISTANCE FOR FISCAL YEARS
1993 AND 1994 FROM PROHIBITION ON ASSISTANCE FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
  (a) EXEMPTION- For fiscal years 1993 and 1994, section 660 of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961 shall not apply with respect to--
  (1) transfers of excess defense articles under section 517 of that Act;
  (2) funds made available for the `Foreign Military Financing Program' under
  section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act that are used for assistance
  provided for narcotics-related purposes; or
  (3) international military education and training under chapter 5 of part II
  of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 that is provided for narcotics-related
  purposes.
  (b) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS- At least 15 days before any transfer under
  subsection (a)(1) or any obligation of funds under subsection (a)(2) or
  (a)(3), the President shall notify the appropriate congressional committees
  in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications
  under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
  (c) COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL NARCOTICS CONTROL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM-
  Assistance provided pursuant to this section shall be coordinated with
  international narcotics control assistance under chapter 8 of part I of
  the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961.
SEC. 8. WAIVER OF RESTRICTIONS FOR NARCOTICS-RELATED ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.
  For fiscal years 1992 through 1994, narcotics-related assistance under part
  I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 may be provided notwithstanding any
  provision of law that restricts assistance to foreign countries (other than
  section 490(e) of that Act) if, at least 15 days before obligating funds
  for such assistance, the President notifies the appropriate congressional
  committees in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogramming
  notifications under section 634A of that Act.
SEC. 9. TRANSFERS OF EXCESS DEFENSE ARTICLES FOR COUNTERNARCOTICS PURPOSES.
  (a) CHANGES IN AUTHORITIES- Section 517 of the Foreign Assistance Act of
  1961 is amended--
  (1) in the section heading, by striking out `military capabilities of
  certain major illicit drug producing' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `counternarcotics capabilities of certain';
  (2) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `(as defined in section 481(i)(2))'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `or a major drug-transit country';
  (3) in subsection (b)--
  (A) by inserting `and local law enforcement agencies' after `military
  forces';
  (B) by striking out `with local law enforcement agencies' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `cooperatively'; and
  (C) by striking out `(as defined in section 481(i)(3))';
  (4) in subsection (d), by striking out `4601 of the International Narcotics
  Control Act of 1988' and inserting in lieu thereof `481(b) of this Act';
  (5) in subsection (i), by striking out `30' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `15'; and
  (6) by adding at the end the following:
  `(j) LIMITATION ON USE OF OTHER AUTHORITIES TO TRANSFER EXCESS DEFENSE
  ARTICLES- The transfer authority provided in sections 518 and 519 may not
  be exercised with respect to any major illicit drug producing country or
  major drug-transit country in Latin America or the Caribbean.
  `(k) EXCESS COAST GUARD PROPERTY- As used in this section, the term
  `excess defense articles' shall be deemed to include excess property of
  the Coast Guard, and the term `Department of Defense' shall be deemed,
  with respect to such excess property, to include the Coast Guard.'.
  (b) EXCLUSION OF CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT FROM DEFINITION OF EXCESS DEFENSE
  ARTICLES- Section 644(g) of that Act is amended by inserting `(other than
  construction equipment, including tractors, scrapers, loaders, graders,
  bulldozers, dump trucks, generators, and compressors)' after `articles'
  the second place it appears.
SEC. 10. PARTICIPANTS IN INTERNATIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PROGRAMS.
  Section 541 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 is amended--
  (1) by inserting `, and may also include legislators,' after `ministries
  of defense'; and
  (2) by striking out `or (iii)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(iii)
  contribute to cooperation between military and law enforcement personnel
  with respect to counternarcotics law enforcement efforts, or (iv)'.
SEC. 11. DEFINITION OF APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES.
  (a) FOREIGN ASSISTANCE ACT AMENDMENTS- Section 481(e) of the Foreign
  Assistance Act of 1961, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (2) after paragraph (5) insert the following:
  `(6) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee
  on Appropriations of the Senate.'.
  (b) FREE-STANDING PROVISIONS OF THIS ACT- As used in this Act, the term
  `appropriate congressional committees' has the definition given that term
  by section 481(e)(6) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (as added by
  subsection (a) of this section).
SEC. 12. EXPORT-IMPORT BANK FINANCING OF SALES OF DEFENSE ARTICLES OR SERVICES.
  (a) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY- Section 2(b)(6) of the Export-Import Bank
  Act of 1945 is amended by striking out `1992' in subparagraph (B)(vi)
  and inserting in lieu thereof `1997'.
  (b) ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR NATIONAL INTEREST WAIVER- Section 2(b)(6)(D)(i)
  of that Act is amended by striking out `and' at the end of subclause (I),
  by redesignating subclause (II) as subclause (III), and by inserting after
  subclause (I) the following:
  `(II) the President determines, after consultation with the Assistant
  Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, that the
  purchasing country has complied with all restrictions imposed by the United
  States on the end use of any defense articles or services for which a
  guarantee or insurance was provided under subparagraph (B), and has not
  used any such defense articles or services to engage in a consistent
  pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights; and'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (1) EXPORT-IMPORT BANK ACT- Section 2(b)(6) of that Act is amended--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking out `designated' and all that follows
  through the end of the subparagraph and inserting in lieu thereof `,
  except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B).';
  (B) in subparagraph (B)--
  (i) by striking out `, and section 32 of the Arms Export Control Act,'; and
  (ii) in clause (v), by striking out `and services' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `or services';
  (C) in subparagraph (D)(i)(III), as so redesignated by subsection (b) of
  this section, by striking out `determination has' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `determinations have'; and
  (D) in subparagraph (D)(ii), by striking out `sentence' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `clause'.
  (2) ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT- The Arms Export Control Act is amended by
  repealing section 32.
  (d) AVOIDANCE OF DUPLICATIVE AMENDMENTS- If an Act is enacted during 1992
  entitled `An Act to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States'
  that contains amendments identical to amendments made by this section, the
  amendments contained in this section that are identical to the amendments
  contained in that Act shall not be effective.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.