 
--H.R.2448--
H.R.2448
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the minting of medals in commemoration of Benjamin Franklin
and to enact a fire service bill of rights.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Benjamin Franklin National Memorial
  Commemorative Medal and Fire Service Bill of Rights Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) America's fire services should be acknowledged as our first responder
  to domestic emergencies.
  (2) Members of America's fire services deserve every protection from the
  dangers associated with emergency response.
  (3) Family members of those in the fire services should be provided for
  in the event of the service-connected loss or disability of any member of
  a fire service.
  (4) Members of fire services should be educated in the latest fire and
  life safety sciences, and should have access to ongoing training programs
  to be able to take full advantage of the latest information.
  (5) Fire services should be provided with state-of-the-art equipment and
  apparatus to handle all emergency situations.
  (6) America's fire services deserve to have access to up-to-date fire and
  life safety programs to enable them to protect the public with minimal
  risk to the safety of their members.
  (7) Responding fire services have a right to know the kind of danger
  presented by hazardous materials they face in all emergency responses.
  (8) Fire services should be fully informed of the threat of infectious
  diseases their members face during the course of life safety activities.
  (9) America's fire services have the right to expect that the American
  people will be full partners in the struggle to preserve life and property
  from the ravages of fire and other disasters.
  (10) The history of American fire services and the sacrifices their members
  have made to protect lives and property in communities across the Nation
  deserve to be commemorated and honored.
  (11) A commemorative medal would help recognize the achievements and needs
  of America's fire services.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION.
  (a) ISSUANCE- The Secretary of the Treasury (in this title referred to as
  the `Secretary') shall issue not more than 1,500,000 medals each of which
  shall contain 1 ounce of silver.
  (b) DESIGN- The design of the medals shall contain suitable emblems, devices,
  and inscriptions in commemoration of Benjamin Franklin's contributions to
  the American Fire Service. Such design shall be selected by the Secretary
  after consultation with the Chairman of the Benjamin Franklin National
  Memorial at the Franklin Institute, the Chairman of the Congressional Fire
  Services Institute, and the Chairman of the Commission of Fine Arts.
  (c) NATIONAL MEDALS- The medals issued under subsection (a) are national
  medals for purposes of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 4. SOURCES OF BULLION.
  The Secretary shall obtain silver for the medals authorized under section
  3 from stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical Minerals
  Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98 et seq.).
SEC. 5. SALE OF MEDALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The medals authorized under section 3 shall be sold by
  the Secretary at a price equal to the cost of production, plus the cost
  of designing and issuing such medals (including labor, materials, dies,
  use of machinery, and overhead expenses), and the surcharge provided for
  in subsection (d).
  (b) BULK SALES- The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the medals authorized
  under section 3 at a reasonable discount.
  (c) PREPAID ORDERS- The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders for the medals
  authorized under section 3 prior to the issuance of such medals. Sales
  under this subsection shall be at a reasonable discount to reflect the
  benefit of prepayment.
  (d) SURCHARGES- All sales of the medals authorized under section 3 shall
  include a surcharge of $15 per medal.
SEC. 6. MARKETING.
  The Secretary shall develop a domestic marketing program to promote and
  sell the medals authorized under section 3 in the United States.
SEC. 7. ISSUANCE OF MEDALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The medals authorized under section 3 may be issued in
  uncirculated and proof qualities, except that not more than 1 facility of
  the United States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality.
  (b) COMMENCEMENT OF ISSUANCE- The Secretary may issue the medals authorized
  under section 3 beginning on July 1, 1993.
  (c) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY- No medals authorized under section 3 may be
  minted after June 30, 1994.
SEC. 8. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (b), no provision of
  law governing procurement or public contracts shall be applicable to the
  procurement of goods or services necessary for issuing the medals authorized
  under section 3.
  (b) EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY- Subsection (a) shall not relieve any
  person entering into a contract under the authority of this title from
  complying with any law relating to equal employment opportunity.
SEC. 9. DISTRIBUTION OF SURCHARGES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in section 11, all surcharges described
  in section 5(d) which are received by the Secretary shall be promptly paid
  by the Secretary as follows:
  (1) AMOUNTS PAID FOR THE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN NATIONAL MEMORIAL- Subject to
  section 10, the Secretary shall pay to the Franklin Institute (custodian
  of the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial) 12.5 percent of the amount of
  such surcharges received. Such amounts shall be used--
  (A) to restore and renovate the Benjamin Franklin National Memorial (in
  this section referred to as the `Memorial');
  (B) for exhibits and programs in the Memorial or in the adjoining areas
  of the Franklin Institute relating to the Memorial, Benjamin Franklin,
  or to science and education;
  (C) for funds for the acquisition and preservation of artifacts relating
  to Benjamin Franklin; and
  (D) to establish, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, an
  endowment in an amount determined sufficient for the Memorial, to ensure
  the continued upkeep and maintenance of the Memorial.
  (2) AMOUNTS PAID FOR OTHER PURPOSES- Subject to section 10, the Secretary
  shall pay, of the amount of the surcharges received--
  (A) 12.5 percent to the Institute of Life Safety Technology and Emergency
  Management Education to provide grants to colleges and universities for
  fire training courses at no cost to participants (such Institute shall
  not require the use of specific course materials as a condition for the
  receipt of a grant by a college or university);
  (B) 12.5 percent to the International Association of Fire Chiefs Foundation
  to award scholarships for college level courses in fire science, engineering,
  and related fields;
  (C) 12.5 percent to the International Association of Fire Fighters Burn
  Foundation for burn injury research at hospital burn centers and other
  qualified medical research organizations;
  (D) 12.5 percent to the National Fire Protection Associations' Learn Not
  To Burn Foundation to deliver public education programs and resources to
  low income residents in rural and urban communities which have high fire
  injury and death rates;
  (E) 12.5 percent to the National Volunteer Fire Council Foundation to
  establish and maintain programs to promote the health and safety of all
  firefighters;
  (F) 12.5 percent to the National Association of State Fire Marshals to
  establish and maintain the `John Heinz Memorial Scholarship Fund' to
  provide educational scholarships to the surviving children and spouses
  of fallen firefighters and emergency medical personnel as qualified under
  the Public Safety Officers Benefit Program; and
  (G) 12.5 percent to the International Association of Arson Investigators
  Educational Foundation to design and maintain arson prevention programs.
  (b) AVAILABILITY OF LIST OF SURVIVING CHILDREN AND SPOUSES TO NATIONAL
  ASSOCIATION OF STATE FIRE MARSHALS- For purposes of providing educational
  scholarships described in subsection (a)(2)(F), the Attorney General
  shall make a list of surviving children and spouses referred to in such
  subsection available to the National Association of State Fire Marshals
  on a timely basis.
SEC. 10. AUDITS.
  (a) FRANKLIN INSTITUTE- As a condition for receiving the proceeds of the
  surcharges pursuant to section 9(a)(1), the Franklin Institute shall allow
  the Comptroller General to examine such books, records, documents, and other
  data of the Institute as may be related to the expenditure of amounts paid,
  and the management and expenditures of the endowment established under
  subparagraph (F) of such section.
  (b) INSTITUTE OF LIFE SAFETY TECHNOLOGY AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT EDUCATION,
  NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE FIRE MARSHALS, AND THE FIVE FIRE SERVICE
  FOUNDATIONS- As a condition for receiving the proceeds of the surcharges
  pursuant to section 9(a)(2), the Institute of Life Safety Technology and
  Emergency Management Education, the National Association of State Fire
  Marshals, and the 5 fire service foundations described in subparagraphs
  (B), (C), (D), (E), and (G) of section 9(a)(2), shall allow the Comptroller
  General to examine such books, records, documents, and other data as may
  be related to the expenditure of amounts paid.
  (c) ADMINISTRATIVE, OVERHEAD, OR OTHER EXPENSES PROHIBITED- No funds
  received under section 9, and no interest accruing on any such funds,
  may be used for administrative purposes, overhead expenses, or for any
  other purpose not described in such section.
SEC. 11. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
  (a) NO NET COST TO THE GOVERNMENT- The Secretary shall take all actions
  necessary to ensure that the issuance of the medals authorized under
  section 3 shall result in no net cost to the Federal Government.
  (b) RECOVERY OF COSTS TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENT-
  (1) RELEASE OF SURCHARGES UPON RECEIPT OF FUNDS- The Secretary shall not
  distribute the amount of any surcharge under section 9 until the Secretary
  has received funds, either from the sale of medals authorized under this
  Act or from private donations, sufficient to ensure that the issuance of
  medals under this Act shall result in no net cost to the Federal Government.
  (2) RECOVERY OF EXPENSES FROM SURCHARGES- If all costs to the Federal
  Government in connection with the issuance of medals under this Act are
  not recovered from the sale of such medals or from private donations as of
  the termination of the program in accordance with section 7, the Secretary
  shall reduce the amount of the surcharges retained pursuant to paragraph
  (1) by the amount of such shortfall and apply such amount to the cost of
  issuing such medals.
  (3) DISTRIBUTION OF BALANCE OF SURCHARGES- Any surcharges remaining after
  any reduction in the amount of such surcharges pursuant to paragraph (2)
  shall be distributed in accordance with section 9.
  (c) PAYMENT FOR MEDALS- No medal authorized under section 3 shall be issued
  unless the Secretary has received--
  (1) full payment, as determined under section 5;
  (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the United States
  for full payment; or
  (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the Secretary from a
  depository institution whose deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation or the National Credit Union Administration Board.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.