 
--H.R.355--
H.R.355
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide emergency drought relief to the Reclamation States, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief
 Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act:
 (1) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (2) The term `Federal Reclamation laws' means the Act of June 17, 1902
 (32 Stat. 388) and Acts supplementary thereto and amendatory thereof.
 (3) The term `Federal Reclamation project' means any project constructed
 or funded under Federal Reclamation law. Such term includes projects
 having approved loans under the Small Reclamation Projects Act of 1956
 (70 Stat. 1044).
TITLE I--DROUGHT PROGRAM
SEC. 101. ASSISTANCE DURING DROUGHT; WATER PURCHASES.
 (a) CONSTRUCTION, MANAGEMENT, AND CONSERVATION- Consistent with existing
 contractual arrangements and applicable State and applicable Federal law,
 and without further authorization, the Secretary is authorized to undertake
 construction, management, and conservation activities that will minimize,
 or can be expected to have an effect in minimizing, losses and damages
 resulting from drought conditions. Any construction activities undertaken
 pursuant to the authority of this subsection shall be limited to temporary
 facilities designed to minimize losses and damages from drought conditions,
 except that wells drilled to minimize losses and damages from drought
 conditions may be permanent facilities.
 (b) ASSISTANCE TO WILLING BUYERS AND SELLERS- In order to minimize losses
 and damages resulting from drought conditions, the Secretary may provide
 nonfinancial assistance to willing buyers in their purchase of available
 water supplies from willing sellers.
 (c) WATER PURCHASES BY BUREAU- In order to minimize losses and damages
 resulting from drought conditions, the Secretary may purchase water from
 willing sellers, including, but not limited to, water made available by
 Federal Reclamation project contractors through conservation or other means
 with respect to which the seller has reduced the consumption of water. Except
 with respect to water stored, conveyed or delivered to Federal and State
 wildlife habitat, the Secretary shall deliver such water pursuant to
 temporary contracts under section 102: Provided, That any such contract
 shall require recovery of any costs, including interest if applicable,
 incurred by the Secretary in acquiring such water.
 (d) WATER BANKS- In order to respond to a drought, the Secretary is authorized
 to participate in water banks established by a State.
SEC. 102. AVAILABILITY OF WATER ON A TEMPORARY BASIS.
 (a) GENERAL AUTHORITY- In order to mitigate losses and damages resulting from
 drought conditions, the Secretary may make available, by temporary contract,
 project and nonproject water, and may permit the use of facilities at Federal
 Reclamation projects for the storage or conveyance of project or nonproject
 water, for use both within and outside an authorized project service area.
 (b) SPECIAL PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY WATER SUPPLIES PROVIDED
 UNDER THIS SECTION-
 (1) TEMPORARY SUPPLIES- Each temporary contract for the supply of water
 entered into pursuant to this section shall terminate no later than two
 years from the date of execution or upon a determination by the Secretary
 that water supply conditions no longer warrant that such contracts remain in
 effect, whichever occurs first. The costs associated with any such contract
 shall be repaid within the term of the contract.
 (2) OWNERSHIP AND ACREAGE LIMITATIONS- Lands not subject to Reclamation law
 that receive temporary irrigation water supplies under temporary contracts
 under this section shall not become subject to the ownership and acreage
 limitations or pricing provisions of Federal Reclamation law because of the
 delivery of such temporary water supplies. Lands that are subject to the
 ownership and acreage limitations of Federal Reclamation law shall not be
 exempted from those limitations because of the delivery of such temporary
 water supplies.
 (3) TREATMENT UNDER RECLAMATION REFORM ACT OF 1982- No temporary contract
 entered into by the Secretary under this section shall be treated as a
 `contract' as that term is used in sections 203(a) and 220 of the Reclamation
 Reform Act of 1982 (Public Law 97-293).
 (4) AMENDMENTS OF EXISTING CONTRACTS- Any amendment to an existing contract
 to allow a contractor to carry out the provisions of this title shall not
 be considered a new and supplemental benefit for purposes of the Reclamation
 Reform Act of 1982 (Public Law 97-293).
 (c) CONTRACT PRICE- The price for project water, other than water purchased
 pursuant to section 101(c), delivered under a temporary contract entered into
 by the Secretary under this section shall be at least sufficient to recover
 all Federal operation and maintenance costs and administrative costs, and
 an appropriate share of capital costs, including interest on such capital
 costs allocated to municipal and industrial water, except that, for project
 water delivered to nonproject landholdings, the price shall include full
 cost (as defined in section 202(3) of the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982
 (Public Law 97-293; 96 Stat. 1263; 43 U.S.C. 390bb)). For all contracts
 entered into by the Secretary under the authority of this title--
 (1) the interest rate used for computing interest during construction and
 interest on the unpaid balance of the capital costs expended pursuant to this
 Act shall be at a rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury
 based on average market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of
 the United States with remaining periods to maturity of one year occurring
 during the last month of the fiscal year preceding the date of execution
 of the temporary contract; or
 (2) in the case of existing facilities the rate as authorized for that
 Federal Reclamation project; or
 (3) in the absence of such authorized rate, the interest rate as determined by
 the Secretary of the Treasury as of the beginning of the fiscal year in which
 construction was initiated on the basis of the computed average interest rate
 payable by the Treasury upon its outstanding marketable public obligations
 which were neither due nor callable for redemption for fifteen years from
 date of issue: Provided, That for all deliveries of water for municipal
 and industrial purposes from existing facilities to nonproject contractors,
 the rate shall be as set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 (d) FISH AND WILDLIFE- The Secretary may make water from Federal Reclamation
 projects and nonproject water available on a nonreimbursable basis for the
 purposes of protecting or restoring fish and wildlife resources, including
 mitigation losses, that occur as a result of drought conditions or the
 operation of a Federal Reclamation project during drought conditions. The
 Secretary may store and convey project and nonproject water for fish and
 wildlife purposes, and may provide conveyance of any such water for both State
 and Federal wildlife habitat and for habitat held in private ownership. The
 Secretary may make available water for these purposes outside the authorized
 project service area. Use of the Federal storage and conveyance facilities
 for these purposes shall be on a nonreimbursable basis. Water made available
 by the Secretary in 1991 from the Central Valley Project, California, to
 the Grasslands Water District for the purpose of fish and wildlife shall
 be nonreimbursable.
 (e) NONPROJECT WATER- The Secretary is authorized to store and convey
 nonproject water utilizing Federal Reclamation project facilities for use
 outside and inside the authorized project service area for municipal and
 industrial uses, fish and wildlife, and agricultural uses. Except in the case
 of water supplied for fish and wildlife, which shall be nonreimbursable,
 the Secretary shall charge the recipients of such water for such use of
 Federal Reclamation project facilities at a rate established pursuant to
 section 102(c) of this Act.
 (f) RECLAMATION FUND- The payment of capital costs attributable to the sale
 of project or nonproject water or the use of Federal Reclamation project
 facilities shall be covered into the Reclamation Fund and be placed to
 the credit of the project from which such water or use of such facilities
 is supplied.
SEC. 103. LOANS.
 The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make loans to water users
 for the purposes of undertaking construction, management, conservation
 activities, or the acquisition and transportation of water consistent with
 State law, that can be expected to have an effect in mitigating losses
 and damages, including those suffered by fish and wildlife, resulting from
 drought conditions. Such loans shall be made available under such terms and
 conditions as the Secretary deems appropriate: Provided, That the Secretary
 shall not approve any loan unless the applicant can demonstrate an ability
 to repay such loan within the term of the loan: Provided further, That for
 all loans approved by the Secretary under the authority of this section, the
 interest rate shall be the rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury
 based on average market yields on outstanding marketable obligations of the
 United States with periods to maturity comparable to the repayment period of
 the loan. The repayment period for loans issued under this section shall not
 exceed fifteen years. The repayment period for such loans shall begin when
 the loan is executed. Sections 203(a) and 220 of the Reclamation Reform Act
 of 1982 and sections 105 and 106 of Public Law 99-546 shall not apply to
 any contract to repay such loan. The Secretary shall notify the Committee
 on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives in writing of any loan
 which the Secretary intends to approve not less than thirty days prior to
 granting final approval.
SEC. 104. APPLICABLE PERIOD OF DROUGHT PROGRAM.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The programs and authorities established under this title
 shall become operative in any Reclamation State only after the Governor
 or Governors of the affected State or States, or on a reservation, when
 the governing body of the affected tribe has made a request for temporary
 drought assistance and the Secretary has determined that such temporary
 assistance is merited, or upon the approval of a drought contingency plan
 as provided in title II of this Act.
 (b) COORDINATION WITH BPA- If a Governor referred to in subsection (a)
 is the Governor of the State of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, or Montana,
 the Governor shall coordinate with the Administrator of the Bonneville
 Power Administration before making a request under subsection (a).
 (c) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY- The authorities established under this title
 shall terminate ten years after the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE II--DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLANNING
SEC. 201. IDENTIFICATION OF OPPORTUNITIES FOR WATER SUPPLY CONSERVATION,
AUGMENTATION AND USE.
 The Secretary is authorized to conduct studies to identify opportunities to
 conserve, augment, and make more efficient use of water supplies available to
 Federal Reclamation projects and Indian water resource developments in order
 to be prepared for and better respond to drought conditions. The Secretary
 is authorized to provide technical assistance to States and to local and
 tribal government entities to assist in the development, construction, and
 operation of water desalinization projects, including technical assistance for
 purposes of assessing the technical and economic feasibility of such projects.
SEC. 202. DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLANS.
 The Secretary, acting pursuant to the Federal Reclamation laws, utilizing
 the resources of the Department of the Interior, and in consultation with
 other appropriate Federal and State officials, Indian tribes, public,
 private, and local entities, is authorized to prepare or participate in the
 preparation of cooperative drought contingency plans (hereinafter in this
 title referred to as `contingency plans') for the prevention or mitigation
 of adverse effects of drought conditions.
SEC. 203. PLAN ELEMENTS.
 (a) PLAN PROVISIONS- Elements of the contingency plans prepared pursuant to
 section 202 may include, but are not limited to, any or all of the following:
 (1) Water banks.
 (2) Appropriate water conservation actions.
 (3) Water transfers to serve users inside or outside authorized Federal
 Reclamation project service areas in order to mitigate the effects of drought.
 (4) Use of Federal Reclamation project facilities to store and convey
 nonproject water for agricultural, municipal and industrial, fish and
 wildlife, or other uses both inside and outside an authorized Federal
 Reclamation project service area.
 (5) Use of water from dead or inactive reservoir storage or increased use
 of ground water resources for temporary water supplies.
 (6) Water supplies for fish and wildlife resources.
 (7) Minor structural actions.
 (b) FEDERAL RECLAMATION PROJECTS- Each contingency plan shall identify the
 following two types of plan elements related to Federal Reclamation projects:
 (1) Those plan elements which pertain exclusively to the responsibilities
 and obligations of the Secretary pursuant to Federal Reclamation law and
 the responsibilities and obligations of the Secretary for a specific Federal
 Reclamation project.
 (2) Those plan elements that pertain to projects, purposes, or activities not
 constructed, financed, or otherwise governed by the Federal Reclamation law.
 (c) DROUGHT LEVELS- The Secretary is authorized to work with other Federal
 and State agencies to improve hydrologic data collection systems and water
 supply forecasting techniques to provide more accurate and timely warning
 of potential drought conditions and drought levels that would trigger the
 implementation of contingency plans.
 (d) COMPLIANCE WITH LAW- The contingency plans and plan elements shall comply
 with all requirements of applicable Federal law, including the National
 Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321), section 715(a) of the Water
 Resource Development Act of 1986 (33 U.S.C. 2265(a), and the Fish and Wildlife
 Coordination Act, and shall be in accordance with applicable State law.
 (e) REVIEW- The contingency plans shall include provisions for periodic
 review to assure the adequacy of the contingency plan to respond to current
 conditions, and such plans may be modified accordingly.
SEC. 204. RECOMMENDATIONS.
 (a) APPROVAL- The Secretary shall submit each plan prepared pursuant to
 section 202 to the Congress, together with the Secretary's recommendations,
 including recommendations for authorizing legislation, if needed.
 (b) PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGION- A contingency plan under subsection (a)
 for the State of Washington, Oregon, Idaho, or Montana, may be approved by
 the Secretary only at the request of the Governor of the affected State in
 coordination with the other States in the region and the Administrator of
 the Bonneville Power Administration.
SEC. 205. RECLAMATION DROUGHT RESPONSE FUND.
 The Secretary shall undertake a study of the need, if any, to establish
 a Reclamation Drought Response Fund to be available for defraying those
 expenses which the Secretary determines necessary to implement plans prepared
 under section 202 and to make loans for nonstructural and minor structural
 activities for the prevention or mitigation of the adverse effects of drought.
SEC. 206. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRANSFER OF PRECIPITATION MANAGEMENT
TECHNOLOGY.
 (a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary is authorized to provide technical
 assistance for drought contingency planning in any of the States not
 identified in section 1 of the Reclamation Act (Act of June 17, 1902,
 32 Stat. 388), and the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Republic
 of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Trust
 Territory of the Pacific Islands, and upon termination of the Trusteeship,
 the Republic of Palau, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa,
 Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
 (b) TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM- The Secretary is authorized to conduct
 a Precipitation Management Technology Transfer Program to help alleviate
 problems caused by precipitation variability and droughts in the West,
 as part of a balanced long-term water resources development and management
 program. In consultation with State, tribal, and local water, hydropower,
 water quality and instream flow interests, areas shall be selected for
 conducting field studies cost-shared on a 50-50 basis to validate and
 quantify the potential for appropriate precipitation management technology
 to augment stream flows. Validated technologies shall be transferred to
 non-Federal interests for operational implementation.
TITLE III--GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Except as otherwise provided in section 303 of this Act (relating to
 temperature control devices at Shasta Dam, California), there is authorized
 to be appropriated not more than $90,000,000 in total for fiscal years 1992,
 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996.
SEC. 302. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.
 The Secretary is authorized to perform any and all acts and to promulgate
 such regulations as may be necessary and appropriate for the purpose of
 implementing this Act. In carrying out the authorities under this Act,
 the Secretary shall give specific consideration to the needs of fish and
 wildlife, together with other project purposes, and shall consider temporary
 operational changes which will mitigate, or can be expected to have an
 effect in mitigating, fish and wildlife losses and damages resulting from
 drought conditions, consistent with the Secretary's other obligations.
SEC. 303. TEMPERATURE CONTROL AT SHASTA DAM, CENTRAL VALLEY PROJECT.
 The Secretary is authorized to complete the design and specifications for
 construction of a device to control the temperature of water releases
 from Shasta Dam, Central Valley Project, California, and to construct
 facilities needed to attach such device to the dam. There is authorized
 to be appropriated to carry out the authority of this section not more
 than $12,000,000.
SEC. 304. EFFECT OF ACT ON OTHER LAWS.
 (a) CONFORMITY WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW- All actions taken pursuant to
 this Act pertaining to the diversion, storage, use, or transfer of water
 shall be in conformity with applicable State and applicable Federal law.
 (b) EFFECT ON JURISDICTION, AUTHORITY, AND WATER RIGHTS- Nothing in this Act
 shall be construed as expanding or diminishing State, Federal, or tribal
 jurisdiction or authority over water resources development, control, or
 water rights.
SEC. 305. EXCESS STORAGE AND CARRYING CAPACITY.
 The Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts with municipalities,
 public water districts and agencies, other Federal agencies, State
 agencies, and private entities, pursuant to the Act of February 21, 1911
 (43 U.S.C. 523), for the impounding, storage, and carriage of nonproject
 water for domestic, municipal, fish and wildlife, industrial, and other
 beneficial purposes using any facilities associated with the Central Valley
 Project, Cachuma Project, and the Ventura River Project, California, the
 Truckee Storage Project, and the Washoe Project, California and Nevada. The
 Secretary is further authorized to enter into contracts for the exchange
 of water for the aforementioned purposes using facilities associated with
 the Cachuma Project, California.
SEC. 306. REPORT.
 There shall be included as part of the President's annual budget submittal
 to the Congress a detailed report on past and proposed expenditures and
 accomplishments under this Act.
SEC. 307. FEDERAL RECLAMATION LAWS.
 This Act shall constitute a supplement to the Federal Reclamation laws.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.