 
--H.R.6129--
H.R.6129
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to establish a
program to aid beginning farmers and ranchers and to improve the operation
of the Farmers Home Administration, and to amend the Farm Credit Act of 1971,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Agricultural Credit
  Improvement Act of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.
Sec. 3. Limitation on aggregate indebtedness.
Sec. 4. Interest rate for loans sold into secondary market; guaranteed
loan fees.
Sec. 5. Federal-State beginning farmer partnership.
Sec. 6. Grants for private business enterprises.
Sec. 7. Down payment loan program.
Sec. 8. Special assistance to certain qualified beginning farmers and ranchers.
Sec. 9. Graduation of borrowers with operating loans or guarantees to private
commercial credit.
Sec. 10. Consideration of borrowers for loan service programs.
Sec. 11. Time period within which county committee is required to meet to
consider applications for farm ownership and operating loans and guarantees
and beginning farmer plans.
Sec. 12. Increase in period during which county committee loan eligibility
certification continues in effect.
Sec. 13. Processing of applications for farm operating loans.
Sec. 14. Graduation of seasoned direct loan borrowers to the loan guarantee
program.
Sec. 15. Simplified application for guaranteed loans of $50,000 or less.
Sec. 16. Inventory lease or lease with option to purchase.
Sec. 17. Transfer of Indian lands pledged as collateral for FmHA loans.
Sec. 18. Debt service margin requirements; certified lenders program.
Sec. 19. Definition of qualified beginning farmer or rancher.
Sec. 20. Targeting of funds.
Sec. 21. Equal access to FmHA assistance by gender.
Sec. 22. State mediation programs.
Sec. 23. Regulations.
Sec. 24. Technical amendment.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FARM AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT ACT.
  Wherever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an
  amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference
  shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision of the
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1921 et seq.),
  except to the extent otherwise specifically provided.
SEC. 3. LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE INDEBTEDNESS.
  Section 305 (7 U.S.C. 1925) is amended by striking `and 310D of this title'
  and inserting `310D, and 310E'.
SEC. 4. INTEREST RATE FOR LOANS SOLD INTO SECONDARY MARKET; GUARANTEED
LOAN FEES.
  Section 309(h) (7 U.S.C. 1929(h)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(h)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(2) The interest rate payable by a borrower on the portion of a guaranteed
  loan that is sold by a lender to the secondary market under this title
  may be lower than the interest rate charged on the portion retained by
  the lender, but shall not exceed the average interest rate charged by the
  lender on loans made to farm and ranch borrowers.
  `(3) With regard to any loan guarantee on a loan made by a commercial or
  cooperative lender related to a loan made by the Secretary under section
  310E--
  `(A) the Secretary shall not charge a fee to any person (including a
  lender); and
  `(B) a lender may charge a loan origination and servicing fee in an amount
  not to exceed 1 percent of the amount of the loan.'.
SEC. 5. FEDERAL-STATE BEGINNING FARMER PARTNERSHIP.
  (a) COORDINATION OF ASSISTANCE FOR QUALIFIED BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS-
  Section 309 (7 U.S.C. 1929) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(i)(1) Not later than 60 days after any State expresses to the Secretary,
  in writing, a desire to coordinate the provision of financial assistance to
  qualified beginning farmers and ranchers in the State, the Secretary and
  the State shall conclude a joint memorandum of understanding that shall
  govern the coordination of the provision of the financial assistance by
  the State and the Secretary.
  `(2) The memorandum of understanding shall provide that if a State beginning
  farmer program makes a commitment to provide a qualified beginning farmer
  or rancher with financing to establish or maintain a viable farming or
  ranching operation, the Secretary shall, subject to applicable law, normal
  loan approval criteria, and the availability of funds provide the farmer
  or rancher with a down payment loan under section 310E or a guarantee of
  the financing provided by the State program, or both.
  `(3) The Secretary shall not charge any person (including a lender) any
  fee with respect to the provision of any guarantee under this subsection.
  `(4) The Secretary shall notify each State of the provisions of this
  subsection.
  `(5) As used in paragraph (1), the term `State beginning farmer program'
  means any program that is--
  `(A) carried out by, or under contract with, a State; and
  `(B) designed to assist persons in obtaining the financial assistance
  necessary to enter agriculture and establish viable farming or ranching
  operations.'.
  (b) ADVISORY COMMITTEE-
  (1) ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE- Not later than 18 months after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish an
  advisory committee, to be known as the `Advisory Committee on Beginning
  Farmers and Ranchers', which shall provide advice to the Secretary on--
  (A) the development of the program of coordinated assistance to qualified
  beginning farmers and ranchers under section 309(i) of the Consolidated
  Farm and Rural Development Act (as added by subsection (a) of this section);
  (B) methods of maximizing the number of new farming and ranching
  opportunities created through the program;
  (C) methods of encouraging States to participate in the program;
  (D) the administration of the program; and
  (E) other methods of creating new farming or ranching opportunities.
  (2) MEMBERSHIP- The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Advisory
  Committee. The Advisory Committee shall include representatives from
  the following:
  (A) The Farmers Home Administration.
  (B) State beginning farmer programs (as defined in section 309(i)(5) of
  the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (as added by subsection
  (a) of this section)).
  (C) Commercial lenders.
  (D) Private nonprofit organizations with active beginning farmer or
  rancher programs.
  (E) The Cooperative Extension Service.
  (F) Community colleges or other educational institutions with demonstrated
  experience in training beginning farmers or ranchers.
  (G) Other entities or persons providing lending or technical assistance
  for qualified beginning farmers or ranchers.
SEC. 6. GRANTS FOR PRIVATE BUSINESS ENTERPRISES.
  Section 310B(c) (7 U.S.C. 1932(c)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) The Secretary may make grants to qualified nonprofit organizations for
  the provision of technical assistance and training to rural communities
  for the purpose of improving passenger transportation services or
  facilities. Assistance provided under this paragraph may include on-site
  technical assistance to local and regional governments, public transit
  agencies, and related nonprofit and for-profit organizations in rural areas,
  the development of training materials, and the provision of necessary
  training assistance to local officials and agencies in rural areas.'.
SEC. 7. DOWN PAYMENT LOAN PROGRAM.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subtitle A (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) is amended by adding
  at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 310E. DOWN PAYMENT LOAN PROGRAM.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT- Notwithstanding any other section of this subtitle,
  the Secretary shall establish, within the farm ownership loan program
  established under this subtitle, a program under which loans shall be made
  under this section to qualified beginning farmers and ranchers for down
  payments on farm ownership loans.
  `(2) ADMINISTRATION- The Secretary shall be the primary coordinator of credit
  supervision for the down payment loan program established under this section,
  in consultation with the commercial or cooperative lender and, if applicable,
  the contracting credit counseling service selected under section 360(c).
  `(b) LOAN TERMS-
  `(1) PRINCIPAL- Each loan made under this section shall be in an amount
  equal to 30 percent of the purchase price or appraisal value, whichever is
  lower, of the farm or ranch to be acquired, unless the borrower requests
  a lesser amount.
  `(2) INTEREST RATE- The interest rate on any loan made by the Secretary
  under this section shall be 4 percent.
  `(3) DURATION- Each loan under this section shall be made for a period of
  10 years or less, at the option of the borrower.
  `(4) REPAYMENT- Each borrower of a loan under this section shall repay
  the loan to the Secretary in equal annual installments.
  `(5) NATURE OF RETAINED SECURITY INTEREST- The Secretary shall retain
  an interest in each farm or ranch acquired with a loan made under this
  section that shall--
  `(A) be secured by the farm or ranch;
  `(B) be junior only to such interests in the farm or ranch as may be
  conveyed at the time of acquisition to the person (including a lender)
  from whom the borrower obtained a loan used to acquire the farm or ranch; and
  `(C) require the borrower to obtain the permission of the Secretary before
  the borrower may grant an additional security interest in the farm or ranch.
  `(c) LIMITATIONS-
  `(1) BORROWERS REQUIRED TO MAKE MINIMUM DOWN PAYMENT- The Secretary shall
  not make a loan under this section to any borrower with respect to a farm
  or ranch if the contribution of the borrower to the down payment on the
  farm or ranch will be less than 10 percent of the purchase price of the
  farm or ranch.
  `(2) MAXIMUM PRICE OF PROPERTY TO BE ACQUIRED- The Secretary shall not
  make a loan under this section with respect to a farm or ranch for which
  the purchase price or appraisal value, whichever is lower, exceeds $250,000.
  `(3) PROHIBITED TYPES OF FINANCING- The Secretary shall not make a loan under
  this section with respect to a farm or ranch if the farm or ranch is to be
  acquired with other financing that contains any of the following conditions:
  `(A) The financing is to be amortized over a period of less than 30 years.
  `(B) A balloon payment will be due on the financing during the 10-year
  period beginning on the date the loan is to be made by the Secretary.
  `(d) ADMINISTRATION- In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall,
  to the maximum extent practicable--
  `(1) facilitate the transfer of farms and ranches from retiring farmers
  and ranchers to persons eligible for insured loans under this subtitle;
  `(2) make efforts to widely publicize the availability of loans under this
  section among--
  `(A) potentially eligible recipients of the loans;
  `(B) retiring farmers and ranchers; and
  `(C) applicants for farm ownership loans under this subtitle;
  `(3) encourage retiring farmers and ranchers to assist in the sale of
  their farms and ranches to qualified beginning farmers and ranchers by
  providing seller financing; and
  `(4) coordinate the loan program established by this section with State
  programs that provide farm ownership or operating loans for beginning
  farmers and ranchers.'.
  (b) AVAILABILITY OF FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES FOR CERTAIN
  BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS- Subtitle A (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) (as
  amended by subsection (a) of this section) is further amended by adding
  at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 310F. AVAILABILITY OF FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS AND LOAN GUARANTEES FOR
CERTAIN QUALIFIED BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS.
  `(a) ASSISTANCE PROHIBITED FOR A LIMITED PERIOD- Except as otherwise provided
  in this section, if the Secretary approves the application of a qualified
  beginning farmer or rancher (referred to in this section as the `applicant')
  for assistance under section 318, the Secretary shall not make a loan under
  this subtitle to the applicant or provide a guarantee under section 309(h)
  with respect to any farm real estate loan made to the applicant.
  `(b) AVAILABILITY OF DOWN PAYMENT LOANS- After the applicable period,
  the Secretary may make an insured loan under this subtitle, or a down
  payment loan under section 310E, to an applicant if--
  `(1) throughout the applicable period, the applicant conducted an operation
  for which assistance is provided under section 318 in accordance with the
  plan for special assistance; and
  `(2) the applicant is otherwise eligible for the loan.
  `(c) AVAILABILITY OF LOAN GUARANTEES- After the applicable period, the
  Secretary may guarantee under section 309(h) the repayment of a commercial
  or cooperative loan made to an applicant referred to in subsection (a) if--
  `(1) throughout the applicable period, the applicant conducted the operation
  for which assistance is provided under section 318 in accordance with the
  plan for special assistance; and
  `(2) the applicant is otherwise eligible for the loan guarantee.
  `(d) APPLICABLE PERIOD DEFINED- As used in this section, the term `applicable
  period' means the first 5 years for which an applicant has operated a farm
  or ranch, including the period of time the applicant is provided assistance
  under section 318.'.
SEC. 8. SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO CERTAIN QUALIFIED BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS.
  Subtitle B (7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new section:
`SEC. 318. SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO CERTAIN QUALIFIED BEGINNING FARMERS AND
RANCHERS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall provide special assistance in accordance
  with this section to enable a qualified beginning farmer or rancher who
  has not operated a farm or ranch, or who has operated a farm or ranch for
  not more than 5 years (referred to in this section as the `applicant'),
  to conduct viable farming or ranching operations.
  `(b) SUBMISSION OF PLAN OF FARM OPERATION- An applicant who desires to
  apply for special assistance under this section shall submit a plan,
  in coordination with activities conducted under sections 359, 360, 361,
  and 362, that--
  `(1) describes, for each of the first 5 years for which assistance under
  this section is sought for the operation--
  `(A) how the operation is to be conducted;
  `(B) the types and quantities of commodities to be produced by the operation;
  `(C) the production methods and practices to be employed by the operation;
  `(D) the conservation measures to be taken in the operation;
  `(E) the equipment needed to conduct the operation (including any expected
  replacements for the equipment) and, with respect to each item of needed
  equipment, whether the applicant owns, leases, or otherwise has access to the
  item, or proposes to purchase, lease, or otherwise gain access to the item;
  `(F) the expected income and expenses of the operation;
  `(G) the expected credit needs of the operation, including the types and
  amounts of assistance to be sought under this section; and
  `(H) the site or sites at which the operation is (or is to be) located; and
  `(2) projects the financial status of the operation after assistance
  under this section has been provided for a period of not more than 10
  years, consistent with section 319, as is necessary for the operation to
  become financially viable without further assistance from the Secretary,
  including specific goals that the applicant projects to meet in order to
  progress toward graduation as expeditiously as possible.
  `(c) DETERMINATIONS BY THE COUNTY COMMITTEE; APPROVAL OF PLAN- The county
  committee shall approve a plan submitted by an applicant in accordance
  with subsection (b) if the county committee determines that--
  `(1) the applicant has not operated a farm or ranch, or has operated a
  farm or ranch for not more than 5 years;
  `(2) during the 5-year period ending with the submission of the plan, the
  applicant has had sufficient education and experience to indicate that the
  applicant is able to conduct a successful farming or ranching operation,
  as the case may be;
  `(3) the applicant owns, leases, or has a commitment to have leased to
  the applicant the site or sites of the operation;
  `(4) there is, or will be, available to the applicant equipment sufficient
  to conduct the operation in accordance with the plan;
  `(5) the applicant agrees to participate in such loan assessment, borrower
  training, and financial management programs as the Secretary may require; and
  `(6) the applicant is otherwise eligible for assistance under this title.
  `(d) DETERMINATION BY THE SECRETARY; APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR ASSISTANCE-
  The Secretary shall approve an application for assistance under this section
  for an operation described in a plan approved by a county committee under
  this section if the Secretary determines that--
  `(1) the operation would generate income sufficient to cover the expenses of
  the operation, debt service, and adequate living expenses of the applicant,
  to the extent that other income would not cover the living expenses, if
  the operation received assistance under this section as provided for in
  the plan; and
  `(2) during the commitment period established in accordance with subsection
  (e)(1), the operation will be financially viable without further assistance
  from the Secretary and the identified goals are reasonable and practicable.
  `(e) PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) DETERMINATION OF COMMITMENT PERIOD-
  `(A) INITIAL DETERMINATION- In approving an application under subsection
  (d), the Secretary shall, subject to subparagraph (C), determine the
  period during which assistance under this section is to be provided for
  the operation described in the application (referred to in this subsection
  as the `commitment period').
  `(B) AUTHORITY TO EXTEND PERIOD; NO AUTHORITY TO REDUCE PERIOD- At any
  time, the Secretary may, subject to subparagraph (C) and subsections (f)
  and (g), extend the duration of the commitment period. The Secretary shall
  not reduce the duration of the commitment period.
  `(C) LIMITATIONS-
  `(i) IN GENERAL- The duration of any commitment period (including any
  extensions of the period) shall not exceed 10 years and shall be consistent
  with section 319.
  `(ii) ELIGIBILITY FOR INSURED OPERATING LOANS- During the commitment period,
  an applicant shall not be eligible to receive an insured operating loan
  under this section after the date that is 8 years after the date on which
  the applicant first receives assistance under this section.
  `(2) OPERATING LOANS; LOAN GUARANTEES-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- To the extent that an applicant whose application is
  approved under subsection (d) is unable to obtain sufficient credit from
  commercial or cooperative lenders to finance the operation described in
  the application at reasonable rates and terms (taking into consideration
  prevailing private and cooperative rates, and terms in the community in which
  the operation is (or is to be) located, for loans for similar purposes and
  periods of time), the Secretary shall, subject to the availability of funds
  and to subsections (f) and (g) and consistent with sections 360 and 362,
  make a conditional commitment to the applicant for each of the years of
  the commitment period--
  `(i) to provide to any commercial or cooperative lender who makes a loan to
  the applicant that is within the credit needs of the operation (as specified
  in the plan contained in the application) a guarantee under section 309(h)
  for the repayment of 90 percent of the loan principal and interest;
  `(ii)(I) to provide to any commercial or cooperative lender who makes a
  loan to the applicant that is within the credit needs of the operation
  (as specified in the plan contained in the application) a guarantee under
  section 309(h) for the repayment of 90 percent of the loan principal and
  interest and an interest subsidy payment in the amount necessary to ensure
  that the applicant qualifies for such a loan but not more than the amount
  of interest assistance allowed by section 351; or
  `(II) if during any of the first 4 years for which assistance is provided
  under this section the Secretary determines that the applicant will not
  qualify for a loan described in subclause (I), an interest subsidy payment
  sufficient to ensure that the effective rate of interest payable by the
  applicant on the loan equals the rate of interest charged to low income,
  limited resource borrowers on insured operating loans made under this
  subtitle that are of comparable size and maturity; or
  `(iii) to make an insured loan under this subtitle to the applicant,
  in the amount specified in the plan contained in the application, at an
  interest rate that is no higher than the interest rate charged to regular
  borrowers and no lower than the interest rate charged to low income,
  limited resource borrowers under this subtitle.
  `(3) LOANS OR GUARANTEES FOR NEW OR IMPROVED EQUIPMENT- The Secretary shall
  make a commitment to any applicant whose application is approved under
  subsection (d) to provide the applicant with loans under this subtitle or
  loan guarantees under section 309(h) to finance the acquisition, improvement,
  or repair of equipment needed in the operation described in the application
  if the plan contained in the application provides for the commitment, to
  the extent that the applicant is unable to obtain sufficient credit from
  commercial or cooperative lenders for such purposes at reasonable rates
  and terms (taking into consideration prevailing private and cooperative
  rates and terms in the community in which the operation is, or is to be,
  located, for loans for similar purposes and periods of time).
  `(4) PRIORITY IN PURCHASE OF INVENTORY EQUIPMENT; LOANS OR GUARANTEES
  FOR THE PURCHASES IN CERTAIN CASES- During the commitment period, the
  Secretary shall--
  `(A) accord the applicant whose application is approved under subsection
  (d) priority for the purchase of equipment in the inventory of the Farmers
  Home Administration necessary for the success of the operation described
  in the application; and
  `(B) provide the applicant with loans under this subtitle or loan
  guarantees under section 309(h) to finance the purchases if the plan
  contained in the application provides for the assistance, to the extent
  that the applicant is unable to obtain sufficient credit from commercial
  or cooperative lenders for such purpose at reasonable rates and terms
  (taking into consideration prevailing private and cooperative rates, and
  terms in the community in which the operation is, or is to be, located,
  for loans for similar purposes and periods of time).
  `(5) OTHER KINDS OF ASSISTANCE- During the commitment period, the Farmers
  Home Administration, the Extension Service, the Soil Conservation Service,
  and the other entities of the Department of Agriculture shall provide the
  applicant with such other assistance and information as may be needed in
  developing and implementing the operation described in the application.
  `(6) FEES-
  `(A) SECRETARY- The Secretary shall not charge a fee to any person
  (including a lender) in connection with any loan guarantee provided in
  accordance with this section.
  `(B) LENDER- A lender may charge a loan origination and servicing fee in
  connection with a loan or loan guarantee provided in accordance with this
  section in an amount not to exceed 1 percent of the amount of the loan.
  `(f) ANNUAL PLAN REVISIONS REQUIRED AS CONDITION OF CONTINUED ASSISTANCE-
  The Secretary shall not provide assistance under this section for an
  operation for any particular year after the first year for which the
  assistance is provided, unless--
  `(1) not later than 60 days before the assistance is to be first provided
  for the particular year, the plan describing the operation has been revised,
  pursuant to section 360, based on the experience of the year preceding
  the particular year, to provide the information required by subsection (b)
  for the 5-year period beginning with the particular year (or, if shorter,
  the period beginning with the particular year and ending with the year in
  which the plan projects the operation as becoming financially viable); and
  `(2) the Secretary has approved the revised plan.
  `(g) EFFECTS OF AVOIDABLE FAILURE TO ACHIEVE GOALS-
  `(1) TERMINATION OF COMMITMENTS- The Secretary shall revoke commitment
  for assistance made to an applicant under this section if the operation of
  the applicant fails, for 2 consecutive years, to meet the goals specified
  in the plan, unless the failure has not materially reduced the likelihood
  of the operation becoming financially viable and is due to circumstances
  beyond the control of the applicant.
  `(2) SUSPENSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR ASSISTANCE- During the 3-year period
  that begins with the date a commitment made to an applicant is revoked
  under paragraph (1), the applicant shall not be eligible for assistance
  under this section.'.
SEC. 9. GRADUATION OF BORROWERS WITH OPERATING LOANS OR GUARANTEES TO PRIVATE
COMMERCIAL CREDIT.
  Subtitle B (7 U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) (as amended by section 8 of this Act)
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 319. GRADUATION OF BORROWERS WITH OPERATING LOANS OR GUARANTEES TO
PRIVATE COMMERCIAL CREDIT.
  `(a) GRADUATION PLAN- The Secretary shall establish a plan, in coordination
  with activities under sections 359, 360, 361, and 362, to encourage each
  borrower with an outstanding loan under this subtitle or with respect to
  whom there is an outstanding guarantee under this subtitle to graduate to
  private commercial or other sources of credit.
  `(b) LIMITATION ON PERIOD FOR WHICH BORROWERS ARE ELIGIBLE FOR ASSISTANCE
  UNDER THIS SUBTITLE- Notwithstanding any other provision of this subtitle:
  `(1) GENERAL RULE- Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary
  shall not--
  `(A) make a loan to a borrower under this subtitle for any year after the
  10th year for which such a loan is made to the borrower; or
  `(B) guarantee for any year a loan made to a borrower for a purpose specified
  in this subtitle, after the 15th year for which loans under this subtitle
  are made to, or such a guarantee is provided with respect to, the borrower.
  `(2) TRANSITION RULE- If, as of the date of enactment of this section,
  the Secretary has made a loan to a borrower under this subtitle for 5 or
  more years, or has provided a guarantee for 10 or more years with respect
  to one or more loans made to the borrower for a purpose specified in this
  subtitle, the Secretary shall not make a loan to the borrower under this
  subtitle, or provide such a guarantee with respect to a loan made to the
  borrower for a purpose specified in this subtitle, after the 5th year
  occurring after the date of enactment for which a loan is made under this
  subtitle to, or such a guarantee is provided with respect to, the borrower.'.
SEC. 10. CONSIDERATION OF BORROWERS FOR LOAN SERVICE PROGRAMS.
  The first sentence of section 331D(e) (7 U.S.C. 1981d(e)) is amended by
  inserting after `not later than 60 days after receipt of the notice required
  in this section' the following: `or, in extraordinary circumstances as
  determined by the applicable State director, after the 60-day period'.
SEC. 11. TIME PERIOD WITHIN WHICH COUNTY COMMITTEE IS REQUIRED TO MEET TO
CONSIDER APPLICATIONS FOR FARM OWNERSHIP AND OPERATING LOANS AND GUARANTEES
AND BEGINNING FARMER PLANS.
  Section 332 (7 U.S.C. 1982) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c), by striking `The committee' and inserting `Subject
  to subsection (e), the committee'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(e) The county committee shall meet to consider approval of an application
  received by the committee for a loan under this title, a guarantee under
  section 309(h), or a plan of farm operation under section 318, not later
  than--
  `(1) 5 days after receipt of the application if at the time of the receipt
  there is at least one other such application or plan pending; or
  `(2) 15 days after receipt of the application if at the time of the receipt
  there are no other such applications or plans pending.'.
SEC. 12. INCREASE IN PERIOD DURING WHICH COUNTY COMMITTEE LOAN ELIGIBILITY
CERTIFICATION CONTINUES IN EFFECT.
  Section 333(2)(A)(iii) (7 U.S.C. 1983(2)(A)(iii)) is amended by striking
  `2 years' and inserting `5 years'.
SEC. 13. PROCESSING OF APPLICATIONS FOR FARM OPERATING LOANS.
  Section 333A(a)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1983a(a)(2)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(A)' after `(2)';
  (2) by inserting `(other than under subtitle B)' after `under this title';
  and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(B)(i) Not later than 10 calendar days after the Secretary receives an
  application for an operating loan or loan guarantee under subtitle B, the
  Secretary shall notify the applicant of any information required before
  a decision may be made on the application. On receipt of an application,
  the Secretary shall request from other parties such information as may be
  needed in connection with the application.
  `(ii) Not later than 15 calendar days after the date an agency of the
  Department of Agriculture receives a request for information made pursuant
  to clause (i), the agency shall provide the Secretary with the requested
  information.
  `(iii) If, not later than 20 calendar days after the date a request is
  made pursuant to clause (i) with respect to an application, the Secretary
  has not received the information requested, the Secretary shall notify
  the applicant and the district office of the Farmers Home Administration,
  in writing, of the outstanding information.
  `(iv) A county office shall notify the district office of the Farmers Home
  Administration of each application for an operating loan or loan guarantee
  under subtitle B that is pending more than 45 days after receipt, and the
  reasons the application is pending.
  `(v) A district office that receives a notice provided under clause (iv)
  with respect to an application shall immediately take steps to ensure that
  final action is taken on the application not later than 15 days after the
  date of the receipt of the notice.
  `(vi) The district office shall report to the State office of the Farmers
  Home Administration on each application for an operating loan or loan
  guarantee under subtitle B that is pending more than 45 days after receipt
  by the county committee, and the reasons the application is pending.
  `(vii) Each month, the Secretary shall notify the Committee on Agriculture
  of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
  and Forestry of the Senate, on a State-by-State basis, as to each application
  for an operating loan or loan guarantee under subtitle B on which final
  action had not been taken within 60 calendar days after receipt by the
  Secretary, and the reasons final action had not been taken.'.
SEC. 14. GRADUATION OF SEASONED DIRECT LOAN BORROWERS TO THE LOAN GUARANTEE
PROGRAM.
  Section 333A (7 U.S.C. 1983a) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(f)(1) As used in this subsection:
  `(A) The term `approved lender' means a lender approved prior to the date
  of enactment of this subsection by the Secretary under the approved lender
  program established by exhibit A to subpart B of part 1980 of title 7,
  Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 1991), or a lender
  certified under section 114.
  `(B) The term `seasoned direct loan borrower' means a borrower receiving
  a direct loan under this title who has been classified as `commercial' or
  `standard' under subpart W of part 2006 of the Instruction Manual (as in
  effect on January 1, 1991).
  `(2) The Secretary, or a contracting third party, shall annually review
  under section 360 the loans of each seasoned loan borrower. If, based
  on the review, it is determined that a borrower would be able to obtain
  a loan, guaranteed by the Secretary, from a commercial or cooperative
  lender at reasonable rates and terms for loans for similar purposes and
  periods of time, the Secretary shall assist the borrower in applying for
  the commercial or cooperative loan.
  `(3) In accordance with section 362, the Secretary shall prepare a
  prospectus on each seasoned direct loan borrower determined eligible to
  obtain a guaranteed loan. The prospectus shall contain a description of
  the amounts of loan guarantee and interest assistance that the Secretary
  will provide to the seasoned direct loan borrower to enable the seasoned
  direct loan borrower to carry out a financially viable farming plan if a
  guaranteed loan is made.
  `(4) With the approval of the borrower, the Secretary shall provide the
  prospectus of the seasoned direct loan borrower to each approved lender whose
  lending area includes the location of the seasoned direct loan borrower. If
  the Secretary receives an offer from an approved lender to extend credit
  to the seasoned direct loan borrower under terms and conditions contained
  in the prospectus, the seasoned direct loan borrower shall not be eligible
  for an insured loan from the Secretary under subtitle A or B, except as
  otherwise provided in this subsection.
  `(5) If the Secretary is unable to provide loan guarantees and, if
  necessary, interest assistance to the seasoned direct loan borrower under
  this subsection in amounts sufficient to enable the seasoned direct loan
  borrower to borrow from commercial sources the amount required to carry out
  a financially viable farming plan, or if the Secretary does not receive an
  offer from an approved lender to extend credit to a seasoned direct loan
  borrower under the terms and conditions contained in the prospectus, the
  Secretary shall make an insured loan to the seasoned direct loan borrower
  under subtitle A or B, whichever is applicable.
  `(6) To the extent necessary for the borrower to obtain a loan, guaranteed
  by the Secretary, from a commercial or cooperative lender, the Secretary
  shall provide interest rate reductions as provided for under section 351.'.
SEC. 15. SIMPLIFIED APPLICATION FOR GUARANTEED LOANS OF $50,000 OR LESS.
  Section 333A (7 U.S.C. 1983a) (as amended by section 14 of this Act)
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(g)(1) The Secretary shall provide to lenders a short, simplified
  application form for guarantees under this title of loans the principal
  amount of which is $50,000 or less.
  `(2) In developing the application, the Secretary shall--
  `(A) consult with commercial and cooperative lenders; and
  `(B) ensure that--
  `(i) the form can be completed manually or electronically, at the option
  of the lender;
  `(ii) the form minimizes the documentation required to accompany the form;
  `(iii) the cost of completing and processing the form is minimal; and
  `(iv) the form can be completed and processed in an expeditious manner.'.
SEC. 16. INVENTORY LEASE OR LEASE WITH OPTION TO PURCHASE.
  The fourth sentence of section 335(c)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1985(c)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(A)' after `shall be'; and
  (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `or (B)
  leased to persons eligible for assistance under the provisions of any law
  administered by the Farmers Home Administration or the Rural Development
  Administration under an annual lease or a lease with an option to purchase,
  with a preference for sale'.
SEC. 17. TRANSFER OF INDIAN LANDS PLEDGED AS COLLATERAL FOR FmHA LOANS.
  Section 335(e)(1) (7 U.S.C. 1985(e)(1)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (D)(i), by striking `If' and inserting `Except as
  provided in subparagraph (G), if'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(G)(i) If--
  `(I) the real property described in subparagraph (A)(i) is located within
  an Indian reservation;
  `(II) the borrower-owner is an Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the
  reservation in which the real property is located or the borrower-owner
  is a member of an Indian tribe;
  `(III) the borrower-owner has obtained a loan made, insured, or guaranteed
  under this title; and
  `(IV) the borrower-owner and the Secretary have exhausted all of the
  procedures provided for in this title to permit a borrower-owner to retain
  title to the real property, such that it is necessary for the borrower-owner
  to relinquish title,
the Secretary shall dispose of or administer the property only as provided
in subparagraph (D), as modified by this subparagraph.
  `(ii) The Secretary shall provide the borrower-owner of real property that
  is described in clause (i) with written notice of--
  `(I) the right of the borrower-owner to voluntarily convey the real property
  to the Secretary; and
  `(II) the fact that real property so conveyed will be placed in the
  inventory of the Secretary.
  `(iii) The Secretary shall provide the borrower-owner of the real property
  with written notice of the rights and protections provided under this title
  to the borrower-owner, and the Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over
  the reservation in which the real property is located, from foreclosure
  or liquidation of the real property, including written notice of--
  `(I) the provisions of subparagraphs (C)(i), (C)(ii), and (D), this
  subparagraph, and subsection (g)(6);
  `(II) if the borrower-owner does not voluntarily convey the real property
  to the Secretary, that--
  `(aa) the Secretary may foreclose on the property;
  `(bb) in the event of foreclosure, the property will be offered for sale;
  `(cc) the Secretary must offer a bid for the property that is equal to
  the fair market value of the property or the outstanding principal and
  interest of the loan, whichever is higher;
  `(dd) the property may be purchased by another party; and
  `(ee) if the property is purchased by another party, the property will
  not be placed in the inventory of the Secretary and the borrower-owner
  will forfeit the rights and protections provided under this title; and
  `(III) the opportunity of the borrower-owner to consult with the Indian tribe
  that has jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real property is
  located or counsel to determine if State or tribal law provides rights and
  protections that are more beneficial than those provided the borrower-owner
  under this title.
  `(iv)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II), the Secretary shall accept
  the voluntary conveyance of real property described in clause (i).
  `(II) If a hazardous substance (as defined in section 101(14) of the
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
  1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601(14))) is located on the property and the Secretary
  takes remedial action to protect human health or the environment if the
  property is taken into inventory, the Secretary shall accept the voluntary
  conveyance of the property only if the Secretary determines that it is in
  the best interests of the Federal Government.
  `(v) If a borrower-owner does not voluntarily convey to the Secretary real
  property described in clause (i), at least 30 days before a foreclosure
  sale of the property, the Secretary shall provide written notice to the
  Indian tribe that has jurisdiction over the reservation in which the real
  property is located of--
  `(I) the sale;
  `(II) the fair market value of the property; and
  `(III) the requirements of this subparagraph.
  `(vi)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II), at a foreclosure sale of
  real property described in clause (i), the Secretary shall offer a bid
  for the property that is equal to the higher of--
  `(aa) the fair market value of the property; or
  `(bb) the outstanding principal and interest of the loan.
  `(II) If a hazardous substance (as defined in section 101(14) of the
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980
  (42 U.S.C. 9601(14))) is located on the property and the Secretary takes
  remedial action to protect human health or the environment if the property
  is taken into inventory, subclause (I) shall apply only if the Secretary
  determines that it is in the best interests of the Federal Government.'.
SEC. 18. DEBT SERVICE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS; CERTIFIED LENDERS PROGRAM.
  Section 339 (7 U.S.C. 1989) is amended--
  (1) by striking `SEC. 339. The' and inserting the following:
`SEC. 339. RULES AND REGULATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(b) DEBT SERVICE MARGIN REQUIREMENTS- Notwithstanding subsection (a), in
  providing farmer program loan guarantees under this title, the Secretary
  shall consider the income of the borrower adequate if the income is equal
  to or greater than the income necessary--
  `(1) to make principal and interest payments on all debt obligations of
  the borrower, in a timely manner;
  `(2) to cover the necessary living expenses of the family of the borrower;
  and
  `(3) to pay all other obligations and expenses of the borrower not financed
  through debt obligations referred to in paragraph (1), including expenses of
  replacing capital items (determined after taking into account depreciation
  of the items).
  `(c) CERTIFIED LENDERS PROGRAM-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall establish a program under which the
  Secretary shall guarantee loans for any purpose specified in subtitle B
  that are made by lending institutions certified by the Secretary.
  `(2) CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS- The Secretary shall certify a lending
  institution that meets such criteria as the Secretary may prescribe in
  regulations, including the ability of the institution to properly make,
  service, and liquidate the loans of the institution.
  `(3) CONDITION OF CERTIFICATION- As a condition of the certification, the
  Secretary shall require the institution to undertake to service the loans
  guaranteed by the Secretary under this subsection, using standards that
  are not less stringent than generally accepted banking standards concerning
  loan servicing employed by prudent commercial or cooperative lenders. The
  Secretary shall, at least annually, monitor the performance of each certified
  lender to ensure that the conditions of the certification are being met.
  `(4) EFFECT OF CERTIFICATION- Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
  `(A) The Secretary shall guarantee 80 percent of a loan made under this
  subsection by a certified lending institution as described in paragraph (1),
  subject to county committee certification that the borrower of the loan meets
  the eligibility requirements and such other criteria as may be applicable
  to loans guaranteed by the Secretary under other provisions of this title.
  `(B) With respect to loans to be guaranteed by the Secretary under this
  subsection, the Secretary shall permit certified lending institutions
  to make appropriate certifications (as provided by regulations issued by
  the Secretary)--
  `(i) relating to issues such as creditworthiness, repayment ability,
  adequacy of collateral, and feasibility of farm operation; and
  `(ii) that the borrower is in compliance with all requirements of law,
  including regulations issued by the Secretary.
  `(C) The Secretary shall approve or disapprove a guarantee not later than
  14 calendar days after the date that the lending institution applied to the
  Secretary for the guarantee. If the Secretary rejects the loan application
  within the 14-day period, the Secretary shall state, in writing, all of
  the reasons the application was rejected.
  `(5) RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER REQUIREMENTS- Neither this subsection nor
  subsection (d) shall affect the responsibility of the Secretary to
  certify eligibility, review financial information, and otherwise assess
  an application.
  `(d) Preferred Certified Lenders Program-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Commencing not later than two years after the date of
  enactment of the Agricultural Credit Improvement Act of 1992, the Secretary
  shall establish a Preferred Certified Lenders Program for lenders who
  establish their--
  `(A) knowledge of, and experience under, the program established under
  subsection (c);
  `(B) knowledge of the regulations concerning the guaranteed loan program; and
  `(C) proficiency related to the certified lender program requirements.
The Secretary shall certify any lending institution as a Preferred Certified
Lender that meets such criteria as the Secretary may prescribe by regulation.
  `(2) REVOCATION OF DESIGNATION- The designation of a lender as a Preferred
  Certified Lender shall be revoked at any time that the Secretary determines
  that such lender is not adhering to the rules and regulations applicable
  to the program or if the loss experiences of a Preferred Certified Lender
  are excessive as compared to other Preferred Certified Lenders, except that
  such suspension or revocation shall not affect any outstanding guarantee.
  `(3) CONDITION OF CERTIFICATION- As a condition of such preferred
  certification, the Secretary shall require the institution to undertake to
  service the loans guaranteed by the Secretary under this subsection using
  generally accepted banking standards concerning loan servicing employed by
  prudent commercial or cooperative lenders. The Secretary shall, at least
  annually, monitor the performance of each preferred certified lender to
  ensure that the conditions of such certification are being met.
  `(4) EFFECT OF PREFERRED LENDER CERTIFICATION- Notwithstanding any other
  provision of law, the Secretary shall--
  `(A) guarantee 80 percent of an approved loan made by a certified lending
  institution as described in this subsection, subject to county committee
  certification that the borrower meets the eligibility requirements or such
  other criteria as may be applicable to loans guaranteed by the Secretary
  under other provisions of this title;
  `(B) permit certified lending institutions to make all decisions, with
  respect to loans to be guaranteed by the Secretary under this subsection
  relating to credit worthiness, the closing, monitoring, collection and
  liquidation of loans, and to accept appropriate certifications, as provided
  by regulations issued by the Secretary, that the borrower is in compliance
  with all requirements of law or regulations promulgated by the Secretary; and
  `(C) be deemed to have guaranteed 80 percent of a loan made by a preferred
  certified lending institution as described in paragraph (1), if the Secretary
  fails to approve or reject the application of such institution within 14
  calendar days after the date that the lending institution presented the
  application to the Secretary. If the Secretary rejects the application
  within the 14-day period, the Secretary shall state, in writing, the
  reasons the application was rejected.'.
SEC. 19. DEFINITION OF QUALIFIED BEGINNING FARMER OR RANCHER.
  Section 343(a) (7 U.S.C. 1991(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `this title (1) the term' and all that follows through
  `fish farming,' at the end of paragraph (1) and inserting `this title:
  `(1) The term `farmer' includes a person who is engaged in, or who, with
  assistance afforded under this title, intends to engage in, fish farming.';
  (2) by indenting, and aligning the margins of, paragraphs (2) through (10)
  so as to align with paragraph (1) (as amended by paragraph (1));
  (3) by striking `the' the first place it appears in each of such paragraphs
  and inserting `The';
  (4) by striking the comma at the end of each of paragraphs (2) through
  (8) and inserting a period;
  (5) by striking `, and' at the end of paragraph (9) and inserting a
  period; and
  (6) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(11) The term `qualified beginning farmer or rancher' means an applicant--
  `(A) who is eligible for assistance under this title;
  `(B) who has not operated a farm or ranch, or who has operated a farm or
  ranch for not more than 10 years;
  `(C) in the case of a cooperative, corporation, partnership, or joint
  operation, who has members, stockholders, partners, or joint operators
  who are all related to one another by blood or marriage;
  `(D)(i) in the case of an owner and operator of a farm or ranch, who--
  `(I) in the case of a loan made to an individual, individually or with
  the immediate family of the applicant--
  `(aa) materially and substantially participates in the operation of the
  farm or ranch; and
  `(bb) provides substantial day-to-day labor and management of the farm or
  ranch, consistent with the practices in the State or county in which the
  farm or ranch is located; or
  `(II)(aa) in the case of a loan made to a cooperative, corporation,
  partnership, or joint operation, has members, stockholders, partners, or
  joint operators, materially and substantially participate in the operation
  of the farm or ranch; and
  `(bb) in the case of a loan made to a corporation, has stockholders,
  all of whom are qualified beginning farmers or ranchers; and
  `(ii) in the case of an applicant seeking to own and operate a farm or
  ranch, who--
  `(I) in the case of a loan made to an individual, individually or with
  the immediate family of the applicant, will--
  `(aa) materially and substantially participate in the operation of the
  farm or ranch; and
  `(bb) provide substantial day-to-day labor and management of the farm or
  ranch, consistent with the practices in the State or county in which the
  farm or ranch is located; or
  `(II)(aa) in the case of a loan made to a cooperative, corporation,
  partnership, or joint operation, will have members, stockholders, partners,
  or joint operators, materially and substantially participate in the
  operation of the farm or ranch; and
  `(bb) in the case of a loan made to a corporation, has stockholders,
  all of whom are qualified beginning farmers or ranchers;
  `(E) who agrees to participate in such loan assessment, borrower training,
  and financial management programs as the Secretary may require;
  `(F) who does not own land or who, directly or through interests in family
  farm corporations, owns land, the aggregate acreage of which does not exceed
  15 percent of the median acreage of the farms or ranches, as the case may
  be, in the county in which the farm or ranch operations of the applicant
  are located, as reported in the most recent census of agriculture taken
  under section 142 of title 13, United States Code; and
  `(G) who demonstrates that the available resources of the applicant and
  spouse (if any) of the applicant are not sufficient to enable the applicant
  to continue farming or ranching on a viable scale.'.
SEC. 20. TARGETING OF FUNDS.
  (a) FARM OPERATING LOANS FOR BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS- Section
  346(b) (7 U.S.C. 1994(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(5)(A) In expending funds available for insured operating loans under
  subtitle B, including loans made under section 318--
  `(i) during the first 6 months of fiscal year 1994, the Secretary shall
  reserve not less than 30 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year
  to make insured operating loans to qualified beginning farmers or ranchers;
  `(ii) during the first 6 months of each of fiscal years 1995 and 1996,
  the Secretary shall reserve not less than 40 percent of the funds available
  for the fiscal year to make insured operating loans to qualified beginning
  farmers or ranchers; and
  `(iii) during the first 6 months of each of fiscal years 1997 and thereafter,
  the Secretary may reserve not more than 50 percent of the funds available
  for the fiscal year to make insured operating loans to qualified beginning
  farmers or ranchers.
  `(B) In each fiscal year described in subparagraph (A), with regard to the
  funds not reserved under subparagraph (A), a qualified beginning farmer
  or rancher may apply for insured operating loans, but shall not receive
  any preference as a result of status as a qualified beginning farmer
  or rancher.'.
  (b) PORTIONS OF FARM OWNERSHIP LOAN GUARANTEE FUNDS TARGETED TO BEGINNING
  FARMERS OR RANCHERS- Section 346(b)(2) (7 U.S.C. 1994(b)(2)) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new sentence: `Not less than 25 percent
  of the amounts appropriated for guarantees of farm ownership loans for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 shall be reserved by
  the Secretary during the first 6 months of the respective fiscal year for
  guarantees of farm ownership loans to beginning farmers or ranchers.'.
  (c) FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS-
  (1) PERCENTAGE OF INSURED FARM OWNERSHIP LOAN FUNDS RESERVED FOR BEGINNING
  FARMERS OR RANCHERS- Section 346(b)(3) is amended by adding at the end
  the following new subparagraph:
  `(D) To the extent that it is not inconsistent with an exercise of authority
  under section 355, in expending funds available for insured farm ownership
  loans--
  `(i) during fiscal year 1994, the Secretary shall reserve not less than
  55 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year to make insured farm
  ownership loans to qualified beginning farmers or ranchers;
  `(ii) during fiscal year 1995, the Secretary shall reserve not more than
  65 percent of the funds available for the fiscal year to make insured farm
  ownership loans to qualified beginning farmers or ranchers; and
  `(iii) during each of fiscal years 1996 and thereafter, the Secretary
  may reserve not less than 65 percent and not more than 70 percent of the
  funds available for the fiscal year to make insured farm ownership loans
  to qualified beginning farmers or ranchers.'.
  (2) FUNDS RESERVED FOR DOWN PAYMENT LOAN PROGRAM- Section 346(b)(3)
  (as amended by paragraph (1) of this subsection) is further amended by
  adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(E) To the extent that it is not inconsistent with an exercise of authority
  under section 355, the Secretary shall reserve not less than 60 percent
  of the amounts reserved for qualified beginning farmers or ranchers under
  subparagraph (D) for any fiscal year for down payment loans under section
  310E.'.
  (3) CERTAIN UNOBLIGATED DOWN PAYMENT LOAN PROGRAM FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR ANY
  TYPE OF INSURED FARM OWNERSHIP LOANS FOR BEGINNING FARMERS AND RANCHERS-
  Section 346(b)(3) (as amended by paragraph (2) of this subsection) is
  further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(F) To the extent that it is not inconsistent with an exercise of authority
  under section 355, to the maximum extent practicable, any funds reserved
  for down payment loans under section 310E for a fiscal year by reason of
  subparagraph (E) that are not obligated by the end of the second quarter of
  the fiscal year shall be available during the third quarter of the fiscal
  year for any type of insured farm ownership loans to beginning farmers
  and ranchers.'.
  (d) INTEREST RATE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM- Section 346(b)(3) (as amended by
  subsection (c)(3) of this section) is further amended by adding at the
  end the following new subparagraph:
  `(G) Not less than 40 percent of the amounts available for the interest
  rate reduction program under section 351 shall be reserved for the first 6
  months of each fiscal year for assistance to beginning farmers or ranchers.'.
  (e) DOWN PAYMENT LOAN PROGRAM- Section 346(b) (as amended by subsection
  (a) of this section) is further amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, at the end of the
  third quarter of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall transfer, and use
  to carry out section 310E, 75 percent of the amount that would otherwise
  be available for guaranteed operating loans.'.
SEC. 21. EQUAL ACCESS TO FmHA ASSISTANCE BY GENDER.
  (a) TARGET PARTICIPATION RATES- Section 355(a) (7 U.S.C. 2003(a))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by striking `In establishing' and inserting `Except
  as provided in paragraph (3), in establishing'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) GENDER- With respect to gender, target participation rates shall
  take into consideration the number of current and potential socially
  disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in a State in proportion to the total
  number of farmers and ranchers in the State.'.
  (b) TARGETING OF LOANS TO MEMBERS OF GROUPS WHOSE MEMBERS HAVE BEEN
  SUBJECTED TO GENDER PREJUDICE- Section 355(e)(1) (7 U.S.C. 2003(e)(1))
  is amended by striking `or ethnic' and inserting `, ethnic, or gender'.
  (c) RECORDKEEPING OF LOANS BY BORROWER'S GENDER- Subtitle D (7 U.S.C. 1981
  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 369. RECORDKEEPING OF LOANS BY BORROWER'S GENDER.
  `The Secretary shall classify, by gender, records of applicants for loans
  and loan guarantees under this title.'.
SEC. 22. STATE MEDIATION PROGRAMS.
  Section 502 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (7 U.S.C. 5102)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking `50' and inserting `70'; and
  (2) in subsection (c), by inserting `with respect to which the amount was
  paid' before the period.
SEC. 23. REGULATIONS.
  (a) INTERIM REGULATIONS- Not later than 180 days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue such interim
  regulations as are necessary to implement this Act and the amendments made
  by this Act.
  (b) FINAL REGULATIONS- Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary
  of Agriculture shall issue such final regulations as are necessary to
  implement this Act and the amendments made by this Act.
SEC. 24. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
  Section 306C(a)(2) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) Certain areas targeted-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Loans and grants under paragraph (1) shall be made only
  if the loan or grant funds will be used primarily to provide water or
  waste services, or both, to residents of a county--
  `(i) the per capita income of the residents of which is not more than 70
  percent of the national average per capita income, as determined by the
  Department of Commerce; and
  `(ii) the unemployment rate of the residents of which is not less than
  125 percent of the national average unemployment rate, as determined by
  the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
  `(B) EXCEPTION- Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), loans and grants under
  paragraph (1) may also be made if the loan or grant funds will be used
  primarily to provide water or waste services, or both, to residents of a
  rural area that was recognized as a colonia as of October 1, 1989.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.