 
--H.R.5560--
H.R.5560
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To extend for one year the National Commission on Time and Learning, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXTENSION OF COMMISSION.
 Section 102(h) of Public Law 102-62 is amended by striking `and 1993'
 and inserting `1993, and 1994'.
SEC. 2. TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) CIVIC EDUCATION PROGRAM- Section 4609 of Public Law 89-10, as amended
 (20 U.S.C. 3156(b)), is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3) of subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking the heading and inserting the following new heading:
 `CONTRACT OR GRANT AUTHORIZED- '; and
 (B) by inserting `or grant' after `contract';
 (2) by amending paragraph (3) of subsection (b) to read as follows:
 `(3) an annual national competition of simulated congressional hearings
 for secondary students who wish to participate in such program.'; and
 (3) in subsection (c) by inserting `and secondary' after `elementary'.
 (b) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS-
 (1) Section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `Assistant Secretaries of Education (6)' and inserting `Assistant Secretaries
 of Education (10)'.
 (2) Section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking
 `Additional Officers, Department of Education (4)'.
 (3) The amendments made by paragraphs (1) and (2) shall take effect on the
 first day of the first pay period that begins on or after the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
 (c) SCHOOLWIDE PROJECTS- (1) Section 1015(b)(6)(B) of Public Law 89-10,
 as amended (20 U.S.C. 2725(b)(6)(B)), is amended to read as follows:
 `(B) the average per pupil expenditure in schools described in subsection (a)
 (excluding amounts expended under a State compensatory education program) for
 the fiscal year in which the plan is to be carried out will not be less than
 such expenditure in the previous fiscal year in such schools, except that--
 `(i) the cost of services for programs described in section 1018(d)(2)(A)
 shall be included for each fiscal year as appropriate only in proportion
 to the number of children in the building served in such programs in the
 year for which this determination is made; and
 `(ii) if the average per pupil expenditure of the local educational agency
 is less than such expenditure in the previous fiscal year, the average per
 pupil expenditure of schools described in subsection (a) may be reduced
 by the local educational agency in the exact proportion to the average
 reduction of expenditures for all schools in such agency.'.
 (2) APPLICATION- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be effective on
 or after July 1, 1992.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.