 
--H.R.2031--
H.R.2031
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to
provide for equal treatment of telephone and electric cooperative welfare
plans for the purposes of preemption.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Rural Telephone Cooperative Associations
 ERISA Amendments Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. EQUAL TREATMENT OF TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC COOPERATIVE WELFARE PLANS
FOR PURPOSES OF PREEMPTION.
 Section 3(40) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29
 U.S.C. 1002(40)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking `or' at the end;
 (2) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking `cooperative.' and inserting
 `cooperative, or';
 (3) by adding at the end of subparagraph (A) the following new clause:
 `(iii) by a rural telephone cooperative association.';
 (4) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking `and' at the end;
 (5) in subparagraph (B)(iv)(II), by striking `subclause (I).' and inserting
 `subclause (I), and'; and
 (6) by adding at the end of subparagraph (B) the following new clause:
 `(v) the term `rural telephone cooperative association' means an organization
 described in paragraph (4) or (6) of section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue
 Code of 1986 which is exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code
 and at least 80 percent of the members of which are organizations engaged
 primarily in providing telephone service to rural areas of the United States
 on a mutual, cooperative, or other basis.'.
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by section 2 shall take effect on the date of the
 enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.