 
--H.R.598--
H.R.598
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the capability of the
Department of Veterans Affairs to recruit and retain physicians and dentists
through increases in special pay authorities, to authorize collective
bargaining over conditions of employment for health-care employees of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Department of Veterans
 Affairs Health-Care Personnel Act of 1991'.
 (b) REFERENCES TO TITLE 38- Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever
 in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to,
 or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered
 to be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 2. RENAMING OF VETERANS HEALTH SERVICES AND RESEARCH ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) RENAMING- The establishment in the Department of Veterans Affairs
 known as the Veterans Health Services and Research Administration is hereby
 redesignated as the Veterans Health Administration.
 (b) REFERENCES- Any reference to the Veterans Health Services and Research
 Administration (or to the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the Veterans'
 Administration) in any Federal law, Executive order, regulation, delegation
 of authority, or document of or pertaining to the Department of Veterans
 Affairs shall be deemed to refer to the Veterans Health Administration.
TITLE I--SPECIAL PAY FOR PHYSICIANS AND DENTISTS
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Department of Veterans Affairs Physician
 and Dentist Recruitment and Retention Act of 1991'.
SEC. 102. REVISION AND REORGANIZATION OF SPECIAL PAY STATUTE.
 Part V is amended by inserting after chapter 73 the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 74--VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION--PERSONNEL
`SUBCHAPTER III--SPECIAL PAY FOR PHYSICIANS AND DENTISTS
`7431. Special pay: authority.
`7432. Special pay: written agreements.
`7433. Special pay: full-time physicians.
`7434. Special pay: part-time physicians.
`7435. Special pay: full-time dentists.
`7436. Special pay: part-time dentists.
`7437. Special pay: general provisions.
`7438. Special pay: coordination with other benefits laws.
`7439. Periodic review of pay of physicians and dentists; quadrennial report.
`7440. Annual report.
`SUBCHAPTER III--SPECIAL PAY FOR PHYSICIANS AND DENTISTS
`Sec. 7431. Special pay: authority
 `(a) In order to recruit and retain highly qualified physicians and dentists
 in the Veterans Health Administration, the Secretary shall provide special pay
 under this subchapter. Such special pay shall be provided under regulations
 that the Secretary shall prescribe to carry out this subchapter. Before
 prescribing regulations under this subchapter, the Secretary shall receive
 the recommendations of the Chief Medical Director with respect to those
 regulations.
 `(b) Special pay may be paid to a physician or dentist under this subchapter
 only upon the execution of, and for the duration of, a written agreement
 entered into by the physician or dentist in accordance with section 7432
 of this title.
 `(c) A physician or dentist serving a period of obligated service pursuant
 to chapter 76 of this title is not eligible for special pay under this
 subchapter during the first three years of such obligated service, except
 that, at the discretion of the Secretary and upon the recommendation of
 the Chief Medical Director, such a physician or dentist may be paid special
 pay for full-time status during those three years.
 `(d)(1) The Secretary may determine categories of positions applicable to
 either physicians or dentists, or both, in the Veterans Health Administration
 as to which there is no significant recruitment and retention problem. While
 any such determination is in effect, the Secretary may not enter into an
 agreement under this subchapter with a physician or dentist serving in
 a position covered by the determination.  Before making a determination
 under this paragraph, the Secretary shall receive the recommendations of
 the Chief Medical Director with respect to the determination.
 `(2) Not later than one year after making any such determination with
 respect to a category of positions, and each year thereafter that such
 determination remains in effect, the Secretary shall make a redetermination.
 `(3) Any determination under this subsection shall be in accordance with
 regulations prescribed to carry out this subchapter.
 `(e) If the Chief Medical Director determines that payment of special pay
 to a physician or dentist who is employed on a less than half-time basis
 is the most cost-effective way available for providing needed medical or
 dental specialist services at a Department facility, the Chief Medical
 Director may authorize the payment of special pay for factors other than
 for full-time status to that physician or dentist at a rate computed on the
 basis of the proportion that the part-time employment of the physician or
 dentist bears to full-time employment.
 `(f) Special pay may not be paid under this section to a physician or
 dentist who--
 `(1) is employed on less than a quarter-time basis or on an intermittent
 basis;
 `(2) occupies an internship or residency training position; or
 `(3) is a reemployed annuitant.
 `(g)(1) In the case of a physician or dentist who is employed in a position
 that is covered by a determination by the Secretary under subsection (d)(1)
 that the Administration does not have a significant recruitment or retention
 problem with respect to a particular category of positions and who on the
 day before the effective date of this subchapter was receiving special
 pay under an agreement entered into under section 4118 of this title (as
 in effect before such date), the Secretary may pay to that physician or
 dentist, in addition to basic pay, retention pay under this subsection.
 `(2) The annual rate of such retention pay for any individual may not
 exceed the rate which, when added to the rate of basic pay payable to that
 individual, is equal to the sum of the annual rate of basic pay and the
 annual rate of special pay paid to that physician or dentist pursuant to
 the final agreement with that individual under such section 4118.
 `(3) Such retention pay shall be treated for all purposes as special pay
 paid under subchapter III of chapter 74 of this title.
 `(4) Retention pay under this subsection shall be paid under such regulations
 as the Secretary may prescribe.
`Sec. 7432. Special pay: written agreements
 `(a) An agreement entered into by a physician or dentist under this
 subchapter shall cover a period of one year of service in the Veterans Health
 Administration unless the physician or dentist agrees to an agreement for
 a longer period of service, not to exceed four years, as specified in the
 agreement. A physician or dentist who has previously entered into such
 an agreement is eligible to enter into a subsequent agreement unless the
 physician or dentist has failed to refund to the United States any amount
 which the physician or dentist is obligated to refund under any such
 previous agreement.
 `(b)(1) An agreement under this subchapter shall provide that, if the
 physician or dentist entering into the agreement voluntarily, or because
 of misconduct, fails to complete any of the years of service covered by
 the agreement (measured from the anniversary date of the agreement), the
 physician or dentist shall refund an amount of special pay received under
 the agreement for that year equal to--
 `(A) in the case of a failure during the first year of service under the
 agreement, 100 percent of the amount received for that year;
 `(B) in the case of a failure during the second year of service under the
 agreement, 75 percent of the amount received for that year;
 `(C) in the case of a failure during the third year of service under the
 agreement, 50 percent of the amount received for that year; and
 `(D) in the case of a failure during the fourth year of service under the
 agreement, 25 percent of the amount received for that year.
 `(2) The Secretary may waive (in whole or in part) the requirement for
 a refund under paragraph (1) in any case if the Secretary determines
 (in accordance with regulations prescribed under section 7431(a) of this
 title) that the failure to complete such period of service is the result
 of circumstances beyond the control of the physician or dentist.
 `(3) Any such agreement shall specify the terms under which the Department
 and the physician or dentist may elect to terminate the agreement.
 `(c)(1) If a proposed agreement under this subchapter will provide a total
 annual amount of special pay to be provided to a physician or dentist
 who has previously entered into an agreement under this subchapter (or
 under section 4118 of this title as in effect before the effective date
 of the Department of Veterans Affairs Physician and Dentist Recruitment
 and Retention Act of 1991) that will exceed the previous annual amount of
 special pay provided for the physician or dentist by more than 50 percent
 (other than in the case of a physician or dentist employed in an executive
 position in the Central Office of the Department), or that will be less
 than the previous annual amount of special pay provided for the physician
 or dentist by more than 25 percent, the proposed agreement shall be promptly
 submitted to the Secretary. The proposed agreement shall not take effect if
 it is disapproved by the Secretary within 60 days after the date on which
 the physician or dentist entered into the proposed agreement.
 `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the previous annual amount of special
 pay provided for a physician or dentist is the total annual amount of
 special pay provided, or to be provided, to the physician or dentist for
 the most recent year covered by an agreement entered into by the physician
 or dentist under this subchapter or under section 4118 of this title. In
 the case of an agreement entered into under section 4118 of this title,
 incentive pay shall be treated as special pay for purposes of this paragraph.
 `(3) The Secretary shall adjust special pay as necessary for purposes of
 this subsection to reflect appropriately any change in the status of a
 physician or dentist (A) from full-time status to part-time status, (B)
 from part-time status to full-time status, or (C) from one proportion of
 time spent as a Department employee under part-time status employment to
 a different proportion.
 `(d)(1) If a proposed agreement under this subchapter (other than an
 agreement in the case of the Chief Medical Director) will provide a total
 annual amount of special pay to be provided to a physician or dentist which,
 when added to the amount of basic pay of the physician or dentist, will be
 in excess of the amount payable for positions specified in section 5312 of
 title 5, the proposed agreement shall be promptly submitted for approval to
 the Secretary through the Chief Medical Director. The agreement shall take
 effect at the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the
 physician or dentist entered into the proposed agreement if it is neither
 approved nor disapproved within that 60-day period. If the agreement is
 approved within that period, the agreement shall take effect as of the
 date of the approval. A proposed agreement may be disapproved under this
 paragraph only if it is determined that the amounts of special pay proposed
 to be paid are not necessary to recruit or retain the physician or dentist.
 `(2) A proposed agreement under this subchapter with the Chief Medical
 Director may provide for payment of special pay for which the Chief Medical
 Director is eligible under this subchapter (other than that specified
 in section 7433(b)(4)(B) of this title) only to the extent specifically
 approved by the Secretary.
 `(3) The Secretary shall include in the annual report required by section
 7440 of this title--
 `(A) a statement of the number of agreements entered into during the period
 covered by the report under which the total amount of special pay to be
 provided, when added to the amount of basic pay of the physician or dentist,
 will be in excess of the amount payable for positions specified in section
 5312 of title 5;
 `(B) a statement of the number of proposed agreements which during the
 period covered by the report were disapproved under this subsection; and
 `(C) a detailed explanation of the basis for disapproval of each such
 proposed agreement which was disapproved under this subsection.
 `(4) This subsection does not apply to any proposed agreement entered into
 after September 30, 1994.
`Sec. 7433. Special pay: full-time physicians
 `(a) The Secretary shall provide special pay under this subchapter to
 eligible physicians employed on a full-time basis based upon the factors,
 and at the annual rates, specified in subsection (b).
 `(b) The special pay factors, and the annual rates, applicable to full-time
 physicians are as follows:
 `(1) For full-time status, $9,000.
 `(2)(A) For length of service as a physician within the Veterans Health
 Administration--
------------------------------------------------
 `Length of Service                Rate
                                Minimum Maximum
------------------------------------------------
 2 years but less than 4 years   $4,000 $ 6,000
 4 years but less than 8 years    6,000  12,000
 8 years but less than 12 years  12,000  18,000
 12 years or more                12,000  25,000
------------------------------------------------
 `(B) The Chief Medical Director shall specify a uniform national rate for
 each range of years of service established by or under this paragraph. The
 Chief Medical Director may, as to length of service in excess of 12 years,
 establish uniform national rates for such ranges of years of service as
 the Chief Medical Director considers appropriate.
 `(3)(A) For service in a medical specialty with respect to which there are
 extraordinary difficulties (on a nation-wide basis or on the basis of the
 needs of a specific medical facility) in the recruitment or retention of
 qualified physicians, an annual rate of not more than $40,000.
 `(B) For service by a physician who serves only a portion of a year in a
 medical specialty for which special pay is paid under subparagraph (A),
 the annual rate shall be calculated on the basis of the proportion of time
 served in the specialty for which the special pay is paid.
 `(4)(A) For service in any of the following executive positions, an annual
 rate not to exceed the rate applicable to that position as follows:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 `Position
 Rate
                                                                            Minimum
                                                                            Maximum
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Service Chief (or in a comparable position as determined by the Secretary)
 $4,500 $15,000
 Chief of Staff or in an Executive Grade
 14,500  25,000
 Director Grade
 0  25,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 `(B) For service in any of the following executive positions, the annual
 rate applicable to that position as follows:
 `Position
--Rate
`Deputy Service Director
--$20,000
`Service Director
--25,000
`Deputy Assistant Chief Medical Director
--27,500
`Assistant Chief Medical Director
--30,000
`Associate Deputy Chief Medical Director
--35,000
`Deputy Chief Medical Director
--40,000
`Chief Medical Director
--45,000
 `(C) For service by a physician who serves only a portion of a year in
 an executive position listed in subparagraph (A) or (B) or who serves a
 portion of a year in such a position and also serves a portion of that year
 in another position or grade for which special pay is provided under this
 section, the annual rate shall be calculated on the basis of the proportion
 of time served in the position or positions for which special pay is provided.
 `(5) For specialty certification or first board certification, $2,000,
 and for subspecialty certification or secondary board certification, an
 additional $500.
 `(6) For service in a specific geographic location with respect to which
 there are extraordinary difficulties in the recruitment or retention of
 qualified physicians in a specific category of physicians, an annual rate
 of not more than $17,000.
 `(7)(A) For service by a physician with exceptional qualifications within
 a specialty, an annual rate of not more than $15,000.
 `(B) Special pay under this paragraph may be paid to a physician only if
 the payment of such pay to that physician is approved by the Chief Medical
 Director personally and on a case-by-case basis and only to the extent that
 the rate paid under this paragraph, when added to the total of the rates
 paid to that physician under paragraphs (1) through (6), does not exceed the
 total rate that may be paid under those paragraphs to a physician with the
 same length of service, specialty, and position as the physician concerned.
`Sec. 7434. Special pay: part-time physicians
 `(a) Subject to section 7431(e) of this title and subsection (b) of this
 section, special pay under this subchapter for physicians employed on a
 part-time basis shall be based on the special-pay factors and annual rates
 specified in section 7433 of this title.
 `(b) The annual rate of special pay paid to a physician employed on a
 part-time basis shall bear the same ratio to the annual rate that the
 physician would be paid under section 7433 (other than for full-time
 status) if the physician were employed on a full-time basis as the amount
 of part-time employment by the physician bears to full-time employment,
 except that such ratio may not exceed 3/4.
`Sec. 7435. Special pay: full-time dentists
 `(a) The Secretary shall provide special pay under this subchapter to
 eligible dentists employed on a full-time basis based upon the factors,
 and at the annual rates, specified in subsection (b).
 `(b) The special pay factors, and the annual rates, applicable to full-time
 dentists are as follows:
 `(1) For full-time status, $3,500.
 `(2)(A) For length of service as a dentist within the Veterans Health
 Administration--
------------------------------------------------
 `Length of Service                Rate
                                Minimum Maximum
------------------------------------------------
 2 years but less than 4 years   $1,000  $2,000
 4 years but less than 8 years    2,000   3,000
 8 years but less than 12 years   3,000   3,500
 12 years or more                 3,000   4,000
------------------------------------------------
 `(B) The Chief Medical Director shall specify a uniform national rate for
 each range of years of service established by or under this paragraph. The
 Chief Medical Director may, as to length of service in excess of 12 years,
 establish uniform national rates for such ranges of years of service as
 the Chief Medical Director considers appropriate.
 `(3)(A) For service in a dental specialty with respect to which there are
 extraordinary difficulties (on a nation-wide basis or on the basis of the
 needs of a specific medical facility) in the recruitment or retention of
 qualified dentists, an annual rate of not more than $20,000.
 `(B) For service by a dentist who serves only a portion of a year in a
 dental specialty for which special pay is paid under subparagraph (A),
 the annual rate shall be calculated on the basis of the proportion of time
 served in the specialty for which the special pay is paid.
 `(4)(A) For service in any of the following executive positions, an annual
 rate not to exceed the rate applicable to that position as follows:
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 `Position
 Rate
                                                                            Minimum
                                                                            Maximum
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Service Director
 $1,000  $9,000
 Deputy Service Director
 1,000   8,000
 Chief of Staff or in an Executive Grade
 1,000   8,000
 Director Grade
 0   8,000
 Service Chief (or in a comparable position as determined by the Secretary)
 1,000   5,000
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 `(B) For service in any of the following executive positions, the annual
 rate applicable to that position as follows:
 `Position
--Rate
Assistant Chief Medical Director (or in a comparable position as determined
by the Secretary).
--$10,000
Deputy Assistant Chief Medical Director
--10,000
 `(C) For service by a dentist who serves only a portion of a year in
 an executive position listed in subparagraph (A) or (B) or who serves a
 portion of a year in such a position and also serves a portion of that year
 in another position or grade for which special pay is provided under this
 section, the annual rate shall be calculated on the basis of the proportion
 of time served in the position or positions for which special pay is provided.
 `(5) For specialty or first board certification, $2,000 and for subspecialty
 or secondary board certification, an additional $500.
 `(6) For service in a specific geographic location with respect to which
 there are extraordinary difficulties in the recruitment or retention of
 qualified dentists in a specific category of dentists, an annual rate not
 more than $5,000.
 `(7)(A) For service by a dentist with exceptional qualifications within a
 specialty, an annual rate of not more than $5,000.
 `(B) Special pay under this paragraph may be paid to a dentist only if
 the payment of such pay to that dentist is approved by the Chief Medical
 Director personally and on a case-by-case basis and only to the extent that
 the rate paid under this paragraph, when added to the total of the rates
 paid to that dentist under paragraphs (1) through (6), does not exceed the
 total rate that may be paid under those paragraphs to a dentist with the
 same length of service, specialty, and position as the dentist concerned.
`Sec. 7436. Special pay: part-time dentists
 `(a) Subject to section 7431(e) of this title and subsection (b) of this
 section, special pay under this subchapter for dentists employed on a
 part-time basis shall be based on the special-pay factors and annual rates
 specified in section 7435 of this title.
 `(b) The annual rate of special pay paid to a dentist employed on a part-time
 basis shall bear the same ratio to the annual rate that the dentist would
 be paid under section 7435 of this title (other than for full-time status)
 if the dentist were employed on a full-time basis as the amount of part-time
 employment by the dentist bears to full-time employment, except that such
 ratio may not exceed 3/4.
`Sec. 7437. Special pay: general provisions
 `(a) A physician who is provided special pay for service in an executive
 position under paragraph (4)(B) of section 7433(b) of this title may not
 also be provided scarce specialty special pay under paragraph (3) of that
 section. A dentist who is provided special pay for service in an executive
 position under paragraph (4) of section 7435(b) of this title for service
 as a Service Director, Deputy Service Director, Deputy Assistant Chief
 Medical Director, or Assistant Chief Medical Director may not also be
 provided scarce specialty special pay under paragraph (3) of that section.
 `(b) The following determinations under this subchapter shall be made under
 regulations prescribed under section 7431 of this title:
 `(1) A determination that there are extraordinary difficulties (on a
 nation-wide basis or on the basis of the needs of a specific medical
 facility) in the recruitment or retention of qualified physicians in a
 medical specialty or in the recruitment or retention of qualified dentists
 in a dental specialty.
 `(2) A determination of the rate of special pay to be paid to a physician
 or dentist for a factor of special pay for which the applicable rate is
 specified as a range of rates.
 `(3) A determination of whether there are extraordinary difficulties in a
 specific geographic location in the recruitment or retention of qualified
 physicians in a specific category of physicians or in the recruitment or
 retention of qualified dentists in a specific category of dentists.
 `(c) A determination for the purposes of this subchapter that there are
 extraordinary difficulties in the recruitment or retention of qualified
 physicians in a medical specialty, or in the recruitment or retention of
 qualified dentists in a dental specialty, on the basis of the needs of a
 specific medical facility may only be made upon the request of the director
 of that facility.
 `(d) A physician or dentist may not be provided scarce specialty pay under
 section 7433(b), 7434(b), 7435(b), or 7436(b) of this title (whichever
 is applicable) on the basis of the needs of a specific medical facility
 unless the Secretary also determines that geographic location pay under that
 section is insufficient to meet the needs of that facility for qualified
 physicians or dentists, as the case may be.
 `(e)(1) A physician or dentist shall be paid special pay under this
 subchapter at a rate not less than the rate of special pay the physician
 or dentist was paid under section 4118 of this title as of the day before
 the effective date of this subchapter if the physician or dentist--
 `(A) is employed on a full-time basis in the Veterans Health Administration;
 `(B) was employed as a physician or dentist on a full-time basis in the
 Administration on the day before such effective date; and
 `(C) on such effective date was being paid only for the special-pay factors
 of primary, full-time, and length of service.
 `(2) A physician or dentist shall be paid special pay under this subchapter
 at a rate not less than the rate of special pay the physician or dentist
 was paid under section 4118 of this title as of the day before the effective
 date of this subchapter if the physician or dentist--
 `(A) is employed on a part-time basis in the Veterans Health Administration;
 `(B) was employed as a physician or dentist on a part-time basis in the
 Administration on the day before such effective date; and
 `(C) on such effective date was being paid only for the special-pay factors
 of primary and length of service.
 `(f) Any amount of special pay payable under this subchapter shall be paid
 in equal installments in accordance with regularly established pay periods.
 `(g) Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, special pay may not be
 provided to a physician or dentist in the Veterans Health Administration for
 any factor not specified in section 7433, 7434, 7435, or 7436, as applicable,
 of this title.
 `(h) In no case may the total amount of compensation paid to a physician or
 dentist under this title in any year exceed the amount of annual compensation
 (excluding expenses) specified in section 102 of title 3.
`Sec. 7438. Special pay: coordination with other benefits laws
 `(a) Special pay paid under this subchapter shall be in addition to any
 other pay and allowances to which a physician or dentist is entitled.
 `(b)(1) A physician or dentist who has no section 4118 service and has
 completed not less than 15 years of service as a physician or dentist in
 the Veterans Health Administration shall be entitled to have special pay
 paid to the physician or dentist under this subchapter considered basic
 pay for the purposes of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, as appropriate.
 `(2) A physician or dentist who has section 4118 service and has completed
 a total of not less than 15 years of service as a physician or dentist in
 the Veterans Health Administration shall be entitled to have special pay
 paid to the physician or dentist under this subchapter considered basic pay
 for the purposes of chapter 83 or 84, as appropriate, of title 5 as follows:
 `(A) In an amount equal to the amount that would have been so considered
 under section 4118 of this title on the day before the effective date of
 this section based on the rates of special pay the physician or dentist was
 entitled to receive under that section on the day before such effective date.
 `(B) With respect to any amount of special pay received under this subchapter
 in excess of the amount such physician or dentist was entitled to receive
 under section 4118 of this title on the day before the effective date of
 this section, in an amount equal to 25 percent of such excess amount for
 each two years that the physician or dentist has completed as a physician
 or dentist in the Veterans Health Administration after the effective date
 of this section.
 `(3) All special pay paid under this subchapter shall be included in average
 pay (as defined in sections 8331(4) or 8401(3) of title 5, as appropriate)
 for purposes of computing benefits paid under section 8337, 8341 (d) or
 (e), 8442(b), 8443, or 8451 of such title.
 `(4) Special pay paid under section 4118 of this title, as in effect before
 the effective date of this section, to a physician or dentist who has section
 4118 service shall be credited to the physician or dentist for the same
 purposes and in the same manner and to the same extent that such special
 pay was credited to the physician or dentist before such effective date.
 `(5) For purposes of this subsection:
 `(A) The term `physician or dentist who has no section 4118 service' means a
 physician or dentist employed as a physician or dentist in the Veterans Health
 Administration who has no previous service as a physician or dentist in the
 Administration (or its predecessor) before the effective date of this section.
 `(B) The term `physician or dentist who has section 4118 service' means a
 physician or dentist employed as a physician or dentist in the Veterans Health
 Administration who has previous service as a physician or dentist in the
 Administration (or its predecessor) before the effective date of this section.
 `(C) Service in any predecessor entity of the Veterans Health Administration
 shall be considered to be service in the Veterans Health Administration.
 `(c) Compensation paid as special pay under this subchapter or under an
 agreement entered into under section 4118 of this title (as in effect on
 the day before the effective date of the Department of Veterans Affairs
 Physician and Dentist Recruitment and Retention Act of 1991) shall be
 considered as annual pay for the purposes of chapter 87 of title 5, relating
 to life insurance for Federal employees.
`Sec. 7439. Periodic review of pay of physicians and dentists; quadrennial
report
 `(a) In order to make possible the recruitment and retention of a
 well-qualified work force of physicians and dentists capable of providing
 quality care for eligible veterans, it is the policy of Congress to ensure
 that the levels of total pay for physicians and dentists of the Veterans
 Health Administration are fixed at levels reasonably comparable--
 `(1) with the levels of total pay of physicians and dentists employed by
 or serving in other departments and agencies of the Federal Government; and
 `(2) with the income of non-Federal physicians and dentists for the
 performance of services as physicians and dentists.
 `(b)(1) To assist the Congress and the President in carrying out the policy
 stated in subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
 `(A) define the bases for pay distinctions, if any, among various categories
 of physicians and dentists, including distinctions between physicians and
 dentists employed by the Veterans Health Administration and physicians
 and dentists employed by other departments and agencies of the Federal
 Government and between all Federal sector and non-Federal sector physicians
 and dentists; and
 `(B) obtain measures of income from the employment or practice of physicians
 and dentists outside the Administration, including both the Federal and
 non-Federal sectors, for use as guidelines for setting and periodically
 adjusting the amounts of special pay for physicians and dentists of the
 Administration.
 `(2) The Secretary shall submit to the President a report, on such date as
 the President may designate but not later than December 31, 1994, and once
 every four years thereafter, recommending appropriate rates of special pay to
 carry out the policy set forth in subsection (a) with respect to the pay of
 physicians and dentists in the Veterans Health Administration. The Secretary
 shall include in such report, when considered appropriate and necessary by
 the Secretary, recommendations for modifications of the special pay levels
 set forth in this subchapter whenever--
 `(A) the Department is unable to recruit or retain a sufficient work force
 of well-qualified physicians and dentists in the Administration because the
 incomes and other employee benefits, to the extent that those benefits are
 reasonably quantifiable, of physicians and dentists outside the Administration
 who perform comparable types of duties are significantly in excess of the
 levels of total pay (including basic pay and special pay) and other employee
 benefits, to the extent that those benefits are reasonably quantifiable,
 available to those physicians and dentists employed by the Administration; or
 `(B) other extraordinary circumstances are such that special pay levels are
 needed to recruit or retain a sufficient number of well-qualified physicians
 and dentists.
 `(c) The President shall include in the budget transmitted to the Congress
 under section 1105 of title 31 after the submission of each report of the
 Secretary under subsection (b)(2) recommendations with respect to the exact
 rates of special pay for physicians and dentists under this subchapter and
 the cost of those rates compared with the cost of the special pay rates in
 effect under this subchapter at the time the budget is transmitted.
`Sec. 7440. Annual report
 `The Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
 Senate and House of Representatives an annual report on the use of the
 authorities provided in this subchapter. The report shall be submitted each
 year as part of the budget justification documents submitted by the Secretary
 in support of the budget of the President submitted pursuant to section
 1105 of title 31 that year. Each such report shall include the following:
 `(1) A review of the use of the authorities provided in this subchapter
 (including the Secretary's and Chief Medical Director's actions, findings,
 recommendations, and other activities under this subchapter) during the
 preceding fiscal year and the fiscal year during which the report is
 submitted.
 `(2) The plans for the use of the authorities provided in this subchapter
 for the next fiscal year.
 `(3) A description of the amounts of special pay paid during the preceding
 fiscal year, shown by category of pay.
 `(4) A list of those geographic areas, and those scarce specialties, for
 which special pay was paid during the preceding fiscal year, those for
 which special pay is being paid during the current fiscal year, and those
 for which special pay is expected to be paid during the next fiscal year,
 together with a summary of any differences among those three lists.
 `(5) The number of physicians and dentists (A) who left employment with the
 Veterans Health Administration during the preceding year, (B) who changed
 from full-time status to part-time status, (C) who changed from part-time
 status to full-time status, as well as (D) a summary of the reasons therefor.
 `(6) By specialty, the number of positions created and the number of
 positions abolished during the preceding fiscal year and a summary of the
 reasons for such actions.
 `(7) The number of unfilled physician and dentist positions in each specialty
 in the Veterans Health Administration, the average and maximum lengths of
 time that such positions have been unfilled, and a summary of the reasons
 that such positions remain unfilled and, in the case of any specialty not
 designated as a scarce specialty for purposes of special pay under this
 subchapter, an explanation (including comparisons with other specialties that
 have been so designated) of why the specialty has not been so designated.'.
SEC. 103. OTHER COMPENSATION BENEFITS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subchapter I of chapter 74 (as added by section 401(b)(2))
 is amended by adding at the end the following sections:
`Sec. 7410. Additional pay authorities
 `The Secretary may authorize the Chief Medical Director to pay advance
 payments, recruitment or relocation bonuses, and retention allowances to
 the personnel described in paragraph (1) of section 7401 of this title,
 or interview expenses to candidates for appointment as such personnel,
 in the same manner, and subject to the same limitations, as in the case of
 the authority provided under sections 5524a, 5706b, 5753, and 5754 of title 5.
`Sec. 7411. Full-time board-certified physicians and dentists: reimbursement
of continuing professional education expenses
 `The Secretary shall reimburse any full-time board-certified physician or
 dentist appointed under section 7401(1) of this title for expenses incurred,
 up to $1,000 per year, for continuing professional education.'.
 (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 74 (as amended by
 section 401(b)(1)(A)) is amended by inserting after the item relating to
 section 7409 the following:
`7410. Additional pay authorities.
`7411. Full-time board-certified physicians and dentists: reimbursement of
continuing professional education expenses.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 7411 of title 38, United States Code, as added by
 subsection (a), shall apply with respect to expenses incurred for continuing
 professional education that is pursued after September 30, 1991.
SEC. 104. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION.
 (a) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subchapter III of chapter 74 of title 38, United States
 Code, as added by section 102, shall take effect on the  first day of the
 first pay period beginning after the earlier of--
 (1) July 1, 1991; or
 (2) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of
 this Act.
 (b) TRANSITIONS PROVISIONS- (1) In the case of an agreement entered into
 under section 4118 of title 38, United States Code, before the date of
 the enactment of this Act that expires after the effective date specified
 in subsection (a), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the physician or
 dentist concerned may agree to terminate that agreement as of that effective
 date in order to permit a new agreement under subchapter III of chapter 74
 of title 38, United States Code, as added by section 102, to take effect
 as of that effective date.
 (2) In the case of an agreement entered into under section 4118 of title
 38, United States Code, before the date of the enactment of this Act that
 expires during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act
 and ending on the effective date specified in subsection (a), an extension
 or renewal of that agreement may not extend beyond that effective date.
 (3) In the case of a physician or dentist who begins employment with the
 Department of Veterans Affairs during the period beginning on the date of the
 enactment of this Act and ending on the effective date specified in subsection
 (a) who is eligible for an agreement under section 4118 of title 38, United
 States Code, any such agreement may not extend beyond that effective date.
 (c) SAVINGS PROVISION- Except as provided in subsection (b)(1), any agreement
 entered into under section 4118 of title 38, United States Code, before
 the effective date specified in subsection (a) shall remain in effect in
 accordance with its terms and shall be treated for all purposes in accordance
 with such section as in effect on the day before such effective date.
 (d) PROHIBITION OF RETROACTIVE AGREEMENTS- An agreement entered into under
 subchapter III of chapter 74 of title 38, United States Code, as added by
 section 102, may not provide special pay with respect to a period before
 the effective date specified in subsection (a).
TITLE II--LABOR-MANAGEMENT RELATIONS
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Department of Veterans Affairs Labor
 Relations Improvement Act of 1991'.
SEC. 202. COLLECTIVE BARGAINING FOR TITLE 38 EMPLOYEES.
 Chapter 74, as added by section 102, is amended by inserting before subchapter
 III the following:
`SUBCHAPTER II--COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
`Sec. 7421. Personnel administration: in general
 `(a) Notwithstanding any law, Executive order, or regulation, the Secretary
 shall prescribe by regulation the hours and conditions of employment and
 leaves of absence of employees appointed under any provision of this chapter
 in positions in the Veterans Health Administration listed in subsection (b).
 `(b) Subsection (a) refers to the following positions:
 `(1) Physicians.
 `(2) Dentists.
 `(3) Podiatrists.
 `(4) Optometrists.
 `(5) Registered nurses.
 `(6) Physician assistants.
 `(7) Expanded-duty dental auxiliaries.
`Sec. 7422. Collective bargaining
 `(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, the authority
 of the Secretary to prescribe regulations under section 7421 of this title is
 subject to the right of Federal employees to engage in collective bargaining
 with respect to conditions of employment through representatives chosen by
 them in accordance with chapter 71 of title 5 (relating to labor-management
 relations).
 `(b) Such collective bargaining (and any grievance procedures provided under
 a collective bargaining agreement) in the case of employees described in
 section 7421(b) of this title may not cover, or have any applicability to,
 any matter or question concerning or arising out of (1) professional conduct
 or competence, (2) peer review, or (3) the establishment, determination,
 or adjustment of employee compensation under this title.
 `(c) For purposes of this section, the term `professional conduct or
 competence' means any of the following:
 `(1) Direct patient care.
 `(2) Clinical competence.
 `(d) An issue of whether a matter or question concerns or arises out
 of (1) professional conduct or competence, (2) peer review, or (3) the
 establishment, determination, or adjustment of employee compensation under
 this title shall be decided by the Secretary and is not itself subject to
 collective bargaining and may not be reviewed by any other agency.
 `(e) A petition for judicial review or petition for enforcement under section
 7123 of title 5 in any case involving employees described in section 7421(b)
 of this title or arising out of the applicability of chapter 71 of title 5
 to employees in those positions, shall be taken only in the United States
 Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.
`Sec. 7423. Personnel administration: full-time employees
 `(a) The hours of employment in carrying out responsibilities under this
 title of any employee who is appointed in the Administration under any
 provision of this chapter on a full-time basis in a position listed in
 section 7421(b) of this title (other than an intern or resident appointed
 pursuant to section 7406 of this title) and who accepts responsibilities
 for carrying out professional services for remuneration other than those
 assigned under this title shall consist of not less than 80 hours in a
 biweekly pay period (as that term is used in section 5504 of title 5).
 `(b) A person covered by subsection (a) may not do any of the following:
 `(1) Assume responsibility for the medical care of any patient other than
 a patient admitted for treatment at a Department facility, except in those
 cases where the person, upon request and with the approval of the Chief
 Medical Director, assumes such responsibilities to assist communities or
 medical practice groups to meet medical needs which would not otherwise
 be available for a period not to exceed 180 calendar days, which may be
 extended by the Chief Medical Director for additional periods not to exceed
 180 calendar days each.
 `(2) Teach or provide consultative services at any affiliated institution
 if such teaching or consultation will, because of its nature or duration,
 conflict with such person's responsibilities under this title.
 `(3) Accept payment under any insurance or assistance program established
 under title XVIII or XIX of the Social Security Act or under chapter 55 of
 title 10 for professional services rendered by such person while carrying
 out such person's responsibilities under this title.
 `(4) Accept from any source, with respect to any travel performed by such
 person in the course of carrying out such person's responsibilities under
 this title, any payment or per diem for such travel, other than as provided
 for in section 4111 of title 5.
 `(5) Request or permit any individual or organization to pay, on such
 person's behalf for insurance insuring such person against malpractice
 claims arising in the course of carrying out such person's responsibilities
 under this title or for such person's dues or similar fees for membership
 in medical or dental societies or related professional associations, except
 where such payments constitute a part of such person's remuneration for the
 performance of professional responsibilities permitted under this section,
 other than those carried out under this title.
 `(6) Perform, in the course of carrying out such person's responsibilities
 under this title, professional services for the purpose of generating money
 for any fund or account which is maintained by an affiliated institution
 for the benefit of such institution, or for such person's personal benefit,
 or both.
 `(c) In the case of any fund or account described in subsection (b)(6)
 that was established before September 1, 1973--
 `(1) the affiliated institution shall submit semiannually an accounting
 to the Secretary and to the Comptroller General of the United States with
 respect to such fund or account and shall maintain such fund or account
 subject to full public disclosure and audit by the Secretary and the
 Comptroller General for a period of three years or for such longer period
 as the Secretary shall prescribe, and
 `(2) no person in a position specified in paragraph (1)(B) may receive any
 cash from amounts deposited in such fund or account derived from services
 performed before that date.
 `(d) As used in this section:
 `(1) The term `affiliated institution' means a medical school or other
 institution of higher learning with which the Secretary has a contract or
 agreement as referred to in section 7313 of this title for the training or
 education of health personnel.
 `(2) The term `remuneration' means the receipt of any amount of monetary
 benefit from any non-Department source in payment for carrying out any
 professional responsibilities.'.
SEC. 203. ADVERSE PERSONNEL ACTIONS.
 (a) REFORM OF DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURES FOR SECTION 7401(1) EMPLOYEES- Chapter
 74, as added by section 102 and amended by section 202, is further amended
 by adding at the end the following:
`SUBCHAPTER V--DISCIPLINARY AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
`Sec. 7461. Adverse actions: section 7401(1) employees
 `(a) Whenever the Chief Medical Director (or an official designated by the
 Chief Medical Director) brings charges based on conduct or performance
 against a section 7401(1) employee and as a result of those charges an
 adverse personnel action is taken against the employee, the employee shall
 have the right to appeal the action.
 `(b)(1) If the case involves or includes a question of professional conduct
 or competence in which a major adverse action was taken, such an appeal shall
 be made to a Disciplinary Appeals Board under section 7462 of this title.
 `(2) In any other case, such an appeal shall be made--
 `(A) through Department grievance procedures under section 7463 of this title,
 in any case that involves or includes a question of professional conduct or
 competence in which a major adverse action was not taken or in any case of
 an employee who is not covered by a collective bargaining agreement under
 chapter 71 of title 5; or
 `(B) through grievance procedures provided through collective bargaining
 under chapter 71 of title 5 or through Department grievance procedures under
 section 7463 of this title, as the employee elects, in the case of an employee
 covered by a collective bargaining agreement under chapter 71 of title 5 that
 does not involve or include a question of professional conduct or competence.
 `(c) For purposes of this subchapter--
 `(1) Section 7401(1) employees are employees of the Department employed
 on a full-time basis under a permanent appointment in a position listed in
 section 7401(1) of this title (other than interns and residents appointed
 pursuant to section 7406 of this title).
 `(2) A major adverse action is an adverse action which includes any of
 the following:
 `(A) Suspension.
 `(B) Transfer.
 `(C) Reduction in grade.
 `(D) Reduction in basic pay.
 `(E) Discharge.
 `(3) A question of professional conduct or competence is a question involving
 any of the following:
 `(A) Direct patient care.
 `(B) Clinical competence.
 `(d) An issue of whether a matter or question concerns, or arises out of,
 professional conduct or competence is not itself subject to any grievance
 procedure provided by law, regulation, or collective bargaining and may
 not be reviewed by any other agency.
 `(e) Whenever the Secretary proposes to prescribe regulations under this
 subchapter, the Secretary shall publish the proposed regulations in the
 Federal Register for notice-and-comment not less than 30 days before the
 day on which they take effect.
`Sec. 7462. Major adverse actions involving professional conduct or competence
 `(a)(1) Disciplinary Appeals Boards appointed under section 7464 of this
 title shall have exclusive jurisdiction to review any case--
 `(A) which arises out of (or which includes) a question of professional
 conduct or competence of a section 7401(1) employee; and
 `(B) in which a major adverse action was taken.
 `(2) The board shall include in its record of decision in any mixed case a
 statement of the board's exclusive jurisdiction under this subsection and
 the basis for such exclusive jurisdiction.
 `(3) For purposes of paragraph (2), a mixed case is a case that includes both
 a major adverse action arising out of a question of professional conduct
 or competence and an adverse action which is not a major adverse action or
 which does not arise out of a question of professional conduct or competence.
 `(b)(1) In any case in which charges are brought against a section 7401(1)
 employee which arises out of, or includes, a question of professional
 conduct or competence which could result in a major adverse action, the
 employee is entitled to the following:
 `(A) At least 30 days advance written notice from the Chief Medical Director
 or other charging official specifically stating the basis for each charge,
 the adverse actions that could be taken if the charges are sustained, and
 a statement of any specific law, regulation, policy, procedure, practice,
 or other specific instruction that has been violated with respect to each
 charge, except that the requirement for notification in advance may be waived
 if there is reasonable cause to believe that the employee has committed a
 crime for which the employee may be imprisoned.
 `(B) A reasonable time, but not less than seven days, to present an answer
 orally and in writing to the Chief Medical Director or other deciding
 official, who shall be an official higher in rank than the charging official,
 and to submit affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of
 the answer.
 `(2) In any case described in paragraph (1), the employee is entitled to
 be represented by an attorney or other representative of the employee's
 choice at all stages of the case.
 `(3)(A) If a proposed adverse action covered by this section is not withdrawn,
 the deciding official shall render a decision in writing within 21 days of
 receipt by the deciding official of the employee's answer. The decision
 shall include a statement of the specific reasons for the decision with
 respect to each charge. If a major adverse action is imposed, the decision
 shall state whether any of the charges sustained arose out of a question of
 professional conduct or competence. If any of the charges are sustained,
 the notice of the decision to the employee shall include notice of the
 employee's rights of appeal.
 `(B) Notwithstanding the 21-day period specified in subparagraph (A), a
 proposed adverse action may be held in abeyance if the employee requests,
 and the deciding official agrees, that the employee shall seek counseling or
 treatment for a condition covered under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Any
 such abeyance of a proposed action may not extend for more than one year.
 `(4)(A) The Secretary may require that any answer and submission under
 paragraph (1)(B) be submitted so as to be received within 30 days of the
 date of the written notice of the charges, except that the Secretary shall
 allow the granting of extensions for good cause shown.
 `(B) The Secretary shall require that any appeal to a Disciplinary Appeals
 Board from a decision to impose a major adverse action shall be received
 within 30 days after the date of service of the written decision on the
 employee.
 `(c)(1) When a Disciplinary Appeals Board convenes to consider an appeal
 in a case under this section, the board, before proceeding to consider the
 merits of the appeal, shall determine whether the case is properly before it.
 `(2) Upon hearing such an appeal, the board shall, with respect to each
 charge appealed to the board, sustain the charge, dismiss the charge, or
 sustain the charge in part and dismiss the charge in part. If the deciding
 official is sustained (in whole or in part) with respect to any such charge,
 the board shall--
 `(A) approve the action as imposed;
 `(B) approve the action with modification, reduction, or exception; or
 `(C) reverse the action.
 `(3) A board shall afford an employee appealing an adverse action under
 this section an opportunity for an oral hearing. If such a hearing is held,
 the board shall provide the employee with a transcript of the hearing.
 `(4) The board shall render a decision in any case within 45 days of
 completion of the hearing, if there is a hearing, and in any event no later
 than 120 days after the appeal commenced.
 `(d)(1) After resolving any question as to whether a matter involves
 professional conduct or competence, the Secretary shall cause to be executed
 the decision of the Disciplinary Appeals Board in a timely manner and
 in any event in not more than 90 days after the decision of the Board is
 received by the Secretary. Pursuant to the board's decision, the Secretary
 may order reinstatement, award back pay, and provide such other remedies
 as the board found appropriate relating directly to the proposed action,
 including expungement of records relating to the action.
 `(2) If the Secretary finds a decision of the board to be clearly contrary
 to the evidence or unlawful, the Secretary may--
 `(A) reverse the decision of the board, or
 `(B) vacate the decision of the board and remand the matter to the Board
 for further consideration.
 `(3) If the Secretary finds the decision of the board (while not clearly
 contrary to the evidence or unlawful) to be not justified by the nature of
 the charges, the Secretary may mitigate the adverse action imposed.
 `(4) The Secretary's execution of a board's decision shall be the final
 administrative action in the case.
 `(e) The Secretary may designate an employee of the Department to represent
 management in any case before a Disciplinary Appeals Board.
 `(f)(1) A section 7401(1) employee adversely affected by a final order or
 decision of a Disciplinary Appeals Board (as reviewed by the Secretary)
 may obtain judicial review of the order or decision.
 `(2) In any case in which judicial review is sought under this subsection,
 the court shall review the record and hold unlawful and set aside any agency
 action, finding, or conclusion found to be--
 `(A) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in
 accordance with law;
 `(B) obtained without procedures required by law, rule, or regulation having
 been followed; or
 `(C) unsupported by substantial evidence.
`Sec. 7463. Other adverse actions
 `(a) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation procedures for the
 consideration of grievances of section 7401(1) employees arising from
 adverse personnel actions in which each action taken either--
 `(1) is not a major adverse action; or
 `(2) does not arise out of a question of professional conduct or competence.
Disciplinary Appeals Boards shall not have jurisdiction to review such
matters, other than as part of a mixed case (as defined in section 7462(a)(3)
of this title).
 `(b) In the case of an employee who is a member of a collective bargaining
 unit under chapter 71 of title 5, the employee may seek review of an
 adverse action described in subsection (a) either under the grievance
 procedures provided through regulations prescribed under subsection (a)
 or through grievance procedures determined through collective bargaining,
 but not under both. The employee shall elect which grievance procedure to
 follow. Any such election may not be revoked.
 `(c)(1) In any case in which charges are brought against a section 7401(1)
 employee which could result in a major adverse action and which do not
 involve professional conduct or competence, the employee is entitled to
 the same notice and opportunity to answer with respect to those charges as
 provided in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 7462(b)(1) of this title.
 `(2) In any other case in which charges are brought against a section 7401(1)
 employee, the employee is entitled to--
 `(A) an advance written notice stating the specific reason for the proposed
 action, and
 `(B) a reasonable time to answer orally and in writing and to furnish
 affidavits and other documentary evidence in support of the answer.
 `(d) Grievance procedures prescribed under subsection (a) shall include
 the following:
 `(1) A right to formal review by an impartial examiner within the Department
 of Veterans Affairs, who, in the case of an adverse action arising from a
 question of professional conduct or competence, shall be selected from the
 panel designated under section 7464 of this title.
 `(2) A right to a prompt report of the findings and recommendations by the
 impartial examiner.
 `(3) A right to a prompt review of the examiner's findings and recommendations
 by an official of a higher level than the official who decided upon
 the action. That official may accept, modify, or reject the examiner's
 recommendations.
 `(e) In any review of an adverse action under the grievance procedures
 prescribed under subsection (a), the employee is entitled to be represented
 by an attorney or other representative of the employee's choice at all
 stages of the case.
`Sec. 7464. Disciplinary Appeals Boards
 `(a) The Secretary shall from time to time appoint boards to hear appeals of
 major adverse actions described in section 7462 of this title. Such boards
 shall be known as Disciplinary Appeals Boards. Each board shall consist of
 three employees of the Department, each of whom shall be of the same grade
 as, or be senior in grade to, the employee who is appealing an adverse
 action. At least two of the members of each board shall be employed in
 the same category of position as the employee who is appealing the adverse
 action. Members of a board shall be appointed from individuals on the panel
 established under subsection (d).
 `(b)(1) In appointing a board for any case, the Secretary shall designate
 one of the members to be chairman and one of the members to be secretary
 of the board, each of whom shall have authority to administer oaths.
 `(2) Appointment of boards, and the proceedings of such boards, shall be
 carried out under regulations prescribed by the Secretary. A verbatim record
 shall be maintained of board hearings.
 `(c)(1) Notwithstanding sections 5701 and 7332 of this title, the chairman
 of a board, upon request of an employee whose case is under consideration by
 the board (or a representative of that employee) may, in connection with the
 considerations of the board, review records or information covered by those
 sections and may authorize the disclosure of such records or information
 to that employee (or representative) to the extent the board considers
 appropriate for purposes of the proceedings of the board in that case.
 `(2) In any such case the board chairman may direct that measures be taken to
 protect the personal privacy of individuals whose records are involved. Any
 person who uses or discloses a record or information covered by this
 subsection for any purpose other than in connection with the proceedings
 of the board shall be fined not more than $5,000 in the case of a first
 offense and not more than $20,000 in the case of a subsequent offense.
 `(d)(1) The Secretary shall provide for the periodic designation of employees
 of the Department who are qualified to serve on Disciplinary Appeals
 Boards. Those employees shall constitute the panel from which board members
 in a case are appointed. The Secretary shall provide (without charge) a list
 of the names of employees on the panel to any person requesting such list.
 `(2) The Secretary shall announce periodically, and not less often than
 annually, that the roster of employees on the panel is available as described
 in paragraph (1). Such announcement shall be made at Department medical
 facilities and through publication in the Federal Register. Notice of a name
 being on the list must be provided at least 30 days before the individual
 selected may serve on a Board or as a grievance examiner. Employees,
 employee organizations, and other interested parties may submit comments
 to the Secretary concerning the suitability for service on the panel of
 any employee whose name is on the list.
 `(3) The Secretary shall provide training in the functions and duties of
 Disciplinary Appeals Boards and grievance procedures under section 7463 of
 this title for employees selected to be on the panel.'.
 (b) CLERICAL AMENDMENTS- The table of sections at the beginning of chapter
 74, as added by section 102, is amended--
 (1) by inserting before the item relating to subchapter III the following:
`SUBCHAPTER II--COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AND PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION
`7421. Personnel administration: in general.
`7422. Collective bargaining.
`7423. Personnel administration: full-time employees.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
`SUBCHAPTER V--DISCIPLINARY AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES
`7461. Adverse actions: section 7401(1) employees.
`7462. Major adverse actions involving professional conduct or competence.
`7463. Other adverse actions.
`7464. Disciplinary Appeals Boards.'.
SEC. 204. DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.
 The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall prescribe regulations under subchapter
 V of chapter 74 of title 38, United States Code (as added by section 203),
 not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. Such
 regulations shall be published in the Federal Register for notice-and-comment
 not less than 30 days before the day on which they take effect.
SEC. 205. PRESERVATION OF EXISTING COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING ARRANGEMENTS AND
PENDING ACTIONS.
 (a) EXISTING COLLECTIVE-BARGAINING ARRANGEMENTS- Any determination under
 chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code, of a collective bargaining unit
 within the Veterans Health Administration of the Department of Veterans
 Affairs, and any recognition under that chapter of an employee labor
 organization as the exclusive bargaining representative for employees in a
 collective bargaining unit of the Department of Veterans Affairs, that is
 in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act shall not be affected by
 the amendments made by this Act and shall continue in effect in accordance
 with the terms of such determination or regulation.
 (b) PENDING CASES- With respect to cases pending on the date of the enactment
 of this Act, or those cases which are brought before the establishment
 of either an administrative grievance procedure pursuant to section 7463
 of title 38, United States Code (as added by the amendments made by this
 title), or a negotiated grievance procedure established under a collective
 bargaining agreement, such cases shall proceed in the same manner as they
 would have if this Act had not been enacted.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 301. AMENDMENTS TO PROVISIONS ENACTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS NURSE PAY ACT OF 1990.
 (a) SAVINGS PROVISION- Physician assistants and expanded-function dental
 auxiliaries shall continue to be paid after August 14, 1990, according to
 the Nurse Schedule in section 4107(b) of title 38, United States Code, as in
 effect on August 14, 1990, until the effective date of a determination by the
 Secretary to convert those occupations to `covered positions' and pay them
 pursuant to section 7451 of such title, as redesignated by section 401(c).
 (b) CHIEF MEDICAL DIRECTOR AUTHORITY- Section 4141(d) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting `or the Chief Medical Director, with
 respect to covered Regional and Central Office employees in that grade,'
 before `determines';
 (2) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D) and by inserting
 `or Chief Medical Director' in that subparagraph after `facility'; and
 (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
 `(C) The Chief Medical Director shall prescribe regulations providing for
 the adjustment of the rates of basic pay for Regional and Central Office
 employees in covered positions in order to assure that those rates are
 sufficient and competitive.'; and
 (3) in paragraph (4), by inserting `, or the Chief Medical Director with
 respect to Regional and Central Office employees,' in the first sentence
 after `facility' the first place it appears.
 (c) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN TITLE 5 EMPLOYEES- Section 4141(a)(3) is amended
 by inserting `or chapter 53 of title 5' before the period at the end.
 (d) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 4142(a)(3) is amended by striking out
 `appointed' and inserting in lieu thereof `paid'.
 (e) EFFECTIVE DATE- Section 104(a)(2) of Public Law 101-366 is amended by
 inserting `the first day of the first pay period beginning after' before
 `April 1, 1991'.
SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON FURNISHING NONSERVICE-CONNECTED
HEALTH CARE.
 Section 19011(e)(1) of the Veterans' Health Care Amendments of 1986 (38
 U.S.C. 610 note) is amended by striking out `each of' and all that follows
 through `1989' and inserting in lieu thereof `each fiscal year through
 fiscal year 1991'.
SEC. 303. ADMINISTRATIVE REORGANIZATION AUTHORITY.
 Section 210(b)(2) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking out the second and third sentences
 and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `No action to carry out such
 reorganization may be taken after the submission of such report until the
 end of a 90-day period of continuous session of Congress following the date
 of the submission of the report. For purposes of the preceding sentence,
 continuity of a session of Congress is broken only by an adjournment sine
 die, and there shall be excluded from the computation of such 90-day period
 any day during which either House of Congress is not in session during an
 adjournment of more than three days to a day certain.';
 (2) by striking out subparagraph (B) and inserting in lieu thereof the
 following:
 `(B) An administrative reorganization described in this subparagraph is an
 administrative reorganization of a covered field office or facility that
 involves a reduction during any fiscal year in the number of full-time
 equivalent employees with permanent duty stations at such office or facility--
 `(i) by 15 percent or more; or
 `(ii) by a percent which, when added to the percent reduction made in the
 number of such employees with permanent duty stations at such office or
 facility during the preceding fiscal year, is 25 percent or more.';
 (3) in subparagraph (C)--
 (A) by inserting `administrative' before `reorganization' the first place
 it appears;
 (B) by striking out `the reorganization' after `applies to' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `an administrative reorganization';
 (C) by striking out `more than 25 but less than 100 employees' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `30 or more employees'; and
 (D) by striking out `in such unit--' and all that follows and inserting in
 lieu thereof `in such unit by 50 percent or more.'; and
 (4) in subparagraph (D)--
 (A) by adding at the end of clause (i) the following new sentence: `Such term
 does not include a consolidation or redistribution of functions at a covered
 field office or facility, or between components of the Veterans Benefits
 Administration and the Veterans Health Administration at a Department medical
 and regional office center, if after the consolidation or redistribution
 the same number of full-time equivalent employees continues to perform the
 affected functions at that field office, facility, or center.';
 (B) by striking out clause (ii); and
 (C) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as clauses (ii) and (iii),
 respectively.
SEC. 304. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO LIMITATION ON PAYMENT OF PENSION TO VETERANS
IN NURSING HOMES.
 (a) EXCLUSION OF STATE HOMES- Section 3203(f)(1)(B) is amended by inserting
 before the period at the end the following: `, other than a facility that
 is a State home with respect to which the Secretary makes per diem payments
 for nursing home care pursuant to section 641(a) of this title'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply as
 if included in the amendment made by section 8003(a) of the Omnibus Budget
 Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-508; 104 Stat. 1388-874).
SEC. 305. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
 (a) SECTION 3202- Section 3202(d) is amended by striking out `an inmate'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `a patient'.
 (b) SUBCHAPTER HEADING- (1) The heading of subchapter II of chapter 85 is
 amended by striking out `INMATE' and inserting in lieu thereof `PATIENT'.
 (2) The item relating to such subchapter heading in the table of sections
 at the beginning of such chapter is amended by striking out `INMATE' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `PATIENT'.
TITLE IV--REORGANIZATION AND REDESIGNATION OF PARTS IV, V, AND VI OF TITLE 38
SEC. 401. FURTHER REVISION AND REORGANIZATION OF CHAPTER 73.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 73 is amended as follows:
 (1) The heading of such chapter is amended to read as follows:
`CHAPTER 73--VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION--ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS'.
 (2) Such chapter is amended--
 (A) by striking out subchapter V; and
 (B) by redesignating subchapter VI as subchapter IV.
 (3) Such chapter is further amended by striking out the table of sections
 and subchapters I and II and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`subchapter i--organization
`Sec.
`7301. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: in general.
`7302. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: health-care personnel
education and training programs.
`7303. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: research programs.
`7304. Regulations.
`7305. Divisions of Veterans Health Administration.
`7306. Office of the Chief Medical Director.
`SUBCHAPTER II--GENERAL AUTHORITY AND ADMINISTRATION
`7311. Quality assurance.
`7312. Special medical advisory group.
`7313. Advisory committees: affiliated institutions.
`7314. Geriatric research, education, and clinical centers.
`7315. Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee.
`7316. Malpractice and negligence suits: defense by United States.
`7317. Hazardous research projects: indemnification of contractors.
`SUBCHAPTER III--PATIENT RIGHTS
`7331. Informed consent.
`7332. Confidentiality of certain medical records.
`7333. Nondiscrimination against alcohol and drug abusers and persons infected
with human immunodeficiency virus.
`7334. Regulations.
`SUBCHAPTER IV--RESEARCH CORPORATIONS
`7361. Authority to establish; status.
`7362. Purpose of corporations.
`7363. Board of directors; executive director.
`7364. General powers.
`7365. Applicable State law.
`7366. Accountability and oversight.
`7367. Report to Congress.
`7368. Expiration of authority.
`SUBCHAPTER I--ORGANIZATION
`Sec. 7301. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: in general
 `(a) There is in the Department of Veterans Affairs a Veterans Health
 Administration. The Chief Medical Director is the head of the Administration.
 `(b) The primary function of the Administration is to provide a complete
 medical and hospital service for the medical care and treatment of veterans,
 as provided in this title and in regulations prescribed by the Secretary
 pursuant to this title.
`Sec. 7302. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: health-care personnel
education and training programs
 `(a) In order to carry out more effectively the primary function of the
 Veterans Health Administration and in order to assist in providing an
 adequate supply of health personnel to the Nation, the Secretary--
 `(1) to the extent feasible without interfering with the medical care and
 treatment of veterans, shall develop and carry out a program of education
 and training of health personnel; and
 `(2) shall carry out a major program for the recruitment, training, and
 employment of veterans with medical military occupation specialties as--
 `(A) physician assistants;
 `(B) expanded-function dental auxiliaries; and
 `(C) other medical technicians.
 `(b) In carrying out subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall include in the
 program of education and training under that subsection the developing and
 evaluating of new health careers, interdisciplinary approaches, and career
 advancement opportunities.
 `(c) In carrying out subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall include in
 the program of recruitment, training, and employment under that subsection
 measures to advise all qualified veterans with military occupation specialties
 referred to in that subsection, and all members of the armed forces about to
 be discharged or released from active duty who have such military occupation
 specialties, of employment opportunities with the Administration.
 `(d) The Secretary shall carry out subsection (a) in cooperation with the
 following institutions and organizations:
 `(1) Schools of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, nursing, pharmacy, optometry,
 podiatry, public health, or allied health professions.
 `(2) Other institutions of higher learning.
 `(3) Medical centers.
 `(4) Academic health centers.
 `(5) Hospitals.
 `(6) Such other public or nonprofit agencies, institutions, or organizations
 as the Secretary considers appropriate.
`Sec. 7303. Functions of Veterans Health Administration: research programs
 `(a)(1) In order to carry out more effectively the primary function of the
 Administration and in order to contribute to the Nation's knowledge about
 disease and disability, the Secretary shall carry out a program of medical
 research in connection with the provision of medical care and treatment
 to veterans.
 `(2) Such program of medical research shall include biomedical research,
 mental illness research, prosthetic and other rehabilitative research,
 and health-care-services research.
 `(3) Such program shall stress--
 `(A) research into spinal-cord injuries and other diseases that lead to
 paralysis of the lower extremities; and
 `(B) research into injuries and illnesses particularly related to service.
 `(4) In carrying out such research program, the Secretary shall act in
 cooperation with the entities described in section 7302(d) of this title.
 `(b) Prosthetic research shall include research and testing in the field of
 prosthetic, orthotic, and orthopedic appliances and sensory devices. In order
 that the unique investigative material and research data in the possession of
 the Government may result in the improvement of such appliances and devices
 for all disabled persons, the Secretary (through the Chief Medical Director)
 shall make the results of such research available to any person, and shall
 consult and cooperate with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and
 the Secretary of Education, in connection with programs carried out under
 section 204(b)(2) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 762(b)(2))
 (relating to the establishment and support of Rehabilitation Engineering
 Research Centers).
 `(c) Funds appropriated to carry out this section shall remain available
 until expended.
`Sec. 7304. Regulations
 `(a) Unless specifically otherwise provided, the Chief Medical Director
 shall prescribe all regulations necessary to the administration of the
 Veterans Health Administration, including regulations relating to--
 `(1) travel, transportation of household goods and effects, and deductions
 from pay for quarters and subsistence; and
 `(2) the custody, use, and preservation of the records, papers, and property
 of the Administration.
 `(b) Regulations prescribed by the Chief Medical Director are subject to
 the approval of the Secretary.
`Sec. 7305. Divisions of Veterans Health Administration
 `The Veterans Health Administration shall include the following:
 `(1) The Office of the Chief Medical Director.
 `(2) A Medical Service.
 `(3) A Dental Service.
 `(4) A Podiatric Service.
 `(5) An Optometric Service.
 `(6) A Nursing Service.
 `(7) Such other professional and auxiliary services as the Secretary may
 find to be necessary to carry out the functions of the Administration.
`Sec. 7306. Office of the Chief Medical Director
 `(a) The Office of the Chief Medical Director shall consist of the following:
 `(1) The Deputy Chief Medical Director, who shall be the principal assistant
 of the Chief Medical Director and who shall be a qualified doctor of medicine.
 `(2) The Associate Deputy Chief Medical Director, who shall be an assistant
 to the Chief Medical Director and the Deputy Chief Medical Director and
 who shall be a qualified doctor of medicine.
 `(3) Not to exceed eight Assistant Chief Medical Directors.
 `(4) Such Medical Directors as may be appointed to suit the needs of the
 Department, who shall be either a qualified doctor of medicine or a qualified
 doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine.
 `(5) A Director of Nursing Service, who shall be a qualified registered
 nurse and who shall be responsible to the Chief Medical Director for the
 operation of the Nursing Service.
 `(6) A Director of Pharmacy Service, a Director of Dietetic Service,
 a Director of Podiatric Service, and a Director of Optometric Service,
 who shall be responsible to the Chief Medical Director for the operation
 of their respective Services.
 `(7) Such other personnel as may be authorized by this chapter.
 `(b) Of the Assistant Chief Medical Directors appointed under subsection
 (a)(3)--
 `(1) not more than two may be persons qualified in the administration of
 health services who are not doctors of medicine, dental surgery, or dental
 medicines;
 `(2) one shall be a qualified doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine
 who shall be directly responsible to the Chief Medical Director for the
 operation of the Dental Service; and
 `(3) one shall be a qualified physician trained in, or having suitable
 extensive experience in, geriatrics who shall be responsible to the Chief
 Medical Director for evaluating all research, educational, and clinical
 health-care programs carried out in the Administration in the field of
 geriatrics and who shall serve as the principal advisor to the Chief Medical
 Director with respect to such programs.
 `(c) Appointments under subsection (a) shall be made by the Secretary. In
 the case of appointments under paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of that
 subsection, such appointments shall be made upon the recommendation of the
 Chief Medical Director.
 `(d) Except as provided in subsection (e)--
 `(1) any appointment under this section shall be for a period of four years,
 with reappointment permissible for successive like periods,
 `(2) any such appointment or reappointment may be extended by the Secretary
 for a period not in excess of three years, and
 `(3) any person so appointed or reappointed or whose appointment or
 reappointment is extended shall be subject to removal by the Secretary
 for cause.
 `(e)(1) The Secretary may designate a member of the Chaplain Service of the
 Department as Director, Chaplain Service, for a period of two years, subject
 to removal by the Secretary for cause. Redesignation under this subsection may
 be made for successive like periods or for any period not exceeding two years.
 `(2) A person designated as Director, Chaplain Service, shall at the end
 of such person's period of service as Director revert to the position,
 grade, and status which such person held immediately before being designated
 Director, Chaplain Service, and all service as Director, Chaplain Service,
 shall be creditable as service in the former position.
`SUBCHAPTER II--GENERAL AUTHORITY AND ADMINISTRATION
`Sec. 7311. Quality assurance
 `(a) The Secretary shall--
 `(1) establish and conduct a comprehensive program to monitor and evaluate
 the quality of health care furnished by the Veterans Health Administration
 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the `quality-assurance program');
 and
 `(2) delineate the responsibilities of the Chief Medical Director with
 respect to the quality-assurance program, including the duties prescribed
 in this section.
 `(b)(1) As part of the quality-assurance program, the Chief Medical Director
 shall periodically evaluate--
 `(A) whether there are significant deviations in mortality and morbidity
 rates for surgical procedures performed by the Administration from prevailing
 national mortality and morbidity standards for similar procedures; and
 `(B) if there are such deviations, whether they indicate deficiencies in
 the quality of health care provided by the Administration.
 `(2) The evaluation under paragraph (1)(A) shall be made using the information
 compiled under subsection (c)(1). The evaluation under paragraph (1)(B) shall
 be made taking into account the factors described in subsection (c)(2)(B).
 `(3) If, based upon an evaluation under paragraph (1)(A), the Chief Medical
 Director determines that there is a deviation referred to in that paragraph,
 the Chief Medical Director shall explain the deviation in the report
 submitted under subsection (f).
 `(c)(1) The Chief Medical Director shall--
 `(A) determine the prevailing national mortality and morbidity standards
 for each type of surgical procedure performed by the Administration; and
 `(B) collect data and other information on mortality and morbidity rates
 in the Administration for each type of surgical procedure performed by the
 Administration and (with respect to each such procedure) compile the data
 and other information so collected--
 `(i) for each medical facility of the Department, in the case of cardiac
 surgery, heart transplant, and renal transplant programs; and
 `(ii) in the aggregate, for each other type of surgical procedure.
 `(2) The Chief Medical Director shall--
 `(A) compare the mortality and morbidity rates compiled under paragraph
 (1)(B) with the national mortality and morbidity standards determined under
 paragraph (1)(A); and
 `(B) analyze any deviation between such rates and such standards in terms
 of the following:
 `(i) The characteristics of the respective patient populations.
 `(ii) The level of risk for the procedure involved, based on--
 `(I) patient age;
 `(II) the type and severity of the disease;
 `(III) the effect of any complicating diseases; and
 `(IV) the degree of difficulty of the procedure.
 `(iii) Any other factor that the Chief Medical Director considers appropriate.
 `(d) Based on the information compiled and the comparisons, analyses,
 evaluations, and explanations made under subsections (b) and (c), the
 Chief Medical Director, in the report under subsection (f), shall make
 such recommendations with respect to quality assurance as the Chief Medical
 Director considers appropriate.
 `(e)(1) The Secretary shall allocate sufficient resources (including
 sufficient personnel with the necessary skills and qualifications) to enable
 the Administration to carry out its responsibilities under this section.
 `(2) The Inspector General of the Department shall allocate sufficient
 resources (including sufficient personnel with the necessary skills
 and qualifications) to enable the Inspector General to monitor the
 quality-assurance program.
 `(f)(1) Not later than February 1, 1991, the Chief Medical Director shall
 submit to the Secretary a report on the experience through the end of the
 preceding fiscal year under the quality-assurance program carried out under
 this section.
 `(2) Such report shall include--
 `(A) the data and other information compiled and the comparisons, analyses,
 and evaluations made under subsections (b) and (c) with respect to the
 period covered by the report; and
 `(B) recommendations under subsection (d).
 `(g)(1) Not later than 60 days after receiving such report, the Secretary
 shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and
 House of Representatives a copy of the report, together with any comment
 concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
 `(2) A report submitted under paragraph (1) shall not be considered to be
 a record or document as described in section 5705(a) of this title.
`Sec. 7312. Special medical advisory group
 `(a) The Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to be known as the
 special medical advisory group. The advisory group shall advise the Secretary,
 through the Chief Medical Director, and the Chief Medical Director directly,
 relative to the care and treatment of disabled veterans and other matters
 pertinent to the Administration.
 `(b) Members of the special medical advisory group shall be appointed by
 the Secretary upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director. The
 special medical advisory group shall be composed of--
 `(1) members of the medical, dental, podiatric, optometric, and allied
 scientific professions;
 `(2) other individuals considered by the Chief Medical Director to have
 experience pertinent to the mission of the Administration; and
 `(3) a disabled veteran.
 `(c) The special medical advisory group shall meet on a regular basis
 as prescribed by the Secretary. The number, terms of service, pay, and
 allowances of members of the advisory group shall be prescribed in accordance
 with existing law and regulations.
 `(d) Not later than February 1 of each year, the special medical advisory
 group shall submit to the Secretary and the Congress a report on the advisory
 groups  activities during the preceding fiscal year.
`Sec. 7313. Advisory committees: affiliated institutions
 `(a) In each case where the Secretary has a contract or agreement with
 any school, institution of higher learning, medical center, hospital,
 or other public or nonprofit agency, institution, or organization for the
 training or education of health personnel, the Secretary shall establish an
 advisory committee to advise the Secretary and the Chief Medical Director
 with respect to policy matters arising in connection with, and the operation
 of, the program with respect to which it was appointed. Such a committee
 may be a dean's committee, a medical advisory committee, or the like.
 `(b) Any such advisory committee may be established on an institution-wide,
 multi-disciplinary basis or on a regional basis whenever establishment on
 such a basis is found to be feasible.
 `(c) Members of each such advisory committee shall be appointed by
 the Secretary and shall include personnel of the Department (including
 appropriate representation from the full-time staff) and of the entity
 with which the Secretary has entered into the contract or agreement. The
 number of members, and terms of members, of each advisory committee shall
 be prescribed by the Secretary.
 `(d) The Secretary shall require that the Chief of the Nursing Service
 (or the designee of the Chief) at each Department health-care facility
 be included in the membership of each policymaking committee at that
 facility. Such committees include: (1) committees relating to matters
 such as budget, education, position management, clinical executive issues,
 planning, and resource allocation, and (2) the dean's committee or other
 advisory committee established under subsection (a).
`Sec. 7314. Geriatric research, education, and clinical centers
 `(a) The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director
 and pursuant to the provisions of this section, shall designate not more
 than 25 Department health-care facilities as the locations for centers of
 geriatric research, education, and clinical activities and (subject to the
 appropriation of sufficient funds for such purpose) shall establish and
 operate such centers at such locations in accordance with this section.
 `(b) In designating locations for centers under subsection (a), the Secretary,
 upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director, shall--
 `(1) designate each Department health-care facility that as of August 26,
 1980, was operating a geriatric research, education, and clinical center
 unless (on the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director) the Secretary
 determines that such facility does not meet the requirements of subsection
 (c) or has not demonstrated effectiveness in carrying out the established
 purposes of such center or the purposes of title III of the Veterans'
 Administration Health-Care Amendments of 1980 (Public Law 96-330; 94
 Stat. 1048) or the potential to carry out such purposes effectively in the
 reasonably foreseeable future; and
 `(2) assure appropriate geographic distribution of such facilities.
 `(c) The Secretary may not designate a health-care facility as a location for
 a center under subsection (a) unless the Secretary (upon the recommendation
 of the Chief Medical Director) determines that the facility has (or may
 reasonably be anticipated to develop) each of the following:
 `(1) An arrangement with an accredited medical school which provides education
 and training in geriatrics and with which such facility is affiliated
 under which residents receive education and training in geriatrics through
 regular rotation through such center and through nursing home, extended
 care, or domiciliary units of such facility so as to provide such residents
 with training in the diagnosis and treatment of chronic diseases of older
 individuals, including cardiopulmonary conditions, senile dementia, and
 neurological disorders.
 `(2) An arrangement under which nursing or allied health personnel receive
 training and education in geriatrics through regular rotation through
 nursing home, extended care, or domiciliary units of such facility.
 `(3) The ability to attract the participation of scientists who are capable
 of ingenuity and creativity in health-care research efforts.
 `(4) A policymaking advisory committee composed of appropriate health-care
 and research representatives of the facility and of the affiliated school or
 schools to advise the directors of such facility and such center on policy
 matters pertaining to the activities of such center during the period of
 the operation of such center.
 `(5) The capability to conduct effectively evaluations of the activities
 of such center.
 `(d) Before providing funds for the operation of any such center at a
 health-care facility other than a health-care facility designated under
 subsection (b)(1), the Secretary shall assure that the center at each
 facility designated under such subsection is receiving adequate funding
 to enable such center to function effectively in the areas of geriatric
 research, education, and clinical activities.
 `(e) There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 for the support of the research and education activities of the centers
 established pursuant to subsection (a). The Chief Medical Director shall
 allocate to such centers from other funds appropriated generally for the
 Department medical care account and medical and prosthetics research
 account, as appropriate, such amounts as the Chief Medical Director
 determines appropriate.
 `(f) Activities of clinical and scientific investigation at each center
 established under subsection (a) shall be eligible to compete for the
 award of funding from funds appropriated for the Department medical and
 prosthetics research account and shall receive priority in the award of
 funding from such account insofar as funds are awarded to projects for
 research in geriatrics and gerontology.
`Sec. 7315. Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory Committee
 `(a) The Secretary shall establish in the Administration a Geriatrics and
 Gerontology Advisory Committee (hereinafter in this section referred to as
 the `Committee'). The membership of the Committee shall be appointed by the
 Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director, and shall
 include individuals who are not employees of the Federal Government and who
 have demonstrated interest and expertise in research, education, and clinical
 activities related to aging and at least one representative of a national
 veterans service organization. The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the
 Chief Medical Director, shall invite representatives of other appropriate
 departments and agencies of the United States to participate in the activities
 of the Committee and shall provide the Committee with such staff and other
 support as may be necessary for the Committee to carry out effectively its
 functions under this section.
 `(b) The Committee shall--
 `(1) advise the Chief Medical Director on all matters pertaining to geriatrics
 and gerontology;
 `(2) assess, through an evaluation process (including a site visit conducted
 not later than three years after the date of the establishment of each new
 center and not later than two years after the date of the last evaluation of
 those centers in operation on August 26, 1980), the ability of each center
 established under section 7314 of this title to achieve its established
 purposes and the purposes of title III of the Veterans' Administration
 Health-Care Amendments of 1980 (Public Law 96-330; 94 Stat. 1048);
 `(3) assess the capability of the Department to provide high quality
 geriatric services, extended services, and other health-care services to
 eligible older veterans, taking into consideration the likely demand for
 such services from such veterans;
 `(4) assess the current and projected needs of eligible older veterans for
 geriatric services, extended-care services, and other health-care services
 from the Department and its activities and plans designed to meet such
 needs; and
 `(5) perform such additional functions as the Secretary or Chief Medical
 Director may direct.
 `(c)(1) The Committee shall submit to the Secretary, through the Chief
 Medical Director, such reports as the Committee considers appropriate with
 respect to its findings and conclusions under subsection (b). Such reports
 shall include the following:
 `(A) Descriptions of the operations of the centers of geriatric research,
 education, and clinical activities established pursuant to section 7314 of
 this title.
 `(B) Assessments of the quality of the operations of such centers.
 `(C) An assessment of the extent to which the Department, through the
 operation of such centers and other health-care facilities and programs,
 is meeting the needs of eligible older veterans for geriatric services,
 extended-care services, and other health-care services.
 `(D) Assessments of and recommendations for correcting any deficiencies in
 the operations of such centers.
 `(E) Recommendations for such other geriatric services, extended-care
 services, and other health-care services as may be needed to meet the needs
 of older veterans.
 `(2) Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report submitted under
 paragraph (1), the Secretary shall transmit the report, together with
 the Secretary's comments and recommendations thereon, to the appropriate
 committees of the Congress.
`Sec. 7316. Malpractice and negligence suits: defense by United States
 `(a)(1) The remedy--
 `(A) against the United States provided by sections 1346(b) and 2672 of
 title 28, or
 `(B) through proceedings for compensation or other benefits from the United
 States as provided by any other law, where the availability of such benefits
 precludes a remedy under section 1346(b) or 2672 of title 28,
for damages for personal injury, including death, allegedly arising from
malpractice or negligence of a medical care employee of the Administration in
furnishing medical care or treatment while in the exercise of that employee's
duties in or for the Administration shall be exclusive of any other civil
action or proceeding by reason of the same subject matter against the medical
care employee (or employee's estate) whose act or omission gave rise to
such claim.
 `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `medical care employee of
 the Administration' means a physician, dentist, podiatrist, optometrist,
 nurse, physician assistant, expanded-function dental auxiliary, pharmacist,
 or paramedical (such as medical and dental technicians, nursing assistants,
 and therapists), or other supporting personnel.
 `(b) The Attorney General shall defend any civil action or proceeding
 brought in any court against any person referred to in subsection (a)
 (or such person's estate) for any such damage or injury. Any such person
 against whom such civil action or proceeding is brought shall deliver within
 such time after date of service or knowledge of service as determined by
 the Attorney General, all process served upon such person or an attested
 true copy thereof to such person's immediate superior or to whomever was
 designated by the Secretary to receive such papers and such person shall
 promptly furnish copies of the pleading and process therein to the United
 States attorney for the district embracing the place wherein the proceeding
 is brought, to the Attorney General, and to the Secretary.
 `(c) Upon a certification by the Attorney General that the defendant was
 acting in the scope of such person's employment in or for the Administration
 at the time of the incident out of which the suit arose, any such civil action
 or proceeding commenced in a State court shall be removed without bond at any
 time before trial by the Attorney General to the district court of the United
 States of the district and division embracing the place wherein it is pending
 and the proceeding deemed a tort action brought against the United States
 under the provisions of title 28 and all references thereto. After removal
 the United States shall have available all defenses to which it would have
 been entitled if the action had originally been commenced against the United
 States. Should a United States district court determine on a hearing on a
 motion to remand held before a trial on the merits that the employee whose
 act or omission gave rise to the suit was not acting within the scope of such
 person's office or employment, the case shall be remanded to the State court.
 `(d) The Attorney General may compromise or settle any claim asserted in
 such civil action or proceeding in the manner provided in section 2677 of
 title 28, and with the same effect.
 `(e) The Secretary may, to the extent the Secretary considers appropriate,
 hold harmless or provide liability insurance for any person to whom the
 immunity provisions of this section apply (as described in subsection (a)),
 for damage for personal injury or death, or for property damage, negligently
 caused by such person while furnishing medical care or treatment (including
 the conduct of clinical studies or investigations) in the exercise of such
 person's duties in or for the Administration, if such person is assigned
 to a foreign country, detailed to State or political division thereof, or
 is acting under any other circumstances which would preclude the remedies
 of an injured third person against the United States, provided by sections
 1346(b) and 2672 of title 28, for such damage or injury.
 `(f) The exception provided in section 2680(h) of title 28 shall not apply
 to any claim arising out of a negligent or wrongful act or omission of any
 person described in subsection (a) in furnishing medical care or treatment
 (including medical care or treatment furnished in the course of a clinical
 study or investigation) while in the exercise of such person's duties in
 or for the Administration.
`Sec. 7317. Hazardous research projects: indemnification of contractors
 `(a)(1) With the approval of the Secretary, any contract or research
 authorized by section 7303 of this title, the performance of which involves
 a risk of an unusually hazardous nature, may provide that the United States
 will indemnify the contractor as provided in paragraph (2), but only to
 the extent that the liability, loss, or damage concerned arises out of the
 direct performance of the contract and to the extent not covered by the
 financial protection required under subsection (e).
 `(2) Indemnity under paragraph (1) is indemnity against either or both of
 the following:
 `(A) Liability (including reasonable expenses of litigation or settlement)
 to third persons, except liability under State or Federal workers' injury
 compensation laws to employees of the contractor employed at the site of
 and in connection with the contract for which indemnification is granted,
 for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property, from a risk
 that the contract defines as unusually hazardous.
 `(B) Loss of or damage to property of the contractor from a risk that the
 contract defines as unusually hazardous.
 `(b) A contract that provides for indemnification in accordance with
 subsection (a) must also provide for--
 `(1) notice to the United States of any claim or suit against the contractor
 for death, bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property; and
 `(2) control of or assistance in the defense by the United States, at its
 election, of any such suit or claim for which indemnification is provided
 hereunder.
 `(c) A payment may not be made under subsection (a) unless the Secretary
 certifies that the amount is just and reasonable.
 `(d) Upon approval by the Secretary, payments under subsection (a) may be
 made from--
 `(1) funds obligated for the performance of the contract concerned;
 `(2) funds available for research or development or both, and not otherwise
 obligated; or
 `(3) funds appropriated for those payments.
 `(e) Each contractor which is a party to an indemnification agreement
 under subsection (a) shall have and maintain financial protection of such
 type and in such amounts as the Secretary shall require to cover liability
 to third persons and loss of or damage to the contractor's property. The
 amount of financial protection required shall be the maximum amount of
 insurance available from private sources, except that the Secretary may
 establish a lesser amount, taking into consideration the cost and terms of
 private insurance. Such financial protection may include private insurance,
 private contractual indemnities, self-insurance, other proof of financial
 responsibility, or a combination of such measures.
 `(f) In administering the provisions of this section, the Secretary may
 use the facilities and services of private insurance organizations and
 may contract to pay a reasonable compensation therefor. Any contract made
 under the provisions of this section may be made without regard to the
 provisions of section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5), upon a
 showing by the Secretary that advertising is not reasonably practicable,
 and advance payments may be made under any such contract.
 `(g) The authority to indemnify contractors under this section does not
 create any rights in third persons which would not otherwise exist by law.
 `(h) Funds appropriated to carry out this section shall remain available
 until expended.
 `(i) In this section, the term `contractor' includes subcontractors of any
 tier under a contract containing an indemnification provision pursuant to
 subsection (a).'.
 (4) Such chapter is further amended--
 (A) by redesignating sections 4131, 4132, 4133, and 4134 as sections 7331,
 7332, 7333, and 7334, respectively; and
 (B) by redesignating sections 4161, 4162, 4163, 4164, 4165, 4166, 4167,
 and 4168 as sections 7361, 7362, 7363, 7364, 7365, 7366, 7367, and 7368,
 respectively.
 (b) ENACTMENT OF OTHER PROVISIONS OF OLD CHAPTER 73 IN NEW CHAPTER 74- Chapter
 74, as added by section 102 and amended by section 202, is amended as follows:
 (1) The table of sections (as added by section 102 and amended by section
 203(b)) is amended--
 (A) by inserting at the beginning the following:
`SUBCHAPTER I--APPOINTMENTS
`Sec.
`7401. Appointments in Veterans Health Administration.
`7402. Qualifications of appointees.
`7403. Period of appointments; promotions.
`7404. Grades and pay scales.
`7405. Temporary full-time appointments, part-time appointments, and
without-compensation appointments.
`7406. Residencies and internships.
`7407. Administrative provisions for section 7405 and 7406 appointments.
`7408. Appointment of additional employees.
`7409. Contracts for scarce medical specialist services.';
 (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 7423 (as added by
 section 203(b)(1)) the following:
`7424. Travel expenses of certain employees.
`7425. Employees: laws not applicable.
`7426. Retirement rights.';
 (C) by inserting after the item relating to section 7440 (as added by
 section 102) the following:
`SUBCHAPTER IV--PAY FOR NURSES AND OTHER HEALTH-CARE PERSONNEL
`7451. Nurses and other health-care personnel: competitive pay.
`7452. Nurses and other health-care personnel: administration of pay.
`7453. Nurses: additional pay.
`7454. Physician assistants and other health care professionals: additional
pay.
`7455. Increases in rates of basic pay.
`7456. Nurses: special rules for weekend duty.
`7457. On-call pay.
`7458. Recruitment and retention bonus pay.'; and
 (D) by adding at the end the following:
`SUBCHAPTER VI--REGIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION CENTERS
`7471. Designation of Regional Medical Education Centers.
`7472. Supervision and staffing of Centers.
`7473. Personnel eligible for training.
`7474. Consultation.'.
 (2) Such chapter is further amended by inserting before subchapter II
 (as added by section 202) the following:
`SUBCHAPTER I--APPOINTMENTS
`Sec. 7401. Appointments in Veterans Health Administration
 `There may be appointed by the Secretary such personnel as the Secretary
 may find necessary for the medical care of veterans (in addition to those
 in the Office of the Chief Medical Director appointed under section 7306
 of this title), as follows:
 `(1) Physicians, dentists, podiatrists, optometrists, registered nurses,
 physician assistants, and expanded-function dental auxiliaries.
 `(2) Psychologists (other than those described in paragraph (3)), dietitians,
 and other scientific and professional personnel, such as microbiologists,
 chemists, biostatisticians, and medical and dental technologists.
 `(3) Clinical or counseling psychologists who hold diplomas as diplomates in
 psychology from an accrediting authority approved by the Secretary, certified
 or registered respiratory therapists, licensed physical therapists, licensed
 practical or vocational nurses, pharmacists, and occupational therapists.
`Sec. 7402. Qualifications of appointees
 `(a) To be eligible for appointment to the positions in the Administration
 covered by subsection (b), a person must have the applicable qualifications
 set forth in that subsection.
 `(b)(1) PHYSICIAN- To be eligible to be appointed to a physician position,
 a person must--
 `(A) hold the degree of doctor of medicine or of doctor of osteopathy from
 a college or university approved by the Secretary,
 `(B) have completed an internship satisfactory to the Secretary, and
 `(C) be licensed to practice medicine, surgery, or osteopathy in a State.
 `(2) DENTIST- To be eligible to be appointed to a dentist position, a
 person must--
 `(A) hold the degree of doctor of dental surgery or dental medicine from
 a college or university approved by the Secretary, and
 `(B) be licensed to practice dentistry in a State.
 `(3) NURSE- To be eligible to be appointed to a nurse position, a person
 must--
 `(A) have successfully completed a full course of nursing in a recognized
 school of nursing, approved by the Secretary, and
 `(B) be registered as a graduate nurse in a State.
 `(4) DIRECTOR OF A HOSPITAL, DOMICILIARY, CENTER, OR OUTPATIENT CLINIC- To
 be eligible to be appointed to a director position, a person must have such
 business and administrative experience and qualifications as the Secretary
 shall prescribe.
 `(5) PODIATRIST- To be eligible to be appointed to a podiatrist position,
 a person must--
 `(A) hold the degree of doctor of podiatric medicine, or its equivalent,
 from a school of podiatric medicine approved by the Secretary, and
 `(B) be licensed to practice podiatry in a State.
 `(6) OPTOMETRIST- To be eligible to be appointed to an optometrist position,
 a person must--
 `(A) hold the degree of doctor of optometry, or its equivalent, from a
 school of optometry approved by the Secretary, and
 `(B) be licensed to practice optometry in a State.
 `(7) PHARMACIST- To be eligible to be appointed to a pharmacist position,
 a person must--
 `(A) hold the degree of bachelor of science in pharmacy, or its equivalent,
 from a school of pharmacy, approved by the Secretary, and
 `(B) be registered as a pharmacist in a State.
 `(8) PSYCHOLOGIST- To be eligible to be appointed to a psychologist position,
 a person must--
 `(A) hold a doctoral degree in psychology from a college or university
 approved by the Secretary,
 `(B) have completed study for such degree in a specialty area of psychology
 and an internship which are satisfactory to the Secretary, and
 `(C) be licensed or certified as a psychologist in a State, except that
 the Secretary may waive the requirement of licensure or certification for
 an individual psychologist for a period not to exceed two years on the
 condition that that psychologist provide patient care only under the direct
 supervision of a psychologist who is so licensed or certified.
 `(9) OTHER HEALTH-CARE POSITIONS- To be appointed as a physician assistant,
 expanded-function dental auxiliary, certified or registered respiratory
 therapist, licensed physical therapist, licensed practical or vocational
 nurse, occupational therapist, dietitian, microbiologist, chemist,
 biostatistician, medical technologist, dental technologist, or other
 position, a person must have such medical, dental, scientific, or technical
 qualifications as the Secretary shall prescribe.
 `(c) Except as provided in section 7407(a) of this title, a person may not
 be appointed in the Administration to a position listed in section 7401(1)
 of this title unless the person is a citizen of the United States.
 `(d) A person may not be appointed under section 7401(1) of this title to
 serve in the Administration in any direct patient-care capacity unless the
 Chief Medical Director determines that the person possesses such basic
 proficiency in spoken and written English as will permit such degree
 of communication with patients and other health-care personnel as will
 enable the person to carry out the person's health-care responsibilities
 satisfactorily. Any determination by the Chief Medical Director under this
 subsection shall be in accordance with regulations which the Secretary
 shall prescribe.
 `(e) A person may not serve as Chief of Staff of a Department health-care
 facility if the person is not serving on a full-time basis.
`Sec. 7403. Period of appointments; promotions
 `(a)(1) Appointments under this chapter of health-care professionals to
 whom this section applies may be made only after qualifications have been
 satisfactorily established in accordance with regulations prescribed by
 the Secretary, without regard to civil-service requirements.
 `(2) This section applies to the following persons appointed under this
 chapter:
 `(A) Physicians.
 `(B) Dentists.
 `(C) Podiatrists.
 `(D) Optometrists.
 `(E) Nurses.
 `(F) Physician assistants.
 `(G) Expanded-function dental auxiliaries.
 `(b)(1) Appointments described in subsection (a) shall be for a probationary
 period of two years.
 `(2) The record of each person serving under such an appointment in the
 Medical, Dental, and Nursing Services shall be reviewed from time to time
 by a board, appointed in accordance with regulations of the Secretary. If
 such a board finds that such person is not fully qualified and satisfactory,
 such person shall be separated from the service.
 `(c) Promotions of persons to whom this section applies shall be made only
 after examination given in accordance with regulations prescribed by the
 Secretary. Advancement within grade may be made in increments of the minimum
 rate of basic pay of the grade in accordance with regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary.
 `(d) In determining eligibility for reinstatement in the Federal civil
 service of persons appointed to positions in the Administration under
 this chapter who at the time of appointment have a civil-service status,
 and whose employment in the Administration is terminated, the period of
 service performed in the Administration shall be included in computing the
 period of service under applicable civil-service rules and regulations.
 `(e) In accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary, the grade and
 annual rate of basic pay of a person to whom this section applies whose level
 of assignment is changed from a level of assignment in which the grade level
 is based on both the nature of the assignment and personal qualifications may
 be adjusted to the grade and annual rate of basic pay otherwise appropriate.
 `(f)(1) Upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director, the Secretary
 may--
 `(A) use the authority in subsection (a) to establish the qualifications
 for and (subject to paragraph (2)) to appoint individuals to positions
 listed in section 7401(3) of this title; and
 `(B) use the authority provided in subsection (c) for the promotion and
 advancement of Department employees serving in such positions.
 `(2) In using such authority to appoint individuals to such positions, the
 Secretary shall apply the principles of preference for the hiring of veterans
 and other persons established in subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5.
 `(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title or other law, all
 matters relating to adverse actions, disciplinary actions, and grievance
 procedures involving individuals appointed to such positions (including
 similar actions and procedures involving an employee in a probationary
 status) shall be resolved under the provisions of title 5 as though such
 individuals had been appointed under that title.
 `(g)(1) The Secretary may appoint in the competitive civil service without
 regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other
 than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title) an individual who--
 `(A) has a recognized degree or certificate from an accredited institution
 in a health-care profession or occupation; and
 `(B) has successfully completed a clinical education program affiliated
 with the Department.
 `(2) In using the authority provided by this subsection, the Secretary
 shall apply the principles of preference for the hiring of veterans and
 other persons established in subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5.
`Sec. 7404. Grades and pay scales
 `(a) The annual rates or ranges of rates of basic pay for positions provided
 in section 7306 of this title shall be prescribed from time to time by
 Executive order as authorized by chapter 53 of title 5 or as otherwise
 authorized by law.
 `(b)(1) The grades for positions provided for in paragraph (1) of section
 7401 of this title shall be as follows. The annual ranges of rates of basic
 pay for those grades shall be prescribed from time to time by Executive order
 as authorized by chapter 53 of title 5 or as otherwise authorized by law:
`PHYSICIAN AND DENTIST SCHEDULE
 `Director grade.
 `Executive grade.
 `Chief grade.
 `Senior grade.
 `Intermediate grade.
 `Full grade.
 `Associate grade.
`nurse schedule
 `Director grade.
 `Senior grade.
 `Intermediate grade.
 `Entry grade.
`CLINICAL PODIATRIST AND OPTOMETRIST SCHEDULE
 `Chief grade.
 `Senior grade.
 `Intermediate grade.
 `Full grade.
 `Associate grade.
 `(2) A person may not hold the director grade in the Physician and
 Dentist Schedule unless the person is serving as a director of a hospital,
 domiciliary, center, or outpatient clinic (independent). A person may not
 hold the executive grade in that Schedule unless the person holds the
 position of chief of staff at a hospital, center, or outpatient clinic
 (independent), or comparable position.
 `(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7425(a) of this title, a
 person appointed under section 7306 of this title who is not eligible for
 special pay under subchapter III shall be deemed to be a career appointee
 for the purposes of sections 4507 and 5384 of title 5.
 `(d) Except as provided under subchapter III and in section 7457 of this
 title, pay may not be paid at a rate in excess of the rate of basic pay
 for an appropriate level authorized by section 5315 or 5316 of title 5 for
 positions in the Executive Schedule, as follows:
 `(1) Level IV for the Deputy Chief Medical Director.
 `(2) Level V for all other positions for which such basic pay is paid under
 this section.
`Sec. 7405. Temporary full-time appointments, part-time appointments, and
without-compensation appointments
 `(a) The Secretary, upon the recommendation of the Chief Medical Director,
 may employ, without regard to civil service or classification laws, rules,
 or regulations, personnel as follows:
 `(1) On a temporary full-time basis, part-time basis, or without compensation
 basis, persons in the following positions:
 `(A) Positions listed in section 7401(1) of this title.
 `(B) Certified or registered respiratory therapists, licensed physical
 therapists, licensed practical or vocational nurses, pharmacists, and
 occupational therapists.
 `(C) Dietitians, social workers, and librarians.
 `(D) Other professional, clerical, technical, and unskilled personnel
 (including interns, residents, trainees, and students in medical support
 programs).
 `(2) On a fee basis, persons in the following positions:
 `(A) Positions listed in section 7401(1) of this title.
 `(B) Certified or registered respiratory therapists, licensed physical
 therapists, licensed practical or vocational nurses, pharmacists, and
 occupational therapists.
 `(C) Other professional and technical personnel.
 `(b) Personnel employed under subsection (a)--
 `(1) shall be in addition to personnel described in section 7306, paragraphs
 (1) and (3) of section 7401, and section 7408 of this title; and
 `(2) shall be paid such rates of pay as the Secretary may prescribe.
 `(c)(1) Temporary full-time appointments under this section of persons in
 positions listed in section 7401(1) of this title may be for a period in
 excess of 90 days only if the Chief Medical Director finds that circumstances
 render it impracticable to obtain the necessary services through appointments
 under that section.
 `(2) Temporary full-time appointments of persons who have successfully
 completed a full course of nursing in a recognized school of nursing,
 approved by the Secretary, or who have successfully completed a full course
 of training for any category of personnel described in paragraph (3) of
 section 7401 of this title in a recognized education or training institution
 approved by the Secretary, and who are pending registration or licensure in
 a State, or certification by a national board recognized by the Secretary,
 shall not exceed two years.
 `(3) Temporary full-time appointments of other personnel may not be for a
 period in excess of one year except as authorized in subsection (f).
 `(d) A part-time appointment may not be for a period of more than one year,
 except for appointments of persons specified in subsection (a)(1)(A) and
 interns, residents, and other trainees in medical support programs and
 except as authorized in subsection (f).
 `(e) A student who has a temporary appointment under this section and who
 is pursuing a full course of nursing in a recognized school of nursing
 approved by the Secretary, or who is pursuing a full course of training for
 any category of personnel described in paragraph (3) of section 7401 of
 this title in a recognized education or training institution approved by
 the Secretary, may be reappointed for a period not to exceed the duration
 of the student's academic program.
 `(f) During any period during which the Secretary is exercising the authority
 provided in subsections (a) and (f)(1) of section 7403 of this title in
 connection with the appointment, under paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this
 title, of personnel in a category of personnel described in such paragraph--
 `(1) the Secretary may make temporary full-time appointments of personnel in
 such category for periods exceeding 90 days if the Chief Medical Director
 finds that circumstances render it impractical to obtain the necessary
 services through appointments under paragraph (3) of section 7401 of this
 title; and
 `(2) part-time appointments of personnel in such category may be for periods
 of more than one year.
`Sec. 7406. Residencies and internships
 `(a)(1) The Secretary may establish residencies and internships. The
 Secretary may appoint qualified persons to such positions without regard
 to civil service or classification laws, rules, or regulations.
 `(2) For the purposes of this section:
 `(A) The term `internship' includes the equivalency of an internship as
 determined in accordance with regulations which the Secretary shall prescribe.
 `(B) The term `intern' means a person serving an internship.
 `(b) The Secretary may prescribe the conditions of employment of persons
 appointed under this section, including necessary training, and the
 customary amount and terms of pay for such positions during the period
 of such employment and training. The amount and terms of such pay may be
 established retroactively based on changes in such customary amount and terms.
 `(c)(1) In order to carry out more efficiently the provisions of subsection
 (a)(1), the Secretary may contract with one or more hospitals, medical
 schools, or medical installations having hospital facilities and participating
 with the Department in the training of interns or residents to provide, by
 the designation of one such institution to serve as a central administrative
 agency, for the central administration--
 `(A) of stipend payments;
 `(B) provision of fringe benefits; and
 `(C) maintenance of records for such interns and residents.
 `(2) The Secretary may pay to such designated agency, without regard to
 any other law or regulation governing the expenditure of Government moneys
 either in advance or in arrears, an amount to cover the cost for the period
 such intern or resident serves in a Department hospital of--
 `(A) stipends fixed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1);
 `(B) hospitalization, medical care, and life insurance and any other employee
 benefits as are agreed upon by the participating institutions for the period
 that such intern or resident serves in a Department hospital;
 `(C) tax on employers pursuant to chapter 21 of the Internal Revenue Code
 of 1986, where applicable; and
 `(D) an amount to cover a pro rata share of the cost of expense of such
 central administrative agency.
 `(3)(A) Any amounts paid by the Secretary to such central administrative
 agency to cover the cost of hospitalization, medical care, or life insurance
 or other employee benefits shall be in lieu of any benefits of like nature to
 which such intern or resident may be entitled under the provisions of title
 5, and the acceptance of stipends and employee benefits from the designated
 central administrative agency shall constitute a waiver by the recipient of
 any claim such recipient might have to any payment of stipends or employee
 benefits to which such recipient may be entitled under this title or title 5.
 `(B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), any period of service of any such
 intern or resident in a Department hospital shall be deemed creditable
 service for the purposes of section 8332 of title 5.
 `(4) The agreement with such central administrative agency may further
 provide that the designated central administrative agency shall--
 `(A) make all appropriate deductions from the stipend of each intern and
 resident for local, State, and Federal taxes;
 `(B) maintain all records pertinent to such deductions and make proper
 deposits of such deductions; and
 `(C) maintain all records pertinent to the leave accrued by such intern and
 resident for the period during which such recipient serves in a participating
 hospital, including a Department hospital.
 `(5) Leave described in paragraph (4)(C) may be pooled, and the intern
 or resident may be afforded leave by the hospital in which such person is
 serving at the time the leave is to be used to the extent of such person's
 total accumulated leave, whether or not earned at the hospital in which
 such person is serving at the time the leave is to be afforded.
`Sec. 7407. Administrative provisions for section 7405 and 7406 appointments
 `(a) When the Chief Medical Director determines that it is not possible
 to recruit qualified citizens for the necessary services, appointments
 under sections 7405 and 7406 of this title may be made without regard to
 the citizenship requirements of section 7402(c) of this title or of any
 other law prohibiting the employment of, or payment of compensation to,
 a person who is not a citizen of the United States.
 `(b)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Chief Medical Director may waive for
 the purpose of the appointment of an individual under section 7405 or 7406
 of this title the requirements set forth in section 7402(b) of this title--
 `(A) that a physician, dentist, psychologist, optometrist, registered nurse,
 practical or vocational nurse, or physical therapist be licensed or certified,
 as appropriate;
 `(B) that the licensure or certification of such an individual be in a
 State; and
 `(C) that a psychologist have completed an internship.
 `(2) The waivers authorized in paragraph (1) may be granted--
 `(A) in the case of clauses (A) and (C) of such paragraph, if the individual
 (i) will be employed to conduct research or serve in an academic position,
 and (ii) will have no responsibility for furnishing direct patient care
 services; and
 `(B) in the case of clause (B) of such paragraph, if the individual will
 be employed to serve in a country other than the United States and the
 individual's licensure or registration is in the country in which the
 individual is to serve.
 `(c) The program of training prescribed by the Secretary in order to qualify a
 person for the position of full-time physician assistant or expanded-function
 dental auxiliary shall be considered a full-time institutional program for
 purposes of chapter 34 of this title. The Secretary may consider training
 for such a position to be on a less than full-time basis for purposes of
 such chapter when the combined classroom (and other formal instruction)
 portion of the program and the on-the-job training portion of the program
 total less than 30 hours per week.
 `(d) A person may not be appointed under section 7405 or 7406 of this title
 to an occupational category described in section 7401(1) of this title or
 in section 7406 of this title unless the person meets the requirements
 established in section 7402(d) of this title and regulations prescribed
 under that section.
 `(e) In accordance with the provisions of section 7425(b) of this title,
 the provisions of chapter 34 of title 5 pertaining to part-time career
 employment shall not apply to part-time appointments under sections 7405
 and 7406 of this title.
`Sec. 7408. Appointment of additional employees
 `(a) There shall be appointed by the Secretary under civil-service laws,
 rules, and regulations, such additional employees, other than those provided
 in section 7306 and paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 7401 of this title
 and those specified in sections 7405 and 7406 of this title, as may be
 necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
 `(b) The Secretary, after considering an individual's existing pay,
 higher or unique qualifications, or the special needs of the Department,
 may appoint the individual to a position in the Administration providing
 direct patient-care services or services incident to direct patient-services
 at a rate of pay above the minimum rate of the appropriate grade.
`Sec. 7409. Contracts for scarce medical specialist services
 `(a) The Secretary may enter into contracts with institutions and persons
 described in subsection (b) to provide scarce medical specialist services at
 Department facilities. Such services may include the services of physicians,
 dentists, podiatrists, optometrists, nurses, physician assistants,
 expanded-function dental auxiliaries, technicians, and other medical
 support personnel.
 `(b) Institutions and persons with whom the Secretary may enter into
 contracts under subsection (a) are the following:
 `(1) Schools and colleges of medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, podiatry,
 optometry, and nursing.
 `(2) Clinics.
 `(3) Any other group or individual capable of furnishing such scarce medical
 specialist services.'.
 (3) Subchapter II of such chapter (as added by section 202) is amended--
 (A) by adding at the end of section 7423 the following new subsection:
 `(e)(1) The Secretary shall establish a leave transfer program for the
 benefit of health-care professionals in positions listed in section 7401(1)
 of this title. The Secretary may also establish a leave bank program for
 the benefit of such health-care professionals.
 `(2) To the maximum extent feasible--
 `(A) the leave transfer program shall provide the same or similar requirements
 and conditions as are provided for the program established by the Director
 of the Office of Personnel Management under subchapter III of chapter 63
 of title 5; and
 `(B) any leave bank program established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be
 consistent with the requirements and conditions provided for agency leave
 bank programs in subchapter IV of such chapter.
 `(3) Participation by a health-care professional in the leave transfer
 program established pursuant to paragraph (1), and in any leave bank program
 established pursuant to such paragraph, shall be voluntary. The Secretary
 may not require any health-care professional to participate in such a program.
 `(4)(A) The Secretary and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
 may enter into an agreement that permits health-care professionals referred
 to in paragraph (1) to participate in the leave transfer program established
 by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management under subchapter
 III of chapter 63 of title 5 or in any leave bank program established for
 other employees of the Department pursuant to subchapter IV of chapter 63
 of title 5, or both.
 `(B) Participation of such health-care professionals in a leave transfer
 program or a leave bank program pursuant to an agreement entered into under
 subparagraph (A) shall be subject to such requirements and conditions as
 may be prescribed in such agreement.
 `(5) The Secretary is not required to establish a leave transfer program
 for any personnel permitted to participate in a leave transfer program
 pursuant to an agreement referred to in paragraph (4).'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new sections:
`Sec. 7424. Travel expenses of certain employees
 `(a) The Secretary may pay the expenses (other than membership fees) of
 persons described in sections 7306 and 7401(1) of this title (including
 persons in positions described in section 7401(1) of this title who are
 appointed on a temporary full-time basis or a part-time basis under section
 7405 of this title) who are detailed by the Chief Medical Director to attend
 meetings of associations for the promotion of medical and related science.
 `(b)(1) The Secretary may prescribe regulations establishing conditions
 under which officers and employees of the Administration who are nationally
 recognized principal investigators in medical research may be permitted to
 accept payment, in cash or in kind, from non-Federal agencies, organizations,
 and individuals for travel and such reasonable subsistence expenses as are
 approved by the Secretary pursuant to such regulations--
 `(A) in connection with their attendance at meetings or in performing advisory
 services concerned with the functions or activities of the Department; or
 `(B) in connection with acceptance of significant awards or with activity
 related thereto concerned with functions or activities of the Department.
 `(2) Any such payment may be retained by such officers and employees to
 cover the cost of such expenses or shall be deposited to the credit of
 the appropriation from which the cost of such expenses is paid, as may be
 provided in such regulations.
`Sec. 7425. Employees: laws not applicable
 `(a) Physicians, dentists, nurses, and other health-care professionals
 employed by the Administration and appointed under section 7306, 7401(1),
 7405, or 7406 of this chapter are not subject to the following provisions
 of law:
 `(1) Section 413 of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978.
 `(2) Subchapter II of chapter 31 of title 5.
 `(3) Subchapter VIII of chapter 33 of title 5.
 `(4) Subchapter V of chapter 35 of title 5.
 `(5) Subchapter II of chapter 43 of title 5.
 `(6) Section 4507 of title 5.
 `(7) Subchapter VIII of chapter 53 of title 5.
 `(8) Subchapter V of chapter 75 of title 5.
 `(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no provision of title 5 or
 any other law pertaining to the civil service system which is inconsistent
 with any provision of section 7306 of this title or this chapter shall be
 considered to supersede, override, or otherwise modify such provision of
 that section or this chapter except to the extent that such provision of
 title 5 or of such other law specifically provides, by specific reference to
 a provision of this chapter, or such provision to be superseded, overridden,
 or otherwise modified.
`Sec. 7426. Retirement rights
 `(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), persons appointed to the
 Administration shall be subject to the provisions of and entitled to benefits
 under subchapter III of chapter 83 of title 5 or subchapter II of chapter
 84 of title 5, whichever is applicable.
 `(b)(1) In computing the annuity under subchapter III of chapter 83, or
 subchapter II of chapter 84, of title 5 of an individual who retires under
 such subchapter (other than under section 8337 or 8451 of such title) after
 December 31, 1981, and who served at any time on a less-than-full-time basis
 in a position in the Administration to which such individual was appointed
 under subchapter I--
 `(A) for the purpose of determining such individual's average pay, as
 defined by section 8331(4) or 8401(3) of title 5, whichever is applicable,
 the annual rate of basic pay for full-time service shall be deemed to be
 such individual's rate of basic pay; and
 `(B) the amount of such individual's annuity as computed under section
 8339 or 8415 of title 5 (before application of any reduction required by
 subsection (i) of section 8339) shall be multiplied by the fraction equal to
 the ratio that that individual's total full-time equivalent service bears
 to that individual's creditable service as determined under section 8332
 or 8411 of title 5, whichever is applicable.
 `(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(B), an individual's full-time
 equivalent service is the individual's creditable service as determined under
 section 8332 or 8411 of title 5, whichever is applicable, except that any
 period of service of such individual served on a less-than-full-time basis
 shall be prorated based on the fraction such service bears to full-time
 service. For the purposes of the preceding sentence, full-time service
 shall be considered to be 80 hours of service per biweekly pay period.
 `(3) A survivor annuity computed under section 8341, or subchapter IV of
 chapter 84, of title 5 based on the service of an individual described in
 paragraph (1) shall be computed based upon such individual's annuity as
 determined in accordance with such paragraph.
 `(c) The Secretary may authorize an exception to the restrictions in
 subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 5532 of title 5 if necessary to meet
 special or emergency employment needs which result from a severe shortage
 of well-qualified candidates in physician positions, and registered nurse
 positions, which otherwise cannot be readily met. The authority of the
 Secretary under the preceding sentence with respect to registered-nurse
 positions expires on September 30, 1992.'.
 (4) Chapter 74 is further amended by inserting after subchapter III (as
 added by section 102) the following:
`SUBCHAPTER IV--PAY FOR NURSES AND OTHER HEALTH-CARE PERSONNEL
`Sec. 7453. Nurses: additional pay
 `(a) In addition to the rate of basic pay provided for nurses, a nurse
 shall receive additional pay as provided by this section.
 `(b) A nurse performing service on a tour of duty, any part of which is
 within the period commencing at 6 postmeridian and ending at 6 antemeridian,
 shall receive additional pay for each hour of service on such tour at a rate
 equal to 10 percent of the nurse's hourly rate of basic pay if at least four
 hours of such tour fall between 6 postmeridian and 6 antemeridian. When less
 than four hours of such tour fall between 6 postmeridian and 6 antemeridian,
 the nurse shall be paid the differential for each hour of service performed
 between those hours.
 `(c) A nurse performing service on a tour of duty, any part of which is
 within the period commencing at midnight Friday and ending at midnight
 Sunday, shall receive additional pay for each hour of service on such tour
 at a rate equal to 25 percent of such nurse's hourly rate of basic pay.
 `(d) A nurse performing service on a holiday designated by Federal statute
 or Executive order shall receive for each hour of such service the nurse's
 hourly rate of basic pay, plus additional pay at a rate equal to such hourly
 rate of basic pay, for that holiday service, including overtime service. Any
 service required to be performed by a nurse on such a designated holiday
 shall be deemed to be a minimum of two hours in duration.
 `(e)(1) A nurse performing officially ordered or approved hours of service
 in excess of 40 hours in an administrative workweek, or in excess of eight
 hours in a day, shall receive overtime pay for each hour of such additional
 service. The overtime rates shall be one and one-half times such nurse's
 hourly rate of basic pay.
 `(2) For the purposes of this subsection, overtime must be of at least 15
 minutes duration in a day to be creditable for overtime pay.
 `(3) Compensatory time off in lieu of pay for service performed under the
 provisions of this subsection shall not be permitted, except as voluntarily
 requested in writing by the nurse in question.
 `(4) Any excess service performed under this subsection on a day when service
 was not scheduled for such nurse, or for which such nurse is required to
 return to the nurse's place of employment, shall be deemed to be a minimum
 of two hours in duration.
 `(5) For the purposes of this subsection, the period of a nurse's officially
 ordered or approved travel away from such nurse's duty station may not be
 considered to be hours of service unless--
 `(A) such travel occurs during such nurse's tour of duty; or
 `(B) such travel--
 `(i) involves the performance of services while traveling,
 `(ii) is incident to travel that involves the performance of services
 while traveling,
 `(iii) is carried out under arduous conditions as determined by the
 Secretary, or
 `(iv) results from an event which could not be scheduled or controlled
 administratively.
 `(f) For the purpose of computing the additional pay provided by subsections
 (b), (c), (d), or (e), a nurse's hourly rate of basic pay shall be derived
 by dividing such nurse's annual rate of basic pay by 2,080.
 `(g) When a nurse is entitled to two or more forms of additional pay under
 subsections (b), (c), (d), or (e) for the same period of service, the
 amounts of such additional pay shall be computed separately on the basis
 of such nurse's hourly rate of basic pay, except that no overtime pay as
 provided in subsection (e) shall be payable for overtime service performed
 on a holiday designated by Federal statute or Executive order in addition
 to pay received under subsection (d) for such service.
 `(h) A nurse who is officially scheduled to be on call outside such nurse's
 regular hours or on a holiday designated by Federal statute or Executive
 order shall be paid for each hour of such on-call duty, except for such time
 as such nurse may be called back to work, at a rate equal to 10 percent of
 the hourly rate for excess service as provided in subsection (e).
 `(i) Any additional pay paid pursuant to this section shall not be considered
 as basic pay for the purposes of the following provisions of title 5 (and
 any other provision of law relating to benefits based on basic pay):
 `(1) Subchapter VI of chapter 55.
 `(2) Section 5595.
 `(3) Chapters 81, 83, 84, and 87 of title 5.
 `(j)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law and subject to paragraph
 (2), the Secretary may increase the rates of additional pay authorized
 under subsections (b) through (h) if the Secretary determines that it is
 necessary to do so in order to obtain or retain the services of nurses.
 `(2) An increase under paragraph (1) in rates of additional pay--
 `(A) may be made at any specific Department health-care facility in order to
 provide nurses, or any category of nurses, at such facility additional pay
 in an amount competitive with, but not exceeding, the amount of the same
 type of pay that is paid to the same category of nurses at non-Federal
 health-care facilities in the same geographic area as such Department
 health-care facility (based upon a reasonably representative sampling of
 such non-Federal facilities); and
 `(B) may be made on a nationwide, local, or other geographic basis if the
 Secretary finds that such an increase is justified on the basis of a review
 of the need for such increase (based upon a reasonably representative sampling
 of non-Federal health-care facilities in the geographic area involved).
`Sec. 7454. Physician assistants and other health care professionals:
additional pay
 `(a) Physician assistants and expanded-function dental auxiliaries shall
 be entitled to additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in
 section 7453 of this title.
 `(b) When the Secretary determines it to be necessary in order to obtain
 or retain the services of certified or registered respiratory therapists,
 licensed physical therapists, licensed practical or vocational nurses,
 pharmacists, or occupational therapists, the Secretary may, on a nationwide,
 local, or other geographic basis, pay persons employed in such positions
 additional pay on the same basis as provided for nurses in section 7453 of
 this title.
 `(c) The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation standards for compensation
 and payment under this section.
`Sec. 7455. Increases in rates of basic pay
 `(a)(1) Subject to subsections (b), (c), and (d), when the Secretary
 determines it to be necessary in order to obtain or retain the services of
 persons described in paragraph (2), the Secretary may increase the minimum,
 intermediate, or maximum rates of basic pay authorized under applicable
 statutes and regulations. Any increase in such rates of basic pay--
 `(A) may be made on a nationwide basis, local basis, or other geographic
 basis; and
 `(B) may be made--
 `(i) for one or more of the grades listed in the schedules in subsection
 (b)(1) of section 7404 of this title;
 `(ii) for one or more of the health personnel fields within such grades; or
 `(iii) for one or more of the grades of the General Schedule under section
 5332 of title 5.
 `(2) Paragraph (1) applies to the following:
 `(A) Individuals employed in positions listed in paragraphs (1) and (3)
 of section 7401 of this title.
 `(B) Health-care personnel who--
 `(i) are employed in the Administration (other than administrative, clerical,
 and physical plant maintenance and protective services employees);
 `(ii) are paid under the General Schedule pursuant to section 5332 of title 5;
 `(iii) are determined by the Secretary to be providing either direct
 patient-care services or services incident to direct patient-care services;
 and
 `(iv) would not otherwise be available to provide medical care and treatment
 for veterans.
 `(C) Employees who are Department police officers providing services under
 section 218 of this title.
 `(b) Increases in rates of basic pay may be made under subsection (a)
 only in order--
 `(1) to provide pay in an amount competitive with, but not exceeding, the
 amount of the same type of pay paid to the same category of personnel at
 non-Federal facilities in the same labor market;
 `(2) to achieve adequate staffing at particular facilities; or
 `(3) to recruit personnel with specialized skills, especially those with
 skills which are especially difficult or demanding.
 `(c) The amount of any increase under subsection (a) in the maximum rate
 for any grade may not (except in the case of nurse anesthetists and licensed
 physical therapists) exceed the amount by which the maximum for such grade
 (under applicable provisions of law other than this subsection) exceeds
 the minimum for such grade (under applicable provisions of law other than
 this subsection), and the maximum rate as so increased may not exceed the
 rate paid for individuals serving as Assistant Chief Medical Director.
 `(d)(1) In the exercise of the authority provided in subsection (a) with
 respect to personnel described in subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2)
 of that subsection to increase the rates of basic pay for any category of
 personnel not appointed under subchapter I, the Secretary shall, not less
 than 45 days before the effective date of a proposed increase, notify the
 President of the Secretary's intention to provide such an increase.
 `(2) Such a proposed increase shall not take effect if, before the effective
 date of the proposed increase, the President disapproves such increase and
 provides the appropriate committees of the Congress with a written statement
 of the President's reasons for such disapproval.
 `(3) If, before that effective date, the President approves such increase,
 the Secretary may advance the effective date to any date not earlier than
 the date of the President's approval.
`Sec. 7456. Nurses: special rules for weekend duty
 `(a) Subject to subsection (b), if the Secretary determines it to be
 necessary in order to obtain or retain the services of nurses at any
 Department health-care facility, the Secretary may provide, in the case
 of nurses appointed under this chapter and employed at such facility,
 that such nurses who work two regularly scheduled 12-hour tours of duty
 within the period commencing at midnight Friday and ending at midnight the
 following Sunday shall be considered for all purposes (except computation
 of full-time equivalent employees for the purposes of determining compliance
 with personnel ceilings) to have worked a full 40-hour basic workweek.
 `(b)(1) Basic and additional pay for a nurse who is considered under
 subsection (a) to have worked a full 40-hour basic workweek shall be subject
 to paragraphs (2) and (3).
 `(2) The hourly rate of basic pay for such a nurse for service performed
 as part of a regularly scheduled 12-hour tour of duty within the period
 commencing at midnight Friday and ending at midnight the following Sunday
 shall be derived by dividing the nurse's annual rate of basic pay by 1,248.
 `(3)(A) Such a nurse who performs a period of service in excess of such
 nurse's regularly scheduled two 12-hour tours of duty is entitled to
 overtime pay under section 7453(e) of this title, or other applicable law,
 for officially ordered or approved service performed in excess of eight
 hours on a day other than a Saturday or Sunday or in excess of 24 hours
 within the period commencing at midnight Friday and ending at midnight the
 following Sunday.
 `(B) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), a nurse to whom this subsection
 is applicable is not entitled to additional pay under section 7453 of this
 title, or other applicable law, for any period included in a regularly
 scheduled 12-hour tour of duty.
 `(C) If the Secretary determines it to be further necessary in order to
 obtain or retain the services of nurses at a particular facility, a nurse
 to whom this paragraph is applicable who performs service in excess of such
 nurse's regularly scheduled two 12-hour tours of duty may be paid overtime
 pay under section 7453(e) of this title, or other applicable law, for all
 or part of the hours of officially ordered or approved service performed
 by such nurse in excess of 40 hours during an administrative workweek.
 `(c) A nurse described in subsection (b)(1) who is absent on approved sick
 leave or annual leave during a regularly scheduled 12-hour tour of duty
 shall be charged for such leave at a rate of five hours of leave for three
 hours of absence.
 `(d) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations for the implementation of
 this section.
`Sec. 7457. On-call pay
 `(a) The Secretary may pay an employee to whom this section applies pay at
 the rate provided in section 7453(h) of this title except for such time as
 the employee may be called back to work.
 `(b) This section applies to an employee who meets each of the following
 criteria:
 `(1) The employee is employed in a position listed in paragraph (3) of
 section 7401 of this title or meets the criteria specified in clauses (i),
 (ii), and (iii) of section 7455(a)(2)(B) of this title.
 `(2) The employee is employed in a work unit for which on-call premium pay
 is authorized.
 `(3) The employee is officially scheduled to be on call outside such
 employee's regular hours or on a holiday designated by Federal statute or
 Executive order.
 `(c) An employee who is eligible for on-call pay under subsection (a) and
 who was receiving standby premium pay pursuant to section 5545 of title 5
 on May 20, 1988, shall, as long as such employee is employed in the same
 position and work unit and remains eligible for such standby pay, receive
 pay for any period of on-call duty at the rate equal to the greater of--
 `(1) the rate of pay which such employee would receive if being paid the rate
 of standby pay pursuant to such section that such individual would be entitled
 to receive if such individual were not scheduled to be on call instead, or
 `(2) the rate of pay which such employee is entitled to receive including
 on-call premium pay described in subsection (a).'.
 (5) Such chapter is further amended by adding after subchapter V (as added
 by section 203(a)) the following:
`SUBCHAPTER VI--REGIONAL MEDICAL EDUCATION CENTERS
`Sec. 7471. Designation of Regional Medical Education Centers
 `(a) In carrying out the Secretary's functions under section 7302 of this
 title with regard to the training of health personnel, the Secretary shall
 implement a program under which the Secretary shall designate as Regional
 Medical Education Centers such Department hospitals as the Secretary
 determines appropriate to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
 `(b) Each Regional Medical Education Center (hereinafter in this subchapter
 referred to as `Center') designated under subsection (a) shall provide
 continuing medical and related education programs for personnel eligible
 for training under this subchapter. Such programs shall include the following:
 `(1) The teaching of newly developed medical skills and the use of newly
 developed medical technologies and equipment.
 `(2) Advanced clinical instruction.
 `(3) The opportunity for conducting clinical investigations.
 `(4) Clinical demonstrations in the use of new types of health personnel
 and in the better use of the skills of existing health personnel.
 `(5) Routine verification of basic medical skills and, where determined
 necessary, remediation of any deficiency in such skills.
`Sec. 7472. Supervision and staffing of Centers
 `(a) Centers shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief Medical
 Director and shall be staffed with personnel qualified to provide the
 highest quality instruction and training in various medical and health
 care disciplines.
 `(b) As a means of providing appropriate recognition to persons in the career
 service of the Administration who possess outstanding qualifications in a
 particular medical or health care discipline, the Chief Medical Director shall
 from time to time and for such period as the Chief Medical Director considers
 appropriate assign such persons to serve as visiting instructors at Centers.
 `(c) Whenever the Chief Medical Director considers it necessary for the
 effective conduct of the program provided for under this subchapter, the
 Chief Medical Director may contract for the services of highly qualified
 medical and health personnel from outside the Department to serve as
 instructors at such Centers.
`Sec. 7473. Personnel eligible for training
 `(a) The Chief Medical Director shall determine the manner in which personnel
 are to be selected for training in the Centers. Preference shall be given
 to career personnel of the Administration.
 `(b) To the extent that facilities are available medical and health personnel
 from outside the Administration may, on a reimbursable basis, be provided
 training in the Centers. Such reimbursement may include reciprocal training
 of personnel of the Administration provided under sharing arrangements
 entered into by the Chief Medical Director and the heads of the entities
 providing such reciprocal training. Any amounts received by the United
 States as reimbursement under this subsection shall be credited to the
 applicable Department medical appropriation account.
`Sec. 7474. Consultation
 `The Chief Medical Director shall carry out this subchapter after consultation
 with the special medical advisory group established pursuant to section
 7312(a) of this title.'.
 (c) TRANSFERS OF CHAPTER 73 SECTIONS TO NEW CHAPTER 74- (1)(A) Sections
 4141 and 4142, as amended by section 301, are redesignated as sections 7451
 and 7452, respectively, and are transferred to subchapter IV of chapter 74,
 as added by subsection (b), and inserted before section 7453.
 (B) The heading for subchapter IV of chapter 73, as added by section 102(b)
 of Public Law 101-366, is repealed.
 (2) Section 7451, as so redesignated and transferred, is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking out `clauses (1) and (3) of section 4104' in paragraph
 (2)(B) and inserting in lieu thereof `paragraphs (1) and (3) of section 7401';
 (ii) by striking out `section 4107' in paragraph (3) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `section 7404';
 (iii) by striking out `section 4142' in paragraph (4) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `section 7452';
 (B) by striking out `section 4104(1)' and `section `4107(b)' in subsection
 (b) and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7401(1)' and `section 7404(b)',
 respectively; and
 (C) by striking out `section 4142(b)(2)' in subsection (g)(8) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7452(b)(2)'.
 (3) Section 7452, as so redesignated and transferred, is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) by striking out `section 4141(a)' in paragraph (1) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `section 7451(a)'; and
 (ii) by striking out `section 4141(c)(1)' in paragraph (2) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7451(c)(1)';
 (B) by striking out `section 4141(g)' in subsection (b)(2) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7451(g)';
 (C) by striking out `section 4104(1)' in subsections (c)(1) and (e) and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 7401(1)'; and
 (D) by striking out `section 4141' in subsection (f) and inserting in lieu
 thereof `section 7451'.
 (4) Section 4120 of such title, as in effect on the day before the date of
 the enactment of this Act, is redesignated as section 7458, transferred to
 the end of subchapter IV of chapter 74 of that title, as added by subsection
 (b), and amended by striking out `section 4118 of this title' in subsection
 (f) and inserting in lieu thereof `subchapter III'.
SEC. 402. REDESIGNATION OF SECTIONS OF CHAPTERS 51 THROUGH 85.
 (a) TRANSFER OF CHAPTER 75- Chapter 75 is transferred to the end of part
 V and is redesignated as chapter 78.
 (b) REDESIGNATION OF SECTIONS TO CONFORM TO CHAPTER NUMBERS- (1) Each
 section contained in any of chapters 51, 53, 55, 57, 59, 61, 71, 72, 76,
 78 (as redesignated by subsection (a)), 81, 83, and 85 is redesignated so
 that the first two digits of the section number of that section are the
 same as the chapter number of the chapter containing that section.
 (2) Chapter 82 is amended--
 (A) by redesignating section 5070 as section 8201;
 (B) by redesignating sections 5071, 5072, 5073, and 5074 as sections 8211,
 8212, 8213, and 8214, respectively;
 (C) by redesignating sections 5081, 5082, and 5083 as sections 8221, 8222,
 and 8223, respectively;
 (D) by redesignating sections 5091, 5092, and 5093 as sections 8231, 8232,
 and 8233, respectively; and
 (E) by redesignating section 5096 as section 8241.
 (c) TABLES OF SECTIONS AND CHAPTERS- (1) The tables of sections at the
 beginning of the chapters referred to in subsection (b) are revised so as
 to conform the section references in those tables to the redesignations
 made by that subsection.
 (2) The table of chapters before part I and the tables of chapters at the
 beginning of parts IV, V, and VI are revised so as to conform the section
 references in those tables to the redesignations made by subsection (b).
 (d) CROSS-REFERENCES- (1) Each provision of title 38, United States Code,
 that contains a reference to a section redesignated by section 401(a)(4)
 or by subsection (b) is amended so that the reference refers to the section
 as redesignated.
 (2) Any reference in a provision of law other than title 38, United States
 Code, to a section redesignated by subsection (b) shall be deemed to refer
 to the section as so redesignated.
SEC. 403. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) SUBCHAPTERS OF CHAPTER 73- Subchapter III and subchapter IV (as
 redesignated by section 401(a)(2)) of chapter 73 are amended--
 (1) by striking out `Administrator' and `Administrator's' each place
 they appear and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretary' and `Secretary's',
 respectively; and
 (2) by striking out `Veterans' Administration' each place it appears and
 inserting in lieu thereof `Department';
 (3) by striking out `section 4101(c)(1)' in section 7362 and inserting in
 lieu thereof `section 7303(a)';
 (4) by striking out `of this section' and `of this subsection' each place
 they appear (other than in subsections (d), (e), and (g) of section 7332
 and in section 7333(b)); and
 (5) by striking out `of this paragraph' in section 7332(f)(2)(B).
 (b) REFERENCES TO CHAPTER 73 PROVISIONS-
 (1) Section 1904(a) is amended by striking out `section 4101' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7303'.
 (2) Section 5705(a) (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended by striking
 out `section 4152(b)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7311(g)'.
 (3) Section 7604(1)(B) (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended by
 striking out `section 4105' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7402'.
 (4) Section 7612(b) (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (2)--
 (i) by striking out `section 4104' in the matter preceding subparagraph
 (A) and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7401'; and
 (ii) by striking out `section 4104(3)' in subparagraph (B) and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7401(3)'; and
 (B) in paragraph (3), by striking out `section 4107(g)(1)(B) of this title'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection (a)(1) of section 7455 of this
 title for personnel described in subsection (a)(2)(B) of such section'.
 (5) Section 7616(b)(4) (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended by
 striking out `section 4108(c)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section
 7423(d)(1)'.
 (6) Section 8201(f) (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended by
 striking out `section 4101(b)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7302'.
 (7) Section 8241 (as redesignated by section 402(b)) is amended by striking
 out `section 4101(b)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7302'.
 (c) REFERENCES IN TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE- Title 5, United States Code,
 is amended as follows:
 (1) Section 5102(c) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (14), by striking out `section 4202 of title 38' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 7802 of title 38'; and
 (B) in paragraph (16), by striking out `section 4114' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `sections 7405 and 7406'.
 (2) Section 6123 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `section 4107(e)(5)' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `section 7453(e)'; and
 (B) in subsection (c)(2)--
 (i) by striking out `section 4107(e)(2)' in the matter preceding subparagraph
 (A) and inserting in lieu thereof `section 7453(b)'; and
 (ii) by striking out `subsection (e)(2) of such section 4107' in subparagraph
 (B) and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection (b) of such section 7453'.
 (3) Section 6128(a) is amended by striking out `section 4107(e)(5)' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `section 7453(e)'.
 (e) PART V HEADING-
 (1) The heading of part V is amended to read as follows:
`PART V--BOARDS, ADMINISTRATIONS, AND SERVICES'.
 (2) The item relating to part V in the table of parts before part I is
 amended to read as follows:
7101'.
 (f) TABLES OF CHAPTERS-
 (1) The table of chapters before part I is amended--
 (A) by striking out the heading for part V and inserting in lieu thereof
 the following:
`PART V--BOARDS, ADMINISTRATIONS, AND SERVICES';
 (B) by striking out the items relating to chapters 73 and 75 and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
7301
7401';
and
 (C) by inserting after the item relating to chapter 76 the following new item:
7801'.
 (2) The table of chapters at the beginning of part V is amended--
 (A) by striking out the items relating to chapters 73 and 75 and inserting
 in lieu thereof the following:
7301
7401';
and
 (B) by adding at the end the following new item:
7801'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.