 
--H.R.3795--
H.R.3795
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend title 28, United States Code, to establish 3 divisions in the Central
Judicial District of California.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
 The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) The Federal Government has the responsibility to provide quality services
 which are readily accessible to the people it serves.
 (2) The court facilities in the Central Judicial District of California
 are presently inadequate, and current and projected growth exacerbates
 the problem.
 (3) The population demographics of southern California have changed
 dramatically over the last decade, as the center of population shifts
 inland. Between 1980 and 1990, the population of Riverside County increased
 76.5 percent, and San Bernardino County's population increased 58.5 percent,
 to a combined population of 2,600,000.
 (4) In the next 15 years, the population in Riverside and San Bernardino
 Counties is expected to increase again by 70 percent, and 67 percent,
 respectively. By the year 2005, Riverside and San Bernardino Counties will
 have 4,400,000 residents.
 (5) As a result of the population growth, the freeways connecting the Pacific
 coast and the inland areas are tremendously overburdened, and Federal offices
 along the coast are no longer accessible to the residents of Riverside and
 San Bernardino Counties.
 (6) The creation of 3 divisions in the Central Judicial District of California
 is urgently needed to provide for the delivery of judicial services to all
 areas and all residents of the Central Judicial District of California.
SEC. 2. CREATION OF 3 DIVISIONS IN CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
 Section 84(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) The Central District comprises 3 divisions.
 `(1) The Eastern Division comprises the counties of Riverside and San
 Bernardino.
 `Court for the Eastern Division shall be held at a suitable site in the
 city of Riverside, the city of San Bernardino, or not more than 5 miles
 from the boundary of either such city.
 `(2) The Western Division comprises the counties of Los Angeles, San Luis
 Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura.
 `Court for the Western Division shall be held at Los Angeles.
 `(3) The Southern Division comprises Orange County.
 `Court for the Southern Division shall be held at Santa Ana.'.
SEC. 3. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take
 effect 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (b) PENDING CASES NOT AFFECTED- This Act and the amendments made by this
 Act shall not affect any action commenced before the effective date of
 this Act and pending in the United States District Court for the Central
 District of California on such date.
 (c) JURIES NOT AFFECTED- This Act and the amendments made by this Act
 shall not affect the composition, or preclude the service, of any grand or
 petit jury summoned, empaneled, or actually serving in the Central Judicial
 District of California on the effective date of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.