 
--H.R.3836--
H.R.3836
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the management of Federal lands containing the Pacific yew
to ensure a sufficient supply of taxol, a cancer-treating drug made from
the Pacific yew.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Pacific Yew Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS, PURPOSES, AND DEFINITIONS.
 (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds the following:
 (1) Over 12,000 women die each year from ovarian cancer and 44,500 women
 die from breast cancer.
 (2) Taxol, a drug made from the Pacific yew (Taxus brevifolia), has been
 successful in treating ovarian cancer in clinical trials and shows promise
 in the treatment of breast cancer and other types of cancer.
 (3) The production of small amounts of taxol currently requires the use of
 large numbers of Pacific yew.
 (4) The Pacific yew is a slow-growing tree species found in the Western
 United States.
 (5) Significant numbers of Pacific yew trees are found in old-growth forests
 on Federal lands in the Pacific Northwest.
 (6) Before the importance of taxol was discovered, the Pacific yew was
 considered a trash tree and was often burned in slash piles after timber
 operations.
 (7) Remaining Pacific yew resources must be carefully managed in order to
 ensure a steady supply of taxol for the treatment of cancer, while also
 providing for the long-term conservation of the species.
 (8) Appropriate management guidelines must be implemented promptly in order
 to prevent any wasting of the Pacific yew in current and future timber sales
 on Federal lands, while successful and affordable alternative methods of
 manufacturing taxol are being developed.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are to contribute to the successful
 treatment of cancer by ensuring that Pacific yew trees located on lands of
 the National Forest System and on public lands administered by the Bureau
 of Land Management are managed to--
 (1) provide for the efficient collection and utilization of those parts
 of the Pacific yew that can be used in the manufacture of taxol for the
 treatment of cancer;
 (2) provide for the sale of Pacific yew from such lands for the commercial
 production and subsequent sale of taxol at a reasonable cost to cancer
 patients;
 (3) ensure the long-term conservation of the Pacific yew; and
 (4) prevent the wasting of Pacific yew resources while successful and
 affordable alternative methods of manufacturing taxol are being developed.
 (c) SECRETARY CONCERNED DEFINED- For purposes of this Act, the term
 `Secretary concerned' means--
 (1) the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to lands and interests in
 lands under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service; and
 (2) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to lands and interests in
 lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management.
SEC. 3. PACIFIC YEW CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT.
 (a) PACIFIC YEW POLICY- The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of
 the Interior shall pursue a conservation and management policy with respect
 to lands and interests in lands under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service
 or the Bureau of Land Management, which contain the Pacific yew in order to--
 (1) provide for the sustainable harvest of Pacific yew, or Pacific yew
 parts, in accordance with relevant land and resource management plans for
 the manufacture of taxol; and
 (2) provide for the long-term conservation of the Pacific yew in the wild.
 (b) CONTENT OF POLICY- The conservation and management policy required by
 subsection (a) shall ensure that--
 (1) in planning harvests of the Pacific yew, priority be given first to areas
 in which timber has been cut but Pacific yew trees have not been removed,
 second to areas in which timber is already sold but remains uncut, third
 to areas scheduled for timber sale in the near future, and fourth to those
 other areas where commercial and salvage timber sales are allowed under
 existing laws;
 (2) individual Pacific yew trees are utilized with little or no waste;
 (3) to the extent that timber harvesters' health and safety will not be
 jeopardized, the bark is harvested from Pacific yew trees in timber sale
 areas before the harvest of other timber resources;
 (4) whenever Pacific yew trees are harvested, they are--
 (A) cut using methods designed to allow for resprouting from the stump; and
 (B) replanted where necessary to maintain the species in the ecosystem; and
 (5) timber management and harvest activities are carried out in a manner
 that will minimize any adverse effects on the survival and regeneration of
 Pacific yew trees.
 (c) APPLICATION OF POLICY TO TIMBER HARVESTING-
 (1) APPLICATION- The Secretary concerned shall ensure that timber sales
 awarded after the date of the enactment of this Act, and timber sales
 completed before that date but still unharvested on that date, are conducted
 in accordance with--
 (A) the policy expressed in subsection (a); and
 (B) the relevant land and resource management plans of the Secretary
 concerned.
 (2) CONSULTATION UNDER ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT- If the Secretary concerned
 foresees the need to harvest Pacific yew in an area for which an opinion
 issued under subsection (b)(3)(A) of section 7 of the Endangered Species
 Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536) has concluded that a commercial timber sale is
 likely to jeopardize the continued existence of an endangered or threatened
 species or destroy or adversely modify critical habitat identified for the
 species under that Act, the Secretary concerned shall immediately initiate
 consultation under that section to determine the effect on endangered and
 threatened species and critical habitat of harvesting only Pacific yew trees.
 (d) INVENTORY OF PACIFIC YEW- Not later than 6 months after the date of
 the enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned shall complete the
 ongoing inventory of Pacific yew on lands under the jurisdiction of the
 Secretary concerned.
SEC. 4. RESEARCH.
 Each Secretary concerned shall encourage and, where appropriate, assist in
 research regarding--
 (1) the ecology of the Pacific yew;
 (2) the development of alternative methods of procuring taxol, including
 utilization of other yew parts in addition to bark, the sustainable harvest
 of yew needles, and the utilization of other yew species; and
 (3) the propagation of Pacific yew and other yew species in agricultural
 or commercial settings.
SEC. 5. COLLECTION AND SALE OF PACIFIC YEW RESOURCES.
 (a) ENFORCEMENT AND ACCESS- The Secretary concerned shall ensure the
 development, implementation, and enforcement of processes for the collection
 and sale of Pacific yew resources that will minimize the illegal harvest and
 sale of such resources. The Secretary shall also ensure that access to Pacific
 yew resources is allowed in a timely manner such that collection of Pacific
 yew parts can occur before the taxol properties of such parts are degraded.
 (b) NEGOTIATED SALES-
 (1) FOREST SERVICE SALES- Notwithstanding section 14 of the National Forest
 Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 472a), the Secretary of Agriculture may
 negotiate sales of Pacific yew on lands under the jurisdiction of the Forest
 Service at not less than appraised value, to parties manufacturing taxol
 in the United States in accordance with section 505 of the Federal Food,
 Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) for use in humans.
 (2) BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT SALES- Notwithstanding the Materials Act of 1947
 (30 U.S.C. 601-604), the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and Act of August 28, 1937 (43 U.S.C. 1181a-1181f),
 the Secretary of the Interior may negotiate sales of Pacific yew on lands
 under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management at not less than
 appraised value, to parties manufacturing taxol in the United States in
 accordance with section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
 (21 U.S.C. 355) for use in humans.
 (3) DISPOSITION OF UNUTILIZED MATERIAL- The Secretary concerned shall, to
 the extent practicable, make material unutilized by purchasers of Pacific
 yew available to others.
 (4) LIMITS ON OTHER SALES- Except as provided in paragraphs (1), (2), and
 (3), the Secretary concerned shall not sell Pacific yew for commercial use.
 (5) USE OF RECEIPTS- The Secretary concerned may use amounts received from
 the sale of Pacific yew under this section to pay the costs incurred by
 the Secretary concerned associated with the harvest and sale of Pacific yew.
 (c) RECORD KEEPING- The Secretary concerned shall keep accurate records of
 all sales, bark removal, or other harvest of the Pacific yew. The records
 shall include the following information:
 (1) The date of sale (where applicable) and the date of harvest.
 (2) The names of the persons performing the harvest.
 (3) The record of authorization for the harvest.
 (4) The location and size of the area in which the harvest occurred.
 (5) The quantity of Pacific yew harvested, including, to the extent
 practicable, the number of trees harvested, volume of bark harvested,
 and weight of bark harvested.
 (d) EFFECT ON PRIOR SALES- With respect to Pacific yew harvested before the
 date of the enactment of this Act on lands under the jurisdiction of the
 Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management, the Secretary concerned may
 permit taxol derived from that Pacific yew to be used for purposes other
 than research if the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifies to
 the Secretary concerned that such permission--
 (1) will increase patient access to taxol treatment; and
 (2) will not result in insufficient supplies of taxol for clinical research.
SEC. 6. RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
 Nothing in this Act shall be interpreted as modifying the provisions of the
 Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
 et seq.), the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701
 et seq.), or the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.),
 except as explicitly provided in section 3.
SEC. 7. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act (and
 annually thereafter), each Secretary concerned shall submit to the Committee
 on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, the Committee on Interior and Insular
 Affairs, and the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives,
 and the Committee on Environment and Public Works, the Committee on Energy
 and Natural Resources, and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
 Forestry of the Senate a report containing the following:
 (1) A judgment as to whether sufficient amounts of Pacific yew have been
 harvested, and can continue to be harvested for the next year, to supply
 necessary amounts of taxol required for medicinal purposes, together with
 a summary of the information on which the judgment is based.
 (2) The results of the Pacific yew inventory required by section 3(d).
SEC. 8. EXPIRATION OF REQUIREMENTS.
 The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall determine when quantities of
 taxol sufficient to satisfy medicinal demands are available from sources other
 than Pacific yew trees harvested on Federal lands and notify each Secretary
 concerned upon making such determination. If the Secretaries concerned concur,
 they shall jointly notify the relevant congressional committees, as listed
 in section 7, at which time the requirements of this Act shall expire.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.