 
--H.R.3866--
H.R.3866
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the designation of the Flower Garden Banks National Marine
Sanctuary.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY
FLOWER GARDEN BANKS NATIONAL MARINE SANCTUARY
 SECTION 101. Notwithstanding section 304(b) of the Marine Protection,
 Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1434(b))--
 (1) the Secretary of Commerce shall, on January 17, 1992 (or as soon
 thereafter as is practicable), publish under that Act in the Federal
 Register a notice of designation of  the Flower Garden Banks National
 Marine Sanctuary, as described in the notice of designation submitted to
 the Congress on November 20, 1991; and
 (2) that designation shall take effect on January 17, 1992.
TITLE II--MERCHANT MARINE PROVISIONS
NON-VESSEL-OPERATING COMMON CARRIERS
 SEC. 201. (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the
 `Non-Vessel-Operating Common Carrier Act of 1991'.
 (b) PROHIBITED ACTS- Section 10(b) of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46
 U.S.C. App. 1709(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (14), by inserting `, insurance, or other surety' after
 `bond'; and
 (2) in paragraph (15), by inserting `, insurance, or other surety' after
 `bond'.
 (c) SURETY FOR NVOCC'S- Section 23 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46
 U.S.C. App. 1721), is amended--
 (1) in the section heading by striking `bonding of' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `surety for';
 (2) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
 `(a) SURETY- Each non-vessel-operating common carrier shall furnish to
 the Commission a bond, proof of insurance, or such other surety, as the
 Commission may require, in a form and an amount determined by the Commission
 to be satisfactory to insure the financial responsibility of that carrier. Any
 bond submitted pursuant to this section shall be issued by a surety company
 found acceptable by the Secretary of the Treasury.';
 (3) by striking subsection (b) and redesignating subsections (c) through
 (e) as subsections (b) through (d), respectively;
 (4) in subsection (b), as so redesignated--
 (A) by striking `BOND' in the subsection heading and inserting in lieu
 thereof `SURETY';
 (B) by inserting `, insurance, or other surety' after `bond'; and
 (C) by inserting `under this Act' after `transportation-related activities';
 and
 (5) in subsection (d), as so redesignated--
 (A) by inserting `, insurance, or other surety' after `bond'; and
 (B) by striking `subsection (d)' and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection
 (c)'.
 (d) INTERIM RULES AND REGULATIONS- The Federal Maritime Commission may
 prescribe interim rules and regulations necessary to carry out the amendments
 made by this section.
 (e) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The item relating to section 23 in the table of
 contents in the first section of the Shipping Act of 1984 is amended by
 striking `Bonding of'  and inserting in lieu thereof `Surety for'.
 (f) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall become effective 90 days after the
 date of its enactment.
CLARIFICATIONS OF, AND LIMITATIONS ON, GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITIONS
 SEC. 202. (a) TRANSPORT TO A PLACE IN A STATE, ETC- Section 2 of the Act of
 January 2, 1951 (15 U.S.C. 1172; commonly referred to as the `Johnson Act'),
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting before the first paragraph the following: `(a) GENERAL RULE-
 ';
 (2) in subsection (a) (as so designated) by striking `, District of
 Columbia,';
 (3) by inserting before the second paragraph the following: `(b) AUTHORITY
 OF FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION- '; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following:
 `(c) EXCEPTION- This section does not prohibit the transport of a gambling
 device to a place in a State or a possession of the United States on a
 vessel on a voyage, if--
 `(1) use of the gambling device on a portion of that voyage is, by reason
 of subsection (b) of section 5, not a violation of that section; and
 `(2) the gambling device remains on board that vessel while in that State.'.
 (b) REPAIR, OTHER TRANSPORT, ETC- Section 5 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 1175)
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting before `It shall be unlawful' the following: `(a) GENERAL
 RULE- ';
 (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `, including
 on a vessel documented under chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code,
 or documented under the laws of a foreign country'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(b) EXCEPTION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), this section does
 not prohibit--
 `(A) the repair, transport, possession, or use of a gambling device on a
 vessel that is not within the boundaries of any State or possession of the
 United States; or
 `(B) the transport or possession, on a voyage, of a gambling device on
 a vessel that is within the boundaries of any State or possession of the
 United States, if--
 `(i) use of the gambling device on a portion of that voyage is, by reason
 of subparagraph (A), not a violation of this section; and
 `(ii) the gambling device remains on board that vessel while the vessel is
 within the boundaries of that State or possession.
 `(2) APPLICATION TO CERTAIN VOYAGES-
 `(A) GENERAL RULE- Paragraph (1)(A) does not apply to the repair or use of
 a gambling device on a vessel that is on a voyage or segment of a voyage
 described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph if the State or possession
 of the United States in which the voyage or segment begins and ends has
 enacted a statute the terms of which prohibit that repair or use on that
 voyage or segment.
 `(B) VOYAGE AND SEGMENT DESCRIBED- A voyage or segment of a voyage referred
 to in subparagraph (A) is a voyage or segment, respectively--
 `(i) that begins and ends in the same State or possession of the United
 States, and
 `(ii) during which the vessel does not make an intervening stop within
 the boundaries of another State or possession of the United States or a
 foreign country.'.
 (c) BOUNDARIES DEFINED- The first section of that Act (15 U.S.C. 1171)
 is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(f) The term `boundaries' has the same meaning given that term in section
 2 of the Submerged Lands Act.'.
TITLE III--IMPLEMENTATION OF MARITIME BOUNDARY AGREEMENT AMENDMENTS TO
MAGNUSON FISHERY CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT ACT
 SEC. 301. (a) PURPOSES- Section 2(b)(1) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801(b)(1)) is amended by inserting `, and
 fishery resources in the special areas' immediately before the semicolon
 at the end.
 (b) DEFINITIONS- Section 3 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1802) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (24) through (32) as paragraphs (25) through
 (33), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting immediately after paragraph (23) the following new paragraph:
 `(24) The term `special areas' means the areas referred to as eastern
 special areas in Article 3(1) of the Agreement between the United States of
 America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary,
 signed June 1, 1990; in particular, the term refers to those areas east of
 the  maritime boundary, as defined in that Agreement, that lie within 200
 nautical miles of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea
 of  Russia is measured but beyond 200 nautical miles of the baselines from
 which the breadth of the territorial sea of the United States is measured.'.
 (c) UNITED STATES MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY- (1) Section 101(a) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1811(a)) is amended by
 inserting `and special areas' immediately before the period at the end.
 (2) Section 101(b) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1811(b)) is amended by inserting immediately after paragraph
 (2) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) All fishery resources in the special areas.'.
 (d) FOREIGN FISHING- Section 201 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1821) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting `within the special areas,' immediately before `or for
 anadromous species'; and
 (B) by striking `beyond the exclusive economic zone' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `beyond such zone or areas';
 (2) in subsection (e)(1)(E)(IV), by inserting `or special areas' immediately
 after `exclusive economic zone';
 (3) in subsection (i)--
 (A) by inserting `or special areas' immediately before the period at the
 end of paragraph (1)(A);
 (B) by inserting `or special areas' immediately after `exclusive economic
 zone' in paragraph (2)(A); and
 (C) by inserting `or special areas' immediately after `exclusive economic
 zone' in paragraph (2)(B); and
 (4) in subsection (j)--
 (A) by inserting `, special areas,' immediately after `exclusive economic
 zone'; and
 (B) by inserting `, areas,' immediately after `such zone'.
 (e) INTERNATIONAL FISHERY AGREEMENTS- Section 202 of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1822) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by inserting `or special areas' immediately after `February 28,
 1977)'; and
 (B) by striking `such zone or area' and inserting in lieu thereof `such
 zone or areas';
 (2) in subsection (c)--
 (A) by inserting `or special areas' immediately after `February 28,
 1977)'; and
 (B) by striking `such zone or area' and inserting in lieu thereof `such
 zone or areas'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(g) FISHERY AGREEMENT WITH UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS- (1) The
 Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary, is authorized to
 negotiate and conclude a fishery agreement with Russia of a duration of no
 more than 3 years, pursuant to which--
 `(A) Russia will give United States fishing vessels the opportunity to conduct
 traditional fisheries within waters claimed by the United States prior to
 the conclusion of the Agreement between the United States of America and
 the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed
 June 1, 1990, west of the maritime boundary, including the western special
 area described in Article 3(2) of the Agreement;
 `(B) the United States will give fishing vessels of Russia the opportunity to
 conduct traditional fisheries within waters claimed by the Union of Soviet
 Socialist Republics prior to the conclusion of the Agreement referred to
 in subparagraph (A), east of the maritime boundary, including the eastern
 special areas described in Article 3(1) of the Agreement;
 `(C) catch data shall be made available to the government of the country
 exercising fisheries jurisdiction over the waters in which the catch
 occurred; and
 `(D) each country shall have the right to place observers on board vessels
 of the other country and to board and inspect such vessels.
 `(2) Vessels operating under a fishery agreement negotiated and concluded
 pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be subject to regulations and permit
 requirements of the country in whose waters the fisheries are conducted
 only to the extent such regulations and permit requirements are specified
 in that agreement.
 `(3) The Secretary of Commerce may promulgate such regulations, in accordance
 with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of any fishery agreement negotiated and concluded
 pursuant to paragraph (1).'.
 (f) PERMITS FOR FOREIGN FISHING- Section 204(a) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1824(a)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `within the special areas,' immediately before `or for
 anadromous species'; and
 (2) by inserting `or areas' immediately after `such zone'.
 (g) CONTENTS OF FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLANS- Section 303(b)(1)(A) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1853(b)(1)(A)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `or special areas,' immediately after `exclusive economic
 zone'; and
 (2) by inserting `or areas' immediately after `such zone'.
 (h) PROHIBITED ACTS- Section 307 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1857) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(K), by inserting `or special areas' immediately after
 `exclusive economic zone';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(B)--
 (A) by inserting `within the special areas,' immediately after `exclusive
 economic zone'; and
 (B) by inserting `or areas' immediately after `such zone';
 (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting `or special areas' immediately after
 `exclusive economic zone'; and
 (4) in paragraph (4), by inserting `or special areas' immediately after
 `exclusive economic zone'.
 (i) ENFORCEMENT- Section 311(b)(2) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1861(b)(2)) is amended by inserting `and special
 areas' immediately after `exclusive economic zone'.
AMENDMENTS TO NORTHERN PACIFIC HALIBUT ACT OF 1982
 SEC. 302. (a) DEFINITIONS- (1) Section 2(c) of the Northern Pacific Halibut
 Act of 1982 (16 U.S.C. 773(c)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(c) `Exclusive economic zone' means the zone established by Proclamation
 Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983. For purposes of applying this Act,
 the inner boundary of that zone is a line coterminous with the seaward
 boundary of each of the coastal States.'.
 (2) Section 2 of the Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982 (16 U.S.C. 773)
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h) `Special areas' means the areas referred to as eastern special areas in
 Article 3(1) of the Agreement between the United States of America and the
 Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1,
 1990; in particular, the term refers to those areas east of the  maritime
 boundary, as defined in that Agreement, that lie within 200 nautical miles
 of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea of Russia
 is measured but beyond 200 nautical miles of the baselines from which the
 breadth of the territorial sea of the United States is measured.'.
 (b) UNLAWFUL ACTS- Section 7(b) of the Northern Pacific Halibut Act of 1982
 (16 U.S.C. 773e(b)) is amended by striking `fishery conservation zone'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `exclusive economic zone or special areas'.
AMENDMENTS TO THE FUR SEAL ACT OF 1966
 SEC. 303. Section 101 of the Fur Seal Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 1151)
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (f) through (m) as subsections (g) through
 (n), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting immediately after subsection (e) the following new
 subsection:
 `(f) `Jurisdiction of the United States' includes jurisdiction over the
 areas referred to as eastern special areas in Article 3(1) of the Agreement
 between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
 Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1, 1990; in particular,
 those areas east of the maritime boundary, as defined in that Agreement,
 that lie within 200 nautical miles of the baselines from which the breadth
 of the territorial sea of Russia is measured but beyond 200 nautical miles
 of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea of the United
 States is measured.'.
AMENDMENTS TO MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT OF 1972
 SEC. 304. Section 3(14) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16
 U.S.C. 1362(14)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(14) The term `waters under the jurisdiction of the United States' means--
 `(A) the territorial sea of the United States;
 `(B) the waters included within a zone, contiguous to the territorial sea
 of the United States, of which the inner boundary is a line coterminous
 with the seaward boundary of each coastal State, and the outer boundary is
 a line drawn in such a manner that each point on it is 200 nautical miles
 from the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured; and
 `(C) the areas referred to as eastern special areas in Article 3(1)
 of the Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of
 Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1, 1990;
 in particular, those areas east of the maritime boundary, as defined in that
 Agreement, that lie within 200 nautical miles of the baselines from which
 the breadth of the territorial sea of Russia is measured but beyond 200
 nautical miles of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial
 sea of the United States is measured.'.
RELATIONSHIP TO ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT OF 1973
 SEC. 305. The special areas defined in section 3(24) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802(24)) shall be considered
 places that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United States for the
 purposes of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
AMENDMENTS TO PACIFIC SALMON TREATY ACT OF 1985
 SEC. 306. (a) DEFINITIONS- Section 2 of the Pacific Salmon Treaty Act of 1985
 (16 U.S.C. 3631) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (h) through (j) as subsections (i) through
 (k), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting immediately after subsection (g) the following new
 subsection:
 `(h) `Special areas' means the areas referred to as eastern special areas in
 Article 3(1) of the Agreement between the United States of America and the
 Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1,
 1990; in particular, the term refers to those areas east of the  maritime
 boundary, as defined in that Agreement, that lie within 200 nautical miles
 of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial sea of Russia
 is measured but beyond 200 nautical miles of the baselines from which the
 breadth of the territorial sea of the United States is measured.'.
 (b) RULEMAKING- Section 7(a) of the Pacific Salmon Treaty Act of 1985 (16
 U.S.C. 3636(a)) is amended by inserting `and special areas' immediately after
 `Exclusive Economic Zone'.
NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM
 SEC. 307. (a) DEFINITIONS- Section 203(6) of the National Sea Grant College
 Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1122(6)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (E);
 (2) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as subparagraph (G); and
 (3) by inserting immediately after subparagraph (E) the following new
 subparagraph:
 `(F) the areas referred to as eastern special areas in Article 3(1)
 of the Agreement between the United States of America and the Union of
 Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary, signed June 1, 1990;
 in particular, those areas east of the maritime boundary, as defined in that
 Agreement, that lie within 200 nautical miles of the baselines from which
 the breadth of the territorial sea of Russia is measured but beyond 200
 nautical miles of the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial
 sea of the United States is measured; and'.
 (b) INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM- Section 3(a)(6) of the Sea Grant Program
 Improvement Act of 1976 (33 U.S.C. 1124a(a)(6)) is amended by inserting
 `and special areas' immediately after `exclusive economic zone'.
EFFECTIVE DATES
 SEC. 308. (a) IN GENERAL- The amendment made by section 301(e)(3) takes
 effect on the date of enactment of this Act, and the amendments made by
 the other provisions of this title, except as provided in subsection (b),
 shall be effective on the date on which the Agreement between the United
 States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime Boundary,
 signed June 1, 1990, enters into force for the United States.
 (b) AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE REGULATIONS- The authority to prescribe regulations
 to implement the amendments made by this title shall be effective on the
 date of enactment of this Act, but no such regulation may be effective
 until the date on which the Agreement described in subsection (a) enters
 into force for the United States.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.