 
--H.R.3638--
H.R.3638
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Making technical amendments to the law which authorizes modification of the
boundaries of the Alaska Maritime National Wildlife Refuge.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Koniag Lands Conveyance Amendments of 1991'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 1 of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize modification of the
  boundaries of the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge (Public Law 101-622;
  hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `Boundary Act')' is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as paragraphs (2),
  (4), and (5), respectively;
  (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated, the following:
  `(1) `Identified lands' means lands (including improvements, surface rights,
  and subsurface rights) designated as Tracts 1, 2, and 3 upon the map entitled
  `Koniag Land Exchange,' dated September 4, 1990, and available for inspection
  in appropriate offices of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;'; and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (2), as redesignated, the following:
  `(3) `Koniag Lands' means approximately 209 acres of lands (including
  improvements, surface rights, and subsurface rights to land) on Kodiak
  Island, Alaska, designated as `Koniag Lands' on the maps referred to in
  paragraph (1),'.
SEC. 3. LANDS TO BE EXCHANGED.
  (a) LANDS EXCHANGED TO THE UNITED STATES- Section 2(a) of the Boundary
  Act is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) LANDS EXCHANGED TO THE UNITED STATES- (1) If after a final value is
  assigned to the Identified lands and to the Koniag Lands, Koniag expresses
  to the Secretary in writing the intent of Koniag to enter into a land
  exchange with the United States, then the Secretary shall accept from
  Koniag a conveyance by limited general warranty deed of the Koniag Lands.
  `(2) A value shall be a final value for purposes of paragraph (1) if--
  `(A) the Secretary has assigned a value to the Identified lands and the
  Koniag Lands in accordance with section 3; and
  `(B) either--
  `(i) Koniag has expressed in writing its intent to forego judicial review
  under chapter 7 of title 5, United States Code, of the value assigned by
  the Secretary;
  `(ii) the time limit for filing a petition for judicial review under that
  chapter has expired and no petition has been filed; or
  `(iii) a final determination on any such petition is issued.
  `(3) For purposes of this subsection, a determination is final only if
  all rights to appeal the determination, or to request a review, rehearing,
  or redetermination of the matter that is the subject of the determination,
  have been exhausted or have lapsed.
  `(4) The Koniag Lands shall be included in the Alaska Maritime National
  Wildlife Refuge as of the date of the acceptance of the conveyance of
  those lands from Koniag.'.
  (b) LANDS EXCHANGED TO KONIAG- Section 2(b) of the Boundary Act is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(b) LANDS EXCHANGED TO KONIAG- In exchange for the Koniag Lands conveyed
  under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall, subject to valid existing
  rights and notwithstanding any other provision of law, convey to Koniag from
  within the Identified lands, land selected by Koniag with a total assigned
  value, as determined in accordance with section 3, equal to the sum of the
  value of the Koniag Lands, plus one-half of the cost of all appraisals
  performed under section 3. Such conveyance shall be by quitclaim deed,
  based upon a metes and bounds description of the land to be conveyed.'.
SEC. 4. ASSIGNMENT OF VALUES.
  (a) APPRAISALS- Section 3(a) of the Boundary Act is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(a) APPRAISALS- (1) Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment
  of the Koniag Lands Conveyance Amendments of 1991, the Secretary and Koniag
  shall each select an appraiser who shall independently perform an appraisal
  of the fair market value of the Koniag Lands and of the Identified lands.
  `(2) Each appraiser selected under paragraph (1)--
  `(A) shall be a member of or certified by the Appraisal Foundation, and
  `(B) shall have a professional designation compatible with the valuation
  to be performed.
  `(3) Appraisals under this subsection shall be performed in conformity
  with the standards of the Appraisal Foundation. Any special instruction
  regarding the performance of the appraisals shall be issued only upon the
  mutual agreement of Koniag and the Secretary.
  `(4)(A) Koniag shall bear the cost of all such appraisals, but shall be
  reimbursed by the United States for one-half of such costs--
  `(i) in land, in accordance with subsection (b)(2), or
  `(ii) in accordance with subparagraph (B).
  `(B) The Secretary shall pay to Koniag an amount equal to one-half of the
  costs of appraisals performed pursuant to this section, if--
  `(i) the values assigned by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (c)
  are different than--
  `(I) the values determined by the review appraiser pursuant to subsection
  (b)(2), or
  `(II) the average of the values assigned to the respective lands by the
  appraisers if no review appraiser is required to be selected, and
  `(ii) Koniag elects not to consummate the exchange.'.
  (b) DIFFERENCES IN APPRAISALS- Section 3(b) of the Boundary Act is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(b) DIFFERENCES IN APPRAISALS- (1) If the appraisals conducted under
  subsection (a) for tracts of the Koniag Lands or of the Identified lands
  differ by less than 20 percent in their assignment of values to particular
  tracts of those lands, then both appraisals for those particular tracts
  shall be submitted to the Secretary.
  `(2)(A) In the event that the appraisals conducted under subsection (a)
  for tracts of the Koniag Lands or of the Identified lands differ by more
  than 20 percent in their assignment of values to particular tracts of
  those lands, then the Secretary and Koniag shall jointly select a third
  appraiser who meets the requirements of section 3(a)(2).
  `(B) Such appraiser shall review the previously conducted appraisals for
  those tracts of land with appraisals differing by more than 20 percent,
  and shall assign values to those tracts, giving due consideration to the
  values set by the other 2 appraisers.
  `(C) Such appraiser shall then submit all 3 appraisals for those tracts
  to the Secretary.'.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- The heading for section 3 of the Boundary Act
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 3. ASSIGNMENT OF LAND VALUES.'.
  (d) ASSIGNMENT OF VALUE BY SECRETARY- Section 3 of the Boundary Act is
  amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(c) After considering the appraisals submitted to the Secretary, the
  Secretary shall assign values, as appropriate, to tracts of the Koniag Lands
  and to the Identified lands. This assignment of value shall be considered
  a final agency action for purposes of judicial review under chapter 7 of
  title 5, United States Code.'.
SEC. 5. TIMING.
  (a) CONVEYANCE BY KONIAG- Section 4(c) of the Boundary Act is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(c) CONVEYANCE BY KONIAG- Koniag shall have 180 days after the date the
  values are final under section 2(a)(2) in order to notify the Secretary
  of its intent to enter into the exchange and convey to the Secretary
  the Koniag Lands and to deliver to the Secretary a technically correct
  description of the lands to be conveyed to Koniag under section 2(b). The
  Secretary may extend such time for good cause.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 4(d) of the Boundary Act is amended by
  striking `them' in the first sentence and inserting `Koniag'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.