 
--H.R.2144--
 H.R.2144
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To restore the Federal trust relationship of the United Auburn Indian
Community, to establish the Advisory Council on California Indian Policy,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Advisory Council on California Indian Policy
  Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress has reviewed the social, economic, and political circumstances
  of California Indians and of governmental policies and programs affecting
  California Indians and finds that--
  (1) the Congress has recognized a special government-to-government
  relationship with Indian tribes in the United States;
  (2) due to the unique historical circumstances of the Indians of California,
  Federal law and policies have often dealt specifically with California
  Indians;
  (3) there is an urgent need to clarify the eligibility of unrecognized and
  terminated California Indian tribal groups to be federally acknowledged
  as Indian tribes with all the rights and powers attendant to that status;
  (4) there is among California Indians a continuing social and economic
  crisis, characterized by, among other things, alcohol and substance
  abuse, critical health problems, family violence and child abuse, lack
  of educational and employment opportunities, and significant barriers to
  tribal economic development;
  (5) these conditions exist even though public policies and programs adopted
  by the Federal Government have been intended to improve the conditions of
  California Indians; and
  (6) California Indian tribes and tribal organizations have expressed a need
  for a review of the public policies and programs affecting California Indians
  and to make such policies and programs more effective in accomplishing
  Federal policy objectives.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act--
  (1) The term `California Indian tribe' means any federally recognized or
  unacknowledged Indian tribe located in the State of California.
  (2) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (3) The term `Bureau' means the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department
  of the Interior.
  (4) The term `federally recognized Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe,
  band, group, or community that--
  (A) has been federally recognized or acknowledged by the United States
  Government through an Act of Congress, a Federal judicial decision, or an
  administrative decision by the Secretary pursuant to part 83 of title 25,
  Code of Federal Regulations;
  (B) was terminated by an Act of Congress and has been restored through an
  Act of Congress, a Federal judicial decision, an administrative determination
  or action by the Secretary; or
  (C) is included, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, on the list
  of federally recognized tribes maintained by the Secretary.
  (5) The term `unacknowledged Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe, band,
  group, or community that is not now federally acknowledged by the United
  States Government and has not been terminated by an Act of Congress.
  (6) The term `terminated Indian tribe' means any Indian tribe, band,
  or community that has been terminated by an Act of Congress and has not
  been restored through an Act of Congress, a Federal judicial decision,
  or an administrative determination or action by the Secretary.
  (7) The term `Council' means the Advisory Council on California Indian
  Policy established pursuant to section 4.
SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY COUNCIL.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Advisory Council on
  California Indian Policy.
  (b) MEMBERS- The Council shall be composed of 18 members who, other than
  the members provided for by paragraph (8), shall be appointed by the
  Secretary not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this
  Act as follows:
  (1) Two tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  federally recognized Indian tribes located within the northern California
  Agency area of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (2) Two tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  unacknowledged Indian tribes located within the northern California Agency
  area of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (3) Three tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  federally recognized Indian tribes located within the central California
  Agency area of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (4) Three tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  unacknowledged Indian tribes located in the central California Agency area
  of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (5) Two tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  federally recognized Indian tribes located within the southern California
  Agency area of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (6) Two tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  unacknowledged Indian tribes located within the southern California Agency
  area of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (7) Two tribal government representatives (or their designees) from the
  terminated Indian tribes located within the northern, central, or southern
  California Agency areas of the Bureau, including all field and subagencies.
  (8) The Area Director of the California Area Office of the Bureau and the
  Area Director of the California Area Office of the Indian Health Service
  who shall serve ex officio and as nonvoting members of the Council.
  (c) RECOMMENDATIONS FROM CALIFORNIA INDIAN TRIBES- In making appointments
  to the Council under subsection (b), the Secretary shall ensure that the
  California Indian tribes have been afforded a full and fair opportunity
  to select by consensus, in accordance with procedures developed by the
  California Indian tribes, representatives they will recommend to the
  Secretary for appointment to the Council, consult with the California Indian
  tribes; and make appointments to the Council from among those recommended
  or nominated by California Indian tribes.
  (d) INITIAL MEETING- The Council shall hold its first meeting by no later
  than the date that is 30 days after the date on which all members of the
  Council have been appointed.
  (e) VACANCY- Any vacancy in the Council shall not affect its powers,
  but shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointments
  were made.
  (f) QUORUM- Ten voting members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
  of business, but a smaller number, as determined by the Council, may
  conduct hearings.
  (g) CHAIRPERSON; VICE CHAIRPERSON- The Council shall select a Chairperson,
  a Vice Chairperson, and such other officers as it deems necessary.
  (h) COMPENSATION- No compensation shall be paid to a member of the Council
  solely for his services on the Council. All members of the Council shall be
  reimbursed for travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence,
  during the performance of duties of the Council while away from home or
  their regular place of business in accordance with subchapter 1 of chapter
  57 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 5. DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL.
  The Council shall--
  (1) develop a comprehensive list of California Indian tribes and the
  descendency list for each tribe based upon documents held by the Bureau
  including, but not limited to those specified in section 6;
  (2) identify the special problems confronting unacknowledged and terminated
  Indian tribes and propose reasonable mechanisms to provide for the
  orderly and fair consideration of requests by such tribes for Federal
  acknowledgement;
  (3) conduct a comprehensive study of--
  (A) the social, economic, and political status of California Indians;
  (B) the effectiveness of those policies and programs of the United States
  that affect California Indians; and
  (C) the services and facilities being provided to California Indian tribes,
  compared to those being provided to Indian tribes nationwide;
  (4) conduct public hearings on the subjects of such study;
  (5) develop recommendations for specific actions that--
  (A) will help to ensure that California Indians have life opportunities
  comparable to other American Indians of federally recognized tribes,
  while respecting their unique traditions, cultures, and special status as
  California Indians;
  (B) will address, among other things, the needs of California Indians for
  economic self-sufficiency, improved levels of educational achievement,
  improved health status, and reduced incidence of social problems; and
  (C) will respect the important cultural differences which characterize
  California Indians and California Indian tribes and tribal groups;
  (6) submit, by no later than the date that is 18 months after the date
  of the first meeting of the Council, a report on the study conducted under
  paragraph (3) together with the proposals and recommendations developed under
  paragraphs (2) and (5) and such other information obtained pursuant to this
  section as the Council deems relevant, to the 3Congress, the Secretary,
  and the Secretary of Health and Human Services; and
  (7) make such report available to California Indian tribes, tribal
  organizations, and the public.
SEC. 6. ACCESS TO DESCENDENCY LISTS.
  The Secretary shall provide to the Council, not later than 30 days after
  the first meeting of the Council, the following documents:
  (1) The rolls of California Indians developed in 1972 pursuant to the
  distribution of the Indian Claims Commission award of July 20, 1964,
  including but not limited to dockets Nos. 31, 37, 80, 80-D, and 347,
  and authorized by the Act of September 21, 1968 (82 Stat. 860).
  (2) The rolls of California Indians developed in 1955 pursuant to the
  distribution of the 1944 United States Court of Claims judgment award and
  authorized by the Act of May 18, 1928 (45 Stat. 602), as amended by the Act
  of June 30, 1948 (62 Stat. 1166), the Act of May 24, 1950 (64 Stat. 189),
  and the Act of June 8, 1954 (68 Stat. 240).
  (3) The rolls of California Indians developed in 1933 pursuant to the
  distribution of the United States Court of Claims judgment award and
  authorized by the Act of May 18, 1928 (45 Stat. 602).
  (4) The lists and rolls of California Indians registered as Indian by the
  Bureau of Indian Affairs developed pursuant to section 19 of the Act of
  June 18, 1934 (48 Stat. 984).
  (5) The lists and rolls of California Indians developed pursuant to the Acts
  of Congress terminating reservations and rancherias, including distributee
  rolls developed for the distribution of assets under the Act of August 18,
  1958 (72 Stat. 619), the Act of July 10, 1957 (71 Stat. 283), and the Act
  of March 29, 1956 (70 Stat. 58).
  (6) Any other rolls developed for Indian Claims Commission judgment awards
  covering any California land areas.
  (7) Upon the consent of each tribe, the current tribal membership rolls of
  California Indian tribes, except that, nothing in this paragraph or any other
  provision of this Act shall be construed as prohibiting any Indian tribal
  government from imposing any condition, limitation, or other restriction
  on the use or dissemination of any information or other data made available
  by consent of such tribal government to the Council under this Act.
SEC. 7. POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
  (a) STAFF- (1) Subject to such rules and regulations as may be adopted by
  the Council, the Chairperson of the Council shall have the power to--
  (A) appoint, terminate, and fix the compensation (without regard to the
  provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
  competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51
  and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, or of any other provision
  of law relating to the number, classification, and General Schedule rates)
  of an Executive Director of the Council and of such other personnel as the
  Council deems advisable to assist in the performance of the duties of the
  Council, at rates not to exceed a rate equal to the maximum rate of basic
  pay payable under section 5376 of such title for a position classified
  above GS-15 pursuant to section 5108 of such title; and
  (B) procure, as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United States Code,
  temporary and intermittent services to the same extent as is authorized
  for agencies in the executive branch, but at rates not to exceed the
  daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate of basic pay payable under
  section 5376 of such title for a position classified above GS-15 pursuant
  to section 5108 of such title.
  (2) Service of an individual as a member of the Council shall not be
  considered as service or employment bringing such individual within
  the provisions of any Federal law relating to conflicts of interest or
  otherwise imposing restrictions, requirements, or penalties in relation
  to the employment of persons, the performance of services, or the payment
  or receipt of compensation in connection with claims, proceedings, or
  matters involving the United States. Service as a member of the Council,
  or as an employee of the Council, shall not be considered service in an
  appointive or elective position in the Government for purposes of section
  8344 of title 5, United States Code, or comparable provisions of Federal law.
  (b) ACTIONS- The Council may hold such hearings and sit and act at such
  times, take such testimony, have such printing and binding done, enter into
  such contracts and other arrangements, make such expenditures, and take
  such other actions, as the Council may deem advisable provided, however,
  that no such action, contracting arrangement or expenditure be committed
  beyond the duration of the life of the Council pursuant to section 8. Any
  member of the Council may administer oaths or affirmations to witnesses
  appearing before the Council.
  (c) TASK FORCES- The Council is authorized to establish task forces which
  include individuals who are not members of the Council only for the purpose
  of gathering information on specific subjects identified by the Council as
  requiring the knowledge and expertise of such individuals. Any task force
  established by the Council shall be chaired by a voting member of the Council
  who shall preside at any task force hearing authorized by the Council. No
  compensation (other than compensation and expenses authorized under section
  4(h) to a member of the Council) may be paid to a member of a task force
  solely for his service on the task force, but the Council may authorize the
  reimbursement of members of a task force for travel expenses, including per
  diem in lieu of subsistence, during the performance of duties while away
  from the home, or regular place of business, of the member, in accordance
  with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code. The Council
  shall not authorize the appointment of personnel to act as staff for the
  task force, but may permit the use of Council staff and resources by a
  task force for the purpose of compiling data and information. Such data
  and information shall be for the exclusive use of the Council.
  (d) FUNDING- The Council is authorized to accept gifts of property,
  services, or funds and to expend funds derived from sources other than the
  Federal Government, including the State of California, private nonprofit
  organizations, corporations, or foundations which are determined appropriate
  and necessary to carry out the provisions of this title.
  (e) FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT- The provisions of the Federal Advisory
  Committee Act shall not apply to the Council.
  (f) COOPERATION OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- (1) The Council is authorized to
  secure directly from any office, department, agency, establishment, or
  instrumentality of the Federal Government such information as the Council
  may require to carry out the purposes of this title, and each such officer,
  department, agency, establishment, or instrumentality is authorized and
  directed to furnish, to the extent permitted by law, such information,
  suggestions, estimates, and statistics, directly to the Council, upon
  request made by the Chairperson of the Council.
  (2) Upon the request of the Council, the head of any Federal department,
  agency, or instrumentality is authorized to make any of the facilities
  and services of such department, agency, or instrumentality available to
  the Council and detail any of the personnel of such department, agency,
  or instrumentality to the Council, on a nonreimbursable basis, to assist
  the Council in carrying out its duties under this title.
  (3) The Council may use the United States mails in the same manner and
  under the same conditions as departments and agencies of the United States.
  (g) NO INFRINGEMENT ON TRIBAL AUTHORITY- The creation of the Council is
  not intended to, nor shall it, restrict, preempt or infringe the right of
  any California Indian tribe to interact or communicate with Congress or
  other branches of the Federal Government on a government-to-government basis.
SEC. 8. TERMINATION.
  The Council shall cease to exist on the date that is 180 days after the date
  on which the Council submits the report required under section 5(6). All
  records, documents, and materials of the Council shall be transferred to
  the National Archives and Records Administration on the date on which the
  Council ceases to exist.
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated $700,000 to carry out the
  provisions of this Act. Such sums shall remain available, without fiscal
  year limitation, until expended.
Amend the title so as to read: `An Act to establish the Advisory Council on
California Indian Policy, and for other purposes.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.