 
--H.R.6050--
H.R.6050
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To facilitate recovery from recent disasters by providing greater flexibility
for deposi-
tory institutions and their regulators, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Depository Institutions Disaster Relief Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. APPRAISAL REQUIREMENTS.
  Title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
  Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3331 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new section:
`SEC. 1123. EMERGENCY EXCEPTIONS FOR DISASTER AREAS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Each Federal financial institutions regulatory agency may,
  by regulation or order, make exceptions to this title, and to standards
  prescribed pursuant to this title, for transactions involving institutions
  for which the agency is the primary Federal regulator with respect to real
  property located within a disaster area if the agency--
  `(1) makes the exception not later than 30 months after the date on which
  the President determines, pursuant to section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford
  Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, that a major disaster exists
  in the area; and
  `(2) determines that the exception--
  `(A) would facilitate recovery from the major disaster; and
  `(B) is consistent with safety and soundness.
  `(b) 3-YEAR LIMIT ON EXCEPTIONS- Any exception made under this section
  shall expire not later than 3 years after the date of the determination
  referred to in subsection (a)(1).
  `(c) PUBLICATION REQUIRED- Any Federal financial institutions regulatory
  agency shall publish in the Federal Register a statement that--
  `(1) describes any exception made under this section; and
  `(2) explains how the exception--
  `(A) would facilitate recovery from the major disaster; and
  `(B) is consistent with safety and soundness.
  `(d) DISASTER AREA DEFINED- For purposes of this section, the term `disaster
  area' means an area in which the President, pursuant to section 401 of
  the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act,
  has determined that a major disaster exists.'.
SEC. 3. TRUTH IN LENDING ACT; EXPEDITED FUNDS AVAILABILITY ACT.
  (a) TRUTH IN LENDING ACT- During the 180-day period beginning on the date
  of enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
  System may make exceptions to the Truth in Lending Act for transactions
  within an area in which the President, pursuant to section 401 of the Robert
  T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, has determined
  that a major disaster exists, if the Board determines that the exception
  can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh
  possible adverse effects.
  (b) EXPEDITED FUNDS AVAILABILITY ACT- During the 180-day period beginning
  on the date of enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal
  Reserve System may make exceptions to the Expedited Funds Availability Act
  for depository institution offices located within an area referred to in
  subsection (a) of this section if the Board determines that the exception
  can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh
  possible adverse effects.
  (c) TIME LIMIT ON EXCEPTIONS- Any exception made under this section shall
  expire not later than the earlier of--
  (1) 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act; or
  (2) 1 year after the date of the Presidential determination referred to
  in subsection (a).
  (d) PUBLICATION REQUIRED- The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
  System shall publish in the Federal Register a statement that--
  (1) describes any exception made under this section; and
  (2) explains how the exception can reasonably be expected to produce
  benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects.
SEC. 4. DEPOSIT OF INSURANCE PROCEEDS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The appropriate Federal banking agency may, by order,
  permit an insured depository institution, during the 18-month period
  beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, to subtract from the
  institution's total assets, in calculating compliance with the leverage
  limit prescribed under section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act,
  an amount not exceeding the qualifying amount attributable to insurance
  proceeds, if the agency determines that--
  (1) the institution--
  (A) had its principal place of business within an area in which the
  President, pursuant to section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
  and Emergency Assistance Act, has determined that a major disaster exists,
  on the day before the date of that determination;
  (B) derives more than 60 percent of its total deposits from persons who
  normally reside within, or whose principal place of business is normally
  within, areas of intense devastation caused by the major disaster (such
  as that portion of Dade County, Florida, south of Kendall Drive and east
  of Everglades National Park, as damaged by Hurricane Andrew);
  (C) was adequately capitalized (as defined in section 38 of the Federal
  Deposit Insurance Act) before the major disaster; and
  (D) has an acceptable plan for managing the increase in its total assets
  and total deposits; and
  (2) the subtraction is consistent with the purpose of section 38 of the
  Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  (b) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
  (1) APPROPRIATE FEDERAL BANKING AGENCY- The term `appropriate Federal
  banking agency' has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Act.
  (2) INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTION- The term `insured depository institution'
  has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  (3) LEVERAGE LIMIT- The term `leverage limit' has the same meaning as in
  section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
  (4) QUALIFYING AMOUNT ATTRIBUTABLE TO INSURANCE PROCEEDS- The term
  `qualifying amount attributable to insurance proceeds' means the amount
  (if any) by which the institution's total assets exceed the institution's
  average total assets during the calendar quarter ending before the date
  of the Presidential determination referred to in subsection (a)(1)(A),
  because of the deposit of insurance payments or governmental assistance
  made with respect to damage caused by, or other costs resulting from,
  the major disaster.
SEC. 5. BANKING AGENCY PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- During the 180-day period beginning on the date of enactment
  of this Act, a qualifying regulatory agency may take any of the following
  actions with respect to depository institutions or other regulated entities
  whose principal place of business is within, or with respect to transactions
  or activities within, an area in which the President, pursuant to section
  401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act,
  has determined that a major disaster exists, if the agency determines that
  the action would facilitate recovery from the major disaster:
  (1) PROCEDURE- Exercising the agency's authority under provisions of law
  other than this section without complying with--
  (A) any requirement of section 553 of title 5, United States Code; or
  (B) any provision of law that requires notice or opportunity for hearing
  or sets maximum or minimum time limits with respect to agency action.
  (2) PUBLICATION REQUIREMENTS- Making exceptions, with respect to institutions
  or other entities for which the agency is the primary Federal regulator, to--
  (A) any publication requirement with respect to establishing branches or
  other deposit-taking facilities; or
  (B) any similar publication requirement.
  (b) PUBLICATION REQUIRED- A qualifying regulatory agency shall publish in
  the Federal Register a statement that--
  (1) describes any action taken under this section; and
  (2) explains the need for the action.
  (c) QUALIFYING REGULATORY AGENCY DEFINED- For purposes of this section,
  the term `qualifying regulatory agency' means--
  (1) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System;
  (2) the Comptroller of the Currency;
  (3) the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision;
  (4) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
  (5) the Financial Institutions Examination Council;
  (6) the National Credit Union Administration; and
  (7) with respect to chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, the
  Secretary of the Treasury.
SEC. 6. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF BANKS.
  (a) NATIONAL BANKS- Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `Eleventh. To make investments designed primarily to promote the public
  welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income communities or
  families (such as by providing housing, services, or jobs). A national
  banking association may make such investments directly or by purchasing
  interests in an entity primarily engaged in making such investments. An
  association shall not make any such investment if the investment would
  expose the association to unlimited liability. The Comptroller of the
  Currency shall limit an association's investments in any 1 project and an
  association's aggregate investments under this paragraph. An association's
  aggregate investments under this paragraph shall not exceed an amount equal
  to the sum of 5 percent of the association's capital stock actually paid in
  and unimpaired and 5 percent of the association's unimpaired surplus fund,
  unless the Comptroller determines by order that the higher amount will
  pose no significant risk to the affected deposit insurance fund, and the
  association is adequately capitalized. In no case shall an association's
  aggregate investments under this paragraph exceed an amount equal to the
  sum of 10 percent of the association's capital stock actually paid in and
  unimpaired and 10 percent of the association's unimpaired surplus fund.'.
  (b) STATE MEMBER BANKS- Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
  U.S.C. 321-338) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `State member banks may make investments designed primarily to promote
  the public welfare, including the welfare of low- and moderate-income
  communities or families (such as by providing housing, services, or jobs),
  to the extent permissible under State law, and subject to such restrictions
  and requirements as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may
  prescribe by regulation or order. A bank shall not make any such investment
  if the investment would expose the bank to unlimited liability. The Board
  shall limit a bank's investments in any 1 project and bank's aggregate
  investments under this paragraph. A bank's aggregate investments under this
  paragraph shall not exceed an amount equal to the sum of 5 percent of the
  bank's capital stock actually paid in and unimpaired and 5 percent of the
  bank's unimpaired surplus fund, unless the Board determines by order that
  the higher amount will pose no significant risk to the affected deposit
  insurance fund, and the bank is adequately capitalized. In no case shall
  a bank's aggregate investments under this paragraph exceed an amount equal
  to the sum of 10 percent of the bank's capital stock actually paid in and
  unimpaired and 10 percent of the bank's unimpaired surplus fund.'.
SEC. 7. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the Board of Governors of the Federal
  Reserve System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Director of the
  Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
  and the National Credit Union Administration should encourage depository
  institutions in areas affected by such major disasters as Hurricane Andrew,
  Hurricane Iniki, and the Los Angeles civil unrest to meet the financial
  services needs of their communities.
SEC. 8. OTHER AUTHORITY NOT AFFECTED.
  Nothing in this Act limits the authority of any department or agency under
  any other provision of law.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.