 
--H.R.1316--
H.R.1316
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend chapter 54 of title 5, United States Code, to extend and improve the
Performance Management and Recognition System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Performance Management and Recognition System
 Amendments of 1991'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS.
 (a) STATEMENT OF WORK OBJECTIVES- Section 4302a of title 5, United States
 Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(h) Notwithstanding subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2)-(4), an agency performance
 appraisal system may utilize a written statement of the work objectives of
 the employee's position to establish performance requirements related to
 the position and to evaluate job performance against such requirements. Such
 statement of work objectives shall be jointly developed by the supervising
 official and the employee, and may be used in lieu of, or in addition to,
 critical elements and performance standards.'.
 (b) PERFORMANCE AWARDS- Section 5406 of title 5, United States Code,
 is amended--
 (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the following:
 `(a) Any employee who is covered by this chapter, and whose performance for
 an appraisal period is rated under section 4302a (or an equivalent rating
 system) at the fully successful level or higher may be paid a performance
 award for such period.
 `(b) The amount of a performance award under this section shall be determined
 by the appropriate agency head, except that any such award shall not be
 more than 10 percent of the employee's annual rate of basic pay, unless
 the agency head determines that a higher amount is warranted by unusually
 outstanding performance, in which case an award of not to exceed 20 percent
 of the employee's annual rate of basic pay may be paid.';
 (2) in subsection (c)(1) by striking `Subject to subsections (a)(2) and
 (b)(2) of this section, the' and inserting `The';
 (3) by amending subsection (c)(2)(A)(i) to read as follows:
 `(2)(A)(i) The applicable minimum percentage for each fiscal year during
 which this chapter is in effect shall be 1.15 percent.'; and
 (4) by striking subsection (c)(3).
 (c) PROGRAM EXTENSION- Section 5410 of title 5, United States Code, is
 amended by striking `March 31, 1991' and inserting `September 30, 1993'.
 (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall be effective
 as of April 1, 1991.
SEC. 3. STUDY AND REPORT.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF REVIEW COMMITTEE- The Office of Personnel Management
 shall establish a Performance Management and Recognition System Review
 Committee to review the Performance Management and Recognition System
 (established under chapter 54 of title 5, United States Code) and advise
 the Office on any improvements needed in that system.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- (1) The Committee shall consist of such members as the
 Office considers appropriate, including representatives of organizations that
 include in their membership employees who are covered under the Performance
 Management and Recognition System, and representatives of agencies employing
 such employees.
 (2) The Chairman of the Committee shall be appointed by the Director of
 the Office, and may be paid (except as provided by the first sentence of
 paragraph (3)) at a rate determined by the Director, not to exceed the
 maximum rate of basic pay for the Senior Executive Service.
 (3) The members of the Committee who are otherwise employees of the Federal
 Government (including the Chairman, if applicable) shall not receive any
 additional pay for their service on the Committee. Members of the Committee
 who are not otherwise employees of the Government (other than the Chairman,
 if applicable) shall not be paid for their service on the Committee and
 shall not be considered employees of the Federal Government for any purpose
 by reason of their service on the Committee.
 (c) STAFF AND ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT- The Office may provide staff and
 administrative support for the Committee.
 (d) COORDINATION- In carrying out its responsibilities under this section, the
 Committee shall coordinate its efforts with those of the Pay-for-Performance
 Labor-Management Committee (established under section 111 of the Federal
 Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990) to the extent those committees
 consider appropriate.
 (e) REPORT- The Committee shall submit a report with its recommendations
 to the Director of the Office on November 5, 1991, or such other date as
 the Director may determine.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.