 
--H.R.2763--
H.R.2763
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To enhance geologic mapping of the United States, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Geologic Mapping Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds and declares that--
 (1) during the past 2 decades, the production of geologic maps has been
 drastically curtailed;
 (2) geologic maps are the primary data base for virtually all applied and
 basic earth-science investigations, including--
 (A) exploration for and development of mineral, energy, and water resources;
 (B) screening and characterizing sites for toxic and nuclear waste disposal;
 (C) land use evaluation and planning for environmental protection;
 (D) earthquake hazards reduction;
 (E) predicting volcanic hazards;
 (F) design and construction of infrastructure requirements such as utility
 lifelines, transportation corridors, and surface-water impoundments;
 (G) reducing losses from landslides and other ground failures;
 (H) mitigating effects of coastal and stream erosion;
 (I) siting of critical facilities; and
 (J) basic earth-science research;
 (3) Federal agencies, State and local governments, private industry, and
 the general public depend on the information provided by geologic maps to
 determine the extent of potential environmental damage before embarking
 on projects that could lead to preventable, costly environmental problems
 or litigation;
 (4) the combined capabilities of State, Federal, and academic groups to
 provide geologic mapping are not sufficient to meet the present and future
 needs of the United States for national security, environmental protection,
 and energy self-sufficiency of the Nation;
 (5) States are willing to contribute 50 percent of the funding necessary
 to complete the mapping of the geology within the State;
 (6) the lack of proper geologic maps has led to the poor design of such
 structures as dams and waste-disposal facilities;
 (7) geologic maps have proven indispensable in the search for needed
 fossil-fuel and mineral resources; and
 (8) a comprehensive nationwide program of geologic mapping is required in
 order to systematically build the Nation's geologic-map data base at a pace
 that responds to increasing demand.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to expedite the production of a
 geologic-map data base for the Nation, to be located within the United States
 Geological Survey, which can be applied to land-use management, assessment,
 and utilization, conservation of natural resources, groundwater management,
 and environmental protection.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act:
 (1) The term `advisory committee' means the advisory committee established
 under section 5.
 (2) The term `Director' means the Director of the United States Geological
 Survey.
 (3) The term `geologic mapping program' means the National Cooperative
 Geologic Mapping Program established by section 4(a).
 (4) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (5) The term `Survey' means the United States Geological Survey.
SEC. 4. GEOLOGIC MAPPING PROGRAM.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the United States Geological
 Survey a National Cooperative Geologic Mapping Program. The geologic mapping
 program shall be developed in consultation with the advisory committee and
 shall be designed and administered to achieve the objectives set forth in
 subsection (c).
 (b) RESPONSIBILITIES OF USGS- (1) The Survey shall be the lead Federal
 agency responsible for planning, developing priorities, coordinating,
 and managing the geologic mapping program. In carrying out this paragraph,
 the Secretary, acting through the Director, shall--
 (A) develop a geologic mapping program implementation plan in accordance
 with section 6, which plan shall be submitted to the Committee on Interior
 and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on
 Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate within 300 days after the date
 of enactment of this Act;
 (B) appoint, with the advice and consultation of the State geological surveys,
 the advisory committee within 90 days after the date of enactment of this
 Act in accordance with section 5; and
 (C) within 210 days after the date of enactment of this Act, submit
 a report to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United
 States Senate and to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 House of Representatives identifying--
 (i) how the Survey will coordinate the development and implementation of
 the geologic mapping program;
 (ii) how the Survey will establish goals, mapping priorities, and target
 dates for implementation of the geologic mapping program;
 (iii) how long-term staffing plans for the various components of the
 geologic mapping program will lead to successful implementation of the
 geologic mapping program; and
 (iv) the degree to which geologic mapping activities traditionally funded by
 the Survey, including the use of commercially available aerial photography,
 geodesy, professional land surveying, photogrammetric mapping, cartography,
 photographic processing, and related services, can be contracted to
 professional private mapping firms.
 (2) In addition to paragraph (1), the Secretary, acting through the Director,
 shall be responsible for developing, as soon as practicable--
 (A) in cooperation with the State geological surveys, other Federal and
 State agencies, public and private sector organizations and academia,
 the geologic-map data base; and
 (B) maps and mapping techniques which achieve the objectives specified in
 subsection (c).
 (c) PROGRAM OBJECTIVES- The objectives of the geologic mapping program
 shall include--
 (1) determining  the Nation's geologic framework through systematic
 development of geologic maps at scales appropriate to the geologic setting
 and the perceived applications, such maps to be contributed to the national
 geologic map data base;
 (2) development of a complementary national geophysical-map data base,
 geochemical-map data base, and a geochronologic and paleontologic data base
 that provide value-added descriptive and interpretive information to the
 geologic-map data base;
 (3) application of cost-effective mapping techniques that assemble, produce,
 translate and disseminate geologic-map information and that render such
 information of greater application and benefit to the public; and
 (4) development of public awareness for the role and application of
 geologic-map information to the resolution of national issues of land
 use management.
 (d) PROGRAM COMPONENTS- The geologic mapping program shall include the
 following components:
 (1) A Federal geologic mapping component, whose objective shall be determining
 the geologic framework of areas determined to be vital to the economic,
 social, or scientific welfare of the Nation. Mapping priorities shall be
 based on--
 (A) national requirements for geologic-map information in areas of
 multiple-issue need or areas of compelling single-issue need; and
 (B) national requirements for geologic-map information in areas where
 mapping is required to solve critical earth-science problems.
 (2) A geologic mapping support component, whose objective shall be
 providing interdisciplinary support for the Federal Geologic Mapping
 Component. Representative categories of interdisciplinary support shall
 include--
 (A) establishment of a national geologic-map data base, established pursuant
 to section 7;
 (B) studies that lead to the implementation of cost-effective digital methods
 for the acquisition, compilation, analysis, cartographic production, and
 dissemination of geologic-map information;
 (C) paleontologic investigations that provide information critical to
 understanding the age and depositional environment of fossil-bearing
 geologic-map units, which investigations shall be contributed to a national
 paleontologic data base;
 (D) geochronologic and isotopic investigations that (i) provide radiometric
 age dates for geologic-map units and (ii) fingerprint the geothermometry,
 geobarometry, and alteration history of geologic-map units, which
 investigations shall be contributed to a national geochronologic data base;
 (E) geophysical investigations that assist in delineating and mapping the
 physical characteristics and three-dimensional distribution of geologic
 materials and geologic structures, which investigations shall be contributed
 to a national geophysical-map data base; and
 (F) geochemical investigations and analytical operations that characterize
 the major- and minor-element composition of geologic-map units, and that
 lead to the recognition of stable and anomalous geochemical signatures for
 geologic terrains, which investigations shall be contributed to a national
 geochemical-map data base.
 (3) A State geologic mapping component, whose objective shall be determining
 the geologic framework of areas that the State geological surveys determine
 to be vital to the economic, social, or scientific welfare of individual
 States. Mapping priorities shall be determined by multirepresentational
 State panels and shall be integrated with national priorities. Federal
 funding for the State component shall be matched on a one-to-one basis with
 non-Federal funds.
 (4) A geologic mapping education component, whose objective shall be--
 (A) to develop the academic programs that teach earth-science students the
 fundamental principles of geologic mapping and field analysis; and
 (B) to provide for broad education in geologic mapping and field analysis
 through support of field teaching institutes.
Investigations conducted under the geologic mapping education component
shall be integrated with the other mapping components of the geologic mapping
program, and shall respond to priorities identified for those components.
SEC. 5. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There shall be established a sixteen member geologic
 mapping advisory committee to advise the Director on planning and
 implementation of the geologic mapping program. The President shall
 appoint one representative each from the Environmental Protection Agency,
 the Department of Energy, the Department of Agriculture, and the Office
 of Science and Technology Policy. Within 90 days and with the advice and
 consultation of the State Geological Surveys, the Secretary shall appoint
 to the advisory committee 2 representatives from the Survey (including the
 Chief Geologist, as Chairman), 4 representatives from the State geological
 surveys, 3 representatives from academia, and 3 representatives from the
 private sector.
 (b) DUTIES- The advisory committee shall--
 (1) review and critique the draft implementation plan prepared by the
 Director pursuant to section 6;
 (2) review the scientific progress of the geologic mapping program; and
 (3) submit an annual report to the Secretary that evaluates the progress
 of the Federal and State mapping activities and evaluates the progress made
 toward fulfilling the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 6. GEOLOGIC MAPPING PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION PLAN.
 The Secretary, acting through the Director, shall, with the advice and review
 of the advisory committee, prepare an implementation plan for the geologic
 mapping program. The plan shall identify the overall management structure
 and operation of the geologic mapping program and shall provide for--
 (1) the role of the Survey in its capacity as overall management lead,
 including the responsibility for developing the national geologic mapping
 program that meets Federal needs while simultaneously fostering State needs;
 (2) the responsibilities accruing to the State geological surveys, with
 particular emphasis on mechanisms that incorporate their needs, missions,
 capabilities, and requirements into the nationwide geologic mapping program;
 (3) mechanisms for identifying short- and long-term priorities for each
 component of the geologic mapping program, including--
 (A) for the Federal geologic mapping component, a priority-setting mechanism
 that responds both to (i) Federal mission requirements for geologic-map
 information, and (ii) critical scientific problems that require geologic-map
 control for their resolution;
 (B) for the geologic mapping support component, a strong interdisciplinary
 research program plan in isotopic and paleontologic geochronology, geophysical
 mapping, and process studies to provide data to and interpret results from
 geologic mapping;
 (C) for the State geologic mapping component, a priority-setting mechanism
 that responds to (i) specific intrastate needs for geologic-map information,
 and (ii) interstate needs shared by adjacent entities that have common
 requirements; and
 (D) for the geologic mapping education component, a priority-setting mechanism
 that responds to requirements for geologic-map information that are driven
 by Federal and State mission requirements;
 (4) a description of the degree to which the Survey can acquire, archive,
 and use Side-Looking Airborne Radar (SLAR) or Interferometric Synthetic
 Aperture Radar (IFSAR) data in a manner that is technically appropriate
 for geologic or related mapping studies;
 (5) a mechanism for adopting scientific and technical map standards for
 preparing and publishing general-purpose and special-purpose geologic maps
 to (A) assure uniformity of cartographic and scientific conventions, and
 (B) provide a basis for judgment as to the comparability and quality of
 map products; and
 (6) a mechanism for monitoring the inventory of published and current mapping
 investigations nationwide in order to facilitate planning and information
 exchange and to avoid redundancy.
SEC. 7. NATIONAL GEOLOGIC-MAP DATA BASE.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Survey shall establish a national geologic-map data
 base. Such data base shall be a national archive that includes all maps
 developed pursuant to this Act, the data bases developed pursuant to the
 investigations under sections (4)(d)(2) (C), (D), (E), and (F), and other
 maps and data as the Survey deems appropriate.
 (b) STANDARDIZATION- Geologic maps contributed to the national archives
 should have standardized format, symbols, and technical attributes so that
 archival information can be assimilated, manipulated, accessed, exchanged,
 and compared efficiently and accurately.
SEC. 8. ANNUAL REPORT.
 The Secretary shall, within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, submit
 an annual report to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the Senate describing the status of the nationwide geologic mapping program,
 and describing and evaluating progress achieved during the preceding fiscal
 year in developing the national geologic-map data base. Each report shall
 include any recommendations for legislative or other action as the Secretary
 deems necessary and appropriate to fulfill the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act the following:
 (1) For Federal mapping activities under this Act, $12,500,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, $14,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $16,000,000 for fiscal year
 1995, and $18,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
 (2) For Federal support activities under this Act, $9,500,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $10,500,000 for fiscal year
 1995, and $11,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
 (3) For State mapping activities under this Act, $15,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993, $18,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, $21,000,000 for fiscal year 1995,
 and $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
 (4) For educational support activities under this Act, $500,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, $750,000 for fiscal year 1994, $1,000,000 for fiscal year 1995,
 and $1,500,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 10. UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY AND UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES.
 (a) UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY- The Geological Survey established
 by the Act of March 3, 1879 (43 U.S.C. 31(a)), is designated as and shall
 hereafter be known as the United States Geological Survey.
 (b) UNITED STATES BUREAU OF MINES- The Bureau of Mines established by the
 Act of May 16, 1910 (30 U.S.C. 1), is designated as and shall hereafter be
 known as the United States Bureau of Mines.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.