 
--H.R.5739--
H.R.5739
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To reauthorize the Export-Import Bank of the United States.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Export Enhancement Act
  of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
TITLE I--REAUTHORIZATION OF EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
Sec. 101. Declaration of policy.
Sec. 102. Extension of authority.
Sec. 103. Tied aid credit fund extension.
Sec. 104. Use of loan guarantees.
Sec. 105. Expanded use of loan guarantees.
Sec. 106. Environmental policy.
Sec. 107. Insurance-related business stemming from Bank activities.
Sec. 108. Debt reduction; enterprise for the Americas initiative.
Sec. 109. Increase in aggregate loan, guarantee, and insurance authority.
Sec. 110. Limitation on financing for certain countries.
Sec. 111. Conditional allowance of assistance for exports to Angola.
Sec. 112. Financing of sales of defense articles or services.
Sec. 113. Increase in advisory committee membership.
Sec. 114. Financing of high technology exports to emerging democracies.
Sec. 115. Cooperation on export financing programs.
Sec. 116. Assistance for exports by small businesses.
Sec. 117. Compensation of employees.
Sec. 118. Report on regional offices.
Sec. 119. Report on financing of services.
Sec. 120. Report on demand for trade finance for the Baltic States, the
independent states of the former Soviet Union, and Central and Eastern Europe.
Sec. 121. Elimination of outdated provisions.
TITLE II--EXPORT PROMOTION
Sec. 201. Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee.
Sec. 202. One-stop shops.
Sec. 203. Commercial Service cooperation in Federal financing and insurance
programs.
Sec. 204. Environmental trade promotion.
Sec. 205. Rank of Commercial Service officers.
Sec. 206. Report on export policy.
Sec. 207. Provisional repeal of amendments.
Sec. 208. Export promotion authorization.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 301. John Heinz Competitive Excellence Award.
TITLE I--REAUTHORIZATION OF EXPORT-IMPORT BANK
SEC. 101. DECLARATION OF POLICY.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) as the world's largest economy, the United States has an enormous
  stake in the future of the global trading system;
  (2) exports are a crucial force driving the United States economy;
  (3) during 1991, the value of United States exports increased by 7.1
  percent from the 1990 level to $421,600,000,000, supporting more than
  7,000,000 full-time United States jobs, and affecting the lives of all of
  the people of the United States;
  (4) exports also support the global strategic position of the United States;
  (5) a significant part of a country's influence is drawn from the reputation
  of its goods, its industrial connections with other countries, and the
  capital it has available for investment, and trade finance is a critical
  component of this equation;
  (6) the growth in United States exports has increased the demand for
  financing from the Export-Import Bank of the United States;
  (7) during 1991, the value of exports assisted by the Export-Import Bank
  rose 28.7 percent, from $9,700,000,000 to $12,100,000,000, the highest
  level since 1981;
  (8) the Export-Import Bank used its entire budget authority provided
  for 1991, and still could not meet all of the demand for its financing
  assistance; and
  (9) accordingly, the charter of the Export-Import Bank, which is scheduled
  to expire on September 30, 1992, must be renewed in order that the Bank
  continue to arrange competitive and innovative financing for the foreign
  sales of United States exporters.
SEC. 102. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
  Section 8 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635f) is amended
  by striking `1992' and inserting `1997'.
SEC. 103. TIED AID CREDIT FUND EXTENSION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 15(c)(2) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(c)(2)) is amended by striking `fiscal year 1992' and
  inserting `September 30, 1995'.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 15(e) of the Export-Import
  Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635i-3(e)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(e) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund
  $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995. Such sums are
  authorized to remain available until expended.'.
  (c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 15 of the Export-Import
  Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635i-3) is amended--
  (1) by striking `predacious' each place such term appears and inserting
  `predatory';
  (2) in subsection (a)(5)--
  (A) by striking `temporary'; and
  (B) by striking `existing arrangement' and inserting `existing Arrangement';
  (3) in subsection (b)(1)--
  (A) by striking `To carry out the purposes of subsection (a)(5), the'
  and inserting `The';
  (B) in subparagraph (A), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
  `and with special attention to matching tied aid and partially untied aid
  credits extended by other governments--
  `(i) in violation of the Arrangement; or
  `(ii) in cases in which the Bank determines that United States trade or
  economic interests justify the matching of tied aid credits extended in
  compliance with the Arrangement, including grandfathered cases'; and
  (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking `partially untied aid credits; and'
  and all that follows through the end of clause (ii), and inserting the
  following: `partially untied aid credits, and impedes negotiations or
  violates agreements on tied aid to eliminate the use of such credits for
  commercial purposes; or
  `(ii) engages in predatory financing practices that seek to circumvent
  international agreements on tied aid; or';
  (4) in subsection (b)(2)(A), by striking `of the Treasury';
  (5) in subsection (b)(2)(B), by striking `private financial institutions
  or entities' and inserting `United States exporters and private financial
  institutions or entities, and in consultation with other Federal agencies';
  (6) in subsection (b)(4), by adding at the end the following: `The Bank
  shall also request and take into consideration the views of the private
  sector on principal sectors and key markets of countries described in
  paragraph (1)(B).';
  (7) by amending paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (g) to read as follows:
  `(1) IN GENERAL- On or before October 15, 1992, and every 6 months
  thereafter, the Bank, in consultation with the Secretary, shall submit
  a report on tied aid credits to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
  Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and
  Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives.
  `(2) CONTENTS OF REPORTS- Each report required under paragraph (1) shall
  contain a description of--
  `(A) the implementation of the Arrangement restricting tied aid and
  partially untied aid credits for commercial purposes, including the
  operation of notification and consultation procedures;
  `(B) all principal offers of tied aid credit financing by foreign countries
  during the previous 6-month period, including all offers notified by
  countries participating in the Arrangement, and in particular--
  `(i) offers grandfathered under the Arrangement; and
  `(ii) notifications of exceptions under the Arrangement;
  `(C) any use by the Bank of the Tied Aid Credit Fund to match specific
  offers, including those that are grandfathered or exceptions under the
  Arrangement; and
  `(D) other actions by the United States Government to combat predatory
  financing practices by foreign governments, including additional negotiations
  among participating governments in the Arrangement.'; and
  (8) in subsection (h)--
  (A) by striking `For the purpose of this section--' and inserting `For
  purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(6) OFFERS GRANDFATHERED UNDER THE ARRANGEMENT- The term `offers
  grandfathered under the Arrangement' means--
  `(A) financing offers made or lines of credit extended on or before February
  15, 1992; or
  `(B) financing offers extended for subloans under lines of credit referred
  to in subparagraph (A) made on or before August 15, 1992, or, in the case
  of Mexico, on or before December 31, 1992.'.
SEC. 104. USE OF LOAN GUARANTEES.
  Section 2(b)(1)(B) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
  U.S.C. 635(b)(1)(B)) is amended in the fifth sentence by inserting after the
  first semicolon the following: `that the Bank, in determining whether to
  provide support for a transaction under the loan, guarantee, or insurance
  program, or any combination thereof, shall consider the need to involve
  private capital in support of United States exports as well as the cost
  of the transaction as calculated in accordance with the requirements of
  the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990;'.
SEC. 105. EXPANDED USE OF LOAN GUARANTEES.
  Section 2(c)(3) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(c)(3))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `With' and inserting the following:
  `(A) IN GENERAL- With'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(B) GUARANTEE COVERAGE- For the guarantee program provided for in
  this subsection, the Bank may provide up to 100 percent coverage of the
  interest and principal if the Board of Directors determines such coverage
  to be necessary to ensure acceptance of Bank guarantees by financial
  institutions for any transaction in any export market in which the Bank
  is open for business.'.
SEC. 106. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY.
  The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 17.  ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
  `(a) ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS CONSIDERATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Consistent with the objectives of section 2(b)(1)(A),
  the Bank shall establish procedures to take into account the potential
  beneficial and adverse environmental effects of goods and services for which
  support is requested under its direct lending and guarantee programs. Such
  procedures shall apply to any transaction involving a project--
  `(A) for which long-term support of $10,000,000 or more is requested from
  the Bank;
  `(B) for which the Bank's support would be critical to its implementation;
  and
  `(C) which may have significant environmental effects upon the global
  commons or any country not participating in the project, or may produce
  an emission, an effluent, or a principal product that is prohibited or
  strictly regulated pursuant to Federal environmental law.
  `(2) AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD FINANCING- The procedures established under
  paragraph (1) shall permit the Board of Directors, in its judgment, to
  withhold financing from a project for environmental reasons or to approve
  financing after considering the potential environmental effects of a project.
  `(b) USE OF BANK PROGRAMS TO ENCOURAGE CERTAIN EXPORTS- The Bank shall
  encourage the use of its programs to support the export of goods and services
  that have beneficial effects on the environment or mitigate potential adverse
  environmental effects. The Board of Directors shall name an officer of the
  Bank to advise the Board on ways that the Bank's programs can be used to
  support the export of such goods and services. The officer shall act as
  liaison between the Bank and other Federal Government agencies, including
  the agencies whose representatives are members of the Environmental Trade
  Promotion Working Group of the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee,
  with respect to overall United States Government policy on the environment.
  `(c) INCLUSION IN REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Bank shall provide in its annual
  report to the Congress a summary of its activities under subsections (a)
  and (b).
  `(d) INTERPRETATION- Nothing in this section shall be construed to create
  any cause of action.'.
SEC. 107. INSURANCE-RELATED BUSINESS STEMMING FROM BANK ACTIVITIES.
  Section 2(d) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(d)) is
  amended by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) and inserting after paragraph
  (1) the following:
  `(2) COMPETITIVE OPPORTUNITY FOR INSURANCE COMPANIES- In the case of any
  long-term loan or guarantee of not less than $10,000,000, the Bank shall
  seek to ensure that United States insurance companies are accorded a fair
  and open competitive opportunity to provide insurance against risk of
  loss in connection with any transaction with respect to which such loan
  or guarantee is provided.
  `(3) RESPONSIVE ACTIONS- If the Bank becomes aware that a fair and open
  competitive opportunity is not accorded to any United States insurance
  company in a foreign country with respect to which the Bank is considering
  a loan or guarantee, the Bank--
  `(A) may approve or deny the loan or guarantee after considering whether
  such action would be likely to achieve competitive access for United States
  insurance companies; and
  `(B) shall forward information regarding any foreign country that denies
  United States insurance companies a fair and open competitive opportunity
  to the Secretary of Commerce and to the United States Trade Representative
  for consideration of a recommendation to the President that access by such
  country to export credit of the United States should be restricted.
  `(4) NOTICE OF APPROVAL- If the Bank approves a loan or guarantee with
  respect to a foreign country notwithstanding information regarding denial
  by that foreign country of competitive opportunities for United States
  insurance companies, the Bank shall include notice of such approval and
  the reason for such approval in the report on competition in officially
  supported export credit required under subsection (b)(1)(A).
  `(5) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  `(A) the term `United States insurance company'--
  `(i) includes an individual, partnership, corporation, holding company,
  or other legal entity which is authorized (or in the case of a holding
  company, subsidiaries of which are authorized) by a State to engage in the
  business of issuing insurance contracts or reinsuring the risk underwritten
  by insurance companies; and
  `(ii) includes foreign operations, branches, agencies, subsidiaries,
  affiliates, or joint ventures of any entity described in clause (i); and
  `(B) the term `fair and open competitive opportunity' means, with respect
  to the provision of insurance by a United States insurance company, that
  the company--
  `(i) has received notice of the opportunity to provide such insurance; and
  `(ii) has been evaluated for such opportunity on a nondiscriminatory basis.'.
SEC. 108. DEBT REDUCTION; ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE.
  The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 18. DEBT REDUCTION; ENTERPRISE FOR THE AMERICAS INITIATIVE.
  `(a) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `eligible country' means a country designated by the President
  in accordance with section (b);
  `(2) the term `Facility' means the entity established in the Department
  of the Treasury by section 601 of the Agricultural Trade Development and
  Assistance Act of 1954; and
  `(3) the term `IMF' means the International Monetary Fund.
  `(b) ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS UNDER THE FACILITY-
  `(1) REQUIREMENTS- To be eligible for benefits from the Facility under
  this section, a country must--
  `(A) be a Latin American or Caribbean country;
  `(B) have in effect, have received approval for, or, as appropriate in
  exceptional circumstances, be making significant progress toward--
  `(i) an IMF standby arrangement, extended IMF arrangement, or an arrangement
  under the structural adjustment facility or enhanced structural adjustment
  facility or, in exceptional circumstances, an IMF monitored program or
  its equivalent; and
  `(ii) as appropriate, structural or sectoral adjustment loans from the
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development or the International
  Development Association;
  `(C) have put in place major investment reforms in conjunction with an
  Inter-American Development Bank loan or otherwise be implementing, or
  making significant progress toward, an open investment regime; and
  `(D) if appropriate, have agreed with its commercial bank lenders on a
  satisfactory financing program, including, as appropriate, debt or debt
  service reduction.
  `(2) ELIGIBILITY DETERMINATIONS- The President shall determine whether a
  country is an eligible country for purposes of paragraph (1).
  `(c) LOANS ELIGIBLE FOR SALE, REDUCTION, OR CANCELLATION-
  `(1) AUTHORITY TO SELL, REDUCE, OR CANCEL CERTAIN LOANS- Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, the President may, in accordance with this section,
  sell to any eligible purchaser any loan or portion thereof made before
  January 1, 1992, to any eligible country or any agency thereof pursuant to
  this Act, or, on receipt of payment from an eligible purchaser, reduce or
  cancel such loan or portion thereof, only for the purpose of facilitating--
  `(A) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature
  swaps; or
  `(B) a debt buy-back by an eligible country of its own qualified debt,
  only if the eligible country uses an additional amount of the local
  currency of the eligible country, equal to not less than 40 percent of
  the price paid for such debt by such eligible country, or the difference
  between the price paid for such debt and the face value of such debt, to
  support activities that link conservation and sustainable use of natural
  resources with local community development, and child survival and other
  child development activities, in a manner consistent with sections 607
  through 612 of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954,
if the sale, reduction, or cancellation would not contravene any term or
condition of any prior agreement relating to such loan.
  `(2) TERMS AND CONDITIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
  the President shall, in accordance with this section, establish the terms
  and conditions under which loans may be sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant
  to this section.
  `(3) TREATMENT UNDER SECURITIES LAWS- The filing of a registration statement
  under the Securities Act of 1933 shall not be required with respect to
  the sale or offer for sale by the Bank of a loan or any interest therein
  pursuant to this section. For purposes of the Securities Act of 1933,
  the Bank shall not be deemed to be an issuer or underwriter with respect
  to any subsequent sale or other disposition of such loan (or any interest
  therein) or any security received by an eligible purchaser pursuant to
  any debt-for-equity swap, debt-for-development swap, or debt-for-nature swap.
  `(4) ADMINISTRATION- The Facility shall notify the Bank of purchasers that
  the President has determined to be eligible, and shall direct the Bank to
  carry out the sale, reduction, or cancellation of a loan pursuant to this
  section. The Bank shall make an adjustment in its accounts to reflect the
  sale, reduction, or cancellation.
  `(5) LIMITATIONS- The authorities of this subsection may be exercised
  only to such extent as provided for in advance in appropriations Acts,
  as necessary to implement the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990.
  `(d) DEPOSIT OF PROCEEDS- The proceeds from the sale, reduction, or
  cancellation of any loan sold, reduced, or canceled pursuant to this
  section shall be deposited in the United States Government account or
  accounts established for the repayment of such loan.
  `(e) ELIGIBLE PURCHASERS- A loan may be sold pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(A)
  only to a purchaser who presents plans satisfactory to the President
  for using the loan for the purpose of engaging in debt-for-equity swaps,
  debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
  `(f) DEBTOR CONSULTATION- Before the sale to any eligible purchaser, or any
  reduction or cancellation pursuant to this section, of any loan made to an
  eligible country, the President shall consult with the country concerning
  the amount of loans to be sold, reduced, or canceled and their uses for
  debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps.
  `(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the sale, reduction, and
  cancellation of loans or portions thereof pursuant to this section, there
  are authorized to be appropriated to the President such sums as may be
  necessary, which are authorized to remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 109. INCREASE IN AGGREGATE LOAN, GUARANTEE, AND INSURANCE AUTHORITY.
  (a) FEES AND PREMIUMS- Section 2(c)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635(c)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(1) The Bank shall charge fees and premiums commensurate, in the judgment of
  the Bank, with risks covered in connection with the contractual liability
  that the Bank incurs for guarantees, insurance, coinsurance, and reinsurance
  against political and credit risks of loss.'.
  (b) AGGREGATE AUTHORITY- Section 7 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635e) is amended--
  (1) by striking `SEC. 7. (a)(1)' and inserting the following:
`SEC. 7. AGGREGATE LOAN, GUARANTEE, AND INSURANCE AUTHORITY.
  `(a) LIMITATION ON OUTSTANDING AMOUNTS- ';
  (2) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
  (B) by striking `$40,000,000,000' and inserting `$75,000,000,000'; and
  (3) in subsection (a)(2)--
  (A) by striking `(2)(A)(i)' and inserting the following:
  `(b) PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- ';
  (B) by striking `(I)' and inserting `(A)';
  (C) by striking `(II)' and inserting `(B)';
  (D) by striking `(III)' and inserting `(C)';
  (E) by striking `(ii) Not later than' and inserting the following:
  `(2) REPORT- Not later than';
  (F) by striking `(B)(i)' and inserting the following:
  `(3) REQUEST FOR LEGISLATION-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- '; and
  (G) by striking `(ii)' and inserting the following:
   `(B) CONTINUED AVAILABILITY OF AUTHORITY- '.
SEC. 110. LIMITATION ON FINANCING FOR CERTAIN COUNTRIES.
  Section 2(b)(2)(B) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
  U.S.C. 635(b)(2)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(B) MARXIST-LENINIST COUNTRY DEFINED-
  `(i) IN GENERAL- For purposes of this paragraph, the term `Marxist-Leninist
  country' means any country that maintains a centrally planned economy based
  on the principles of Marxism-Leninism, or is economically and militarily
  dependent on any other such country.
  `(ii) SPECIFIC COUNTRIES DEEMED TO BE MARXIST-LENINIST- Unless otherwise
  determined by the President in accordance with subparagraph (C), the
  following countries are deemed to be Marxist-Leninist countries for purposes
  of this paragraph:
  `(I) Cambodian People's Republic.
  `(II) Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
  `(III) Democratic Republic of Afghanistan.
  `(IV) Lao People's Democratic Republic.
  `(V) People's Republic of China.
  `(VI) Republic of Cuba.
  `(VII) Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
  `(VIII) Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
  `(IX) Tibet.'.
SEC. 111. CONDITIONAL ALLOWANCE OF ASSISTANCE FOR EXPORTS TO ANGOLA.
  Section 2(b) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (11) and redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph
  (11); and
  (2) in paragraph (11), as redesignated, by striking `Notwithstanding
  any determination by the President under paragraph (2) or (11), the'
  and inserting `The'.
SEC. 112. FINANCING OF SALES OF DEFENSE ARTICLES OR SERVICES.
  (a) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY- Section 2(b)(6)(B) of the Export-Import Bank
  Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)(B)) is amended--
  (1) in clause (iv), by inserting `and' at the end;
  (2) in clause (v), by striking `; and' and inserting a period; and
  (3) by striking clause (vi).
  (b) ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR NATIONAL INTEREST WAIVER- Section 2(b)(6)(D)(i)
  of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)(D)(i))
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of subclause (I);
  (2) by redesignating subclause (II) as subclause (III); and
  (3) by inserting after subclause (I) the following:
  `(II) the President determines, after consultation with the Assistant
  Secretary of State for Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs, that the
  purchasing country has complied with all restrictions imposed by the United
  States on the end use of any defense articles or services for which a
  guarantee or insurance was provided under subparagraph (B), and has not
  used any such defense articles or services to engage in a consistent
  pattern of gross violations of internationally recognized human rights; and'.
  (c) REPORT- Section 2(b)(6) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6) is amended by adding at the end the following new
  subparagraph:
  `(H) Once in each calendar quarter, the Bank shall submit a report to
  the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate,
  and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
  Representatives on all instances in which the Bank, during the reporting
  quarter, guaranteed, insured, or extended credit or participated in an
  extension of credit in connection with any credit sale of an article,
  service, or related technical data described in subparagraph (G) that
  the Bank determined would not be put to a military use. Such report shall
  include a description of each of the transactions and the justification
  for the Bank's actions.'.
  (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 2(b)(6) of the Export-Import Bank Act
  of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(6)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `designated under' and all that
  follows through the end of the subparagraph and inserting a period;
  (2) in subparagraph (B)--
  (A) by striking `, and section 32 of the Arms Export Control Act,'; and
  (B) in clause (v), by striking `and services' and inserting `or services';
  (3) in subparagraph (D)(i)(III), as redesignated by subsection (b) of this
  section, by striking `determination has' and inserting `determinations have';
  (4) in subparagraph (D)(ii), by striking `sentence' and inserting
  `clause'; and
  (5) in subparagraph (G), by striking `and services' and inserting `or
  services'.
  (e) REPEAL- Section 32 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2772)
  is repealed.
SEC. 113. INCREASE IN ADVISORY COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP.
  Section 3(d)(1)(A) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
  U.S.C. 635a(d)(1)(A)) is amended by striking `twelve' and inserting `15'.
SEC. 114. FINANCING OF HIGH TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS TO EMERGING DEMOCRACIES.
  Section 2(b)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(1))
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(H)(i) It is further the policy of the United States to foster the
  development of democratic institutions and market economies in countries
  seeking such development, and to assist the export of high technology
  items to such countries.
  `(ii) In exercising its authority, the Bank shall develop a program
  for providing guarantees and insurance with respect to the export of
  high technology items to countries making the transition to market based
  economies, including eligible East European countries (within the meaning
  of section 4 of the Support For East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989).
  `(iii) As part of the ongoing marketing and outreach efforts of the Bank,
  the Bank shall, to the maximum extent practicable, inform high technology
  companies, particularly small business concerns (as such term is defined
  in section 3 of the Small Business Act), about the programs of the Bank
  for United States companies interested in exporting high technology goods
  to countries making the transition to market based economies, including
  any eligible East European country (within the meaning of section 4 of
  the Support For East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989).
  `(iv) In carrying out clause (iii), the Bank shall--
  `(I) work with other agencies involved in export promotion and finance; and
  `(II) invite State and local governments, trade centers, commercial
  banks, and other appropriate public and private organizations to serve as
  intermediaries for the outreach efforts.'.
SEC. 115. COOPERATION ON EXPORT FINANCING PROGRAMS.
  The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 19. COOPERATION ON EXPORT FINANCING PROGRAMS.
  `The Bank shall, subject to appropriate memoranda of understanding--
  `(1) provide complete and current information on all of its programs and
  financing practices to--
  `(A) the Small Business Administration and other Federal agencies involved
  in promoting exports and marketing export financing programs; and
  `(B) State and local export financing organizations that indicate a desire
  to participate in export promotion; and
  `(2) consistent with the provisions of section 2301(f)(2) of the Export
  Enhancement Act of 1988, undertake a program to provide training for
  personnel designated in such memoranda with respect to such financing
  programs.'.
SEC. 116. ASSISTANCE FOR EXPORTS BY SMALL BUSINESSES.
  Section 2(b)(1)(E)(v) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12
  U.S.C. 635(b)(1)(E)(v)) is amended by inserting `directly' after `exports'.
SEC. 117. COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the
  United States may compensate not more than 35 employees of the Bank without
  regard to the provisions of chapter 51 or subchapter III or VIII of chapter
  53 of title 5, United States Code.
  (b) SUNSET- Effective 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act,
  subsection (a) is hereby repealed.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Export-Import Bank of the United States shall submit a report to the
  Congress on--
  (1) the recruitment and employee retention problems of the Bank;
  (2) any relief from such problems afforded by the Office of Personnel
  Management;
  (3) any use of the authority provided in subsection (a); and
  (4) the conclusions and recommendations of the Bank with respect to--
  (A) whether such problems have been satisfactorily addressed; and
  (B) whether or not the authority of subsection (a) should be extended.
SEC. 118. REPORT ON REGIONAL OFFICES.
  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the
  Export-Import Bank of the United States shall submit a report to
  the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of
  the Senate on the Bank's plan to establish and operate regional offices. In
  addition, the report shall consider the appropriateness of cooperating with
  other Federal agencies and State and local organizations in co-locating
  personnel of such agencies and organizations with personnel of the Bank
  in such regional offices.
SEC. 119. REPORT ON FINANCING OF SERVICES.
  (a) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment  of this Act,
  the Export-Import Bank of the United States (in this section referred
  to as the `Bank') shall submit a report to the Committee on Banking,
  Finance and Urban Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the
  House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
  Affairs of the Senate on ways of facilitating the export financing of high
  technology services.
  (b) CONTENTS- The report required by subsection (a) shall include--
  (1) an analysis of the current export financing needs of firms dealing in
  high technology services;
  (2) an identification of the export financing support provided by commercial
  lenders to finance the sale of high technology services;
  (3) an identification of the official export credit programs in support of
  such exports of countries that are major participants in the Organization
  for Economic Cooperation and Development; and
  (4) a review of the programs of the Bank to determine how it can meet
  identified market needs of firms dealing in high technology services.
  (c) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `high technology
  services' means industries in which above average percentages of scientists
  and engineers are employed, and which have the highest direct research
  and development expenditures per dollar of sales, including--
  (1) computer programming and software services;
  (2) data processing services; and
  (3) computer related services.
SEC. 120. REPORT ON DEMAND FOR TRADE FINANCE FOR THE BALTIC STATES, THE
INDEPENDENT STATES OF THE FORMER SOVIET UNION, AND CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) United States export participation in the emerging markets in the
  independent States of the former Soviet Union, Central and Eastern Europe,
  and the Baltic States holds definite potential for preserving and creating
  jobs in the United States and strengthening the competitiveness of United
  States exports;
  (2) export assistance for United States goods destined for emerging
  republics is an investment in the development and establishment of their
  market economies, a critical element in maintaining existing United States
  businesses which export to the regions in which such republics are located,
  and a significant factor in the economic future of the United States and
  such republics;
  (3) the Export-Import Bank of the United States (in this section referred to
  as the `Bank') has a unique opportunity to play a leading role in assisting
  United States exporters to participate in the rapidly changing and highly
  competitive markets in the independent States of the former Soviet Union,
  Central and Eastern Europe, and the Baltic States; and
  (4) it is in the interest of the United States for the Bank to--
  (A) monitor carefully the export assistance programs and terms offered by
  foreign governments for competitive exports; and
  (B) make every effort to offer United States business export assistance
  for transactions in the independent States of the former Soviet Union,
  Central and Eastern Europe, and the Baltic States, that is comparable to
  the assistance being provided by other governments.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Bank shall transmit to the Congress a report analyzing the present and
  future demand for loans, guarantees, and insurance for trade between the
  United States and the Baltic States, between the United States and the
  independent States of the former Soviet Union, and between the United
  States and Central and Eastern Europe, and shall make recommendations
  regarding the adequacy of financing for trade between the United States
  and such countries. As used in this section, the term `independent States
  of the former Soviet Union' includes all successor states (other than the
  Baltic States) to the Soviet Union.
SEC. 121. ELIMINATION OF OUTDATED PROVISIONS.
  (a) AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 2- Section 2 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(3)--
  (A) by striking `(A) IN GENERAL- ';
  (B) by striking subparagraph (B); and
  (C) by redesignating clauses (i) through (iv) as subparagraphs (A) through
  (D), respectively;
  (2) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by striking `The Bank shall also' and all that
  follows through the final period and inserting the following: `The Bank shall
  include in the annual report a description of its role in the implementation
  of the strategic plan prepared by the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee
  in accordance with section 2312 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988.';
  (3) in subsection (b)(1)(E)(v), by striking `not less than--' and all
  that follows through the end of clause (v) and inserting `not less than
  10 percent of such authority for each fiscal  year.'; and
  (4) by striking subsection (f).
  (b)  AMENDMENT TO SECTION 4- Section 4 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635b) is amended by striking all after the first sentence and
  inserting the following: `Certificates evidencing stock ownership of the
  United States shall be issued by the Bank to the President of the United
  States, or to such other person or persons as the President may designate
  from time to time, to the extent of payments made for the capital stock
  of the Bank.'.
  (c) REPEAL OF CERTAIN OUTDATED SECTIONS- The Export-Import Bank Act of 1945
  (12 U.S.C. 635 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by striking sections 5, 10, 12, 13, 14, and 16;
  (2) by redesignating sections 6 through 9 as sections 5 through 8,
  respectively;
  (3) by redesignating section 11 as section 9;
  (4) by redesignating section 15 as section 10;
  (5) by redesignating section 17, as added by section 106 of this Act,
  as section 11;
  (6) by redesignating section 18, as added by section 108 of this Act,
  as section 12; and
  (7) by redesignating section 19, as added by section 115 of this Act,
  as section 13.
TITLE II--EXPORT PROMOTION
SEC. 201. TRADE PROMOTION COORDINATING COMMITTEE.
  Subtitle C of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4721 et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 2312. TRADE PROMOTION COORDINATING COMMITTEE.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE- The President shall establish the Trade
  Promotion Coordinating Committee (hereafter in this section referred to
  as the `TPCC'). The purpose of the TPCC shall be--
  `(1) to provide a unifying framework to coordinate the export promotion
  and export financing activities of the United States Government; and
  `(2) to develop a governmentwide strategic plan for carrying out Federal
  export promotion and export financing programs.
  `(b) DUTIES- The TPCC shall--
  `(1) coordinate the development of the trade promotion policies and programs
  of the United States Government;
  `(2) provide a central source of information for the business community
  on Federal export promotion and export financing programs;
  `(3) coordinate official trade promotion efforts to ensure better delivery
  of services to United States businesses, including--
  `(A) information and counseling on United States export promotion and
  export financing programs and opportunities in foreign markets;
  `(B) representation of United States business interests abroad; and
  `(C) assistance with foreign business contacts and projects;
  `(4) prevent unnecessary duplication in Federal export promotion and export
  financing activities;
  `(5) assess the appropriate levels and allocation of resources among
  agencies in support of export promotion and export financing and provide
  recommendations to the President based on its assessment; and
  `(6) carry out such other duties as are deemed to be appropriate, consistent
  with the purpose of the TPCC.
  `(c) STRATEGIC PLAN- To carry out subsection (b), the TPCC shall develop
  and implement a governmentwide strategic plan for Federal trade promotion
  efforts. Such plan shall--
  `(1) establish a set of priorities for Federal activities in support of
  United States exports and explain the rationale for the priorities;
  `(2) review current Federal programs designed to promote the sale of United
  States exports in light of the priorities established under paragraph (1)
  and develop a plan to bring such activities into line with the priorities
  and to improve coordination of such activities;
  `(3) identify areas of overlap and duplication among Federal export
  promotion activities and propose means of eliminating them;
  `(4) propose to the President an annual unified Federal trade promotion
  budget that supports the plan for priority activities and improved
  coordination established under paragraph (2) and eliminates funding for
  the areas of overlap and duplication identified under paragraph (3); and
  `(5) review efforts by the States (as defined in section 2301(i)) to
  promote United States exports and propose means of developing  cooperation
  between State and Federal efforts, including co-location, cost-sharing
  between Federal and State export promotion programs, and sharing of market
  research data.
  `(d) MEMBERSHIP-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Members of the TPCC shall include representatives from--
  `(A) the Department of Commerce;
  `(B) the Department of State;
  `(C) the Department of the Treasury;
  `(D) the Department of Agriculture;
  `(E) the Department of Energy;
  `(F) the Department of Transportation;
  `(G) the Office of the United States Trade Representative;
  `(H) the Small Business Administration;
  `(I) the Agency for International Development;
  `(J) the Trade and Development Program;
  `(K) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
  `(L) the Export-Import Bank of the United States; and
  `(M) at the discretion of the President, such other departments or agencies
  as may be necessary.
  `(2) CHAIRPERSON- The Secretary  of Commerce shall serve as the chairperson
  of the TPCC.
  `(e) MEMBER QUALIFICATIONS- Members of the TPCC shall be appointed by
  the heads of their respective departments or agencies. Such members, as
  well as alternates designated by any members unable to attend a meeting
  of the TPCC, shall be individuals who exercise significant decisionmaking
  authority in their respective departments or agencies.
  `(f) REPORT TO THE CONGRESS- The chairperson of the TPCC shall prepare and
  submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate,
  and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives,
  not later than September 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, a report
  describing the strategic plan developed by the TPCC pursuant to subsection
  (c), the implementation of such plan, and any revisions thereto.'.
SEC. 202. ONE-STOP SHOPS.
  Section 2301(b) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4721(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (6), by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period and inserting a semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(8) utilizing district and foreign offices as one-stop shops for United
  States exporters by providing exporters with information on all export
  promotion and export finance activities of the Federal Government,
  assisting exporters in identifying which Federal programs may be of
  greatest assistance, and assisting exporters in making contact with the
  Federal programs identified; and'.
SEC. 203. COMMERCIAL SERVICE COOPERATION IN FEDERAL FINANCING AND INSURANCE
PROGRAMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2301(b) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15
  U.S.C. 4721(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(9) providing United States exporters and export finance institutions with
  information on all financing and insurance programs of the Export-Import
  Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation,
  the Trade and Development Program, and the Small Business Administration,
  including providing assistance in completing applications for such programs
  and working with exporters and export finance institutions to address any
  deficiencies in such applications that have been submitted.'.
  (b) TRAINING AND INFORMATION ASSISTANCE- Section 2301 of the Export
  Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4721) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (f) through (i) as subsections (g) through
  (j), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new subsection:
  `(f) COOPERATION IN FEDERAL FINANCING AND INSURANCE PROGRAMS- To assist the
  Commercial Service in carrying out subsection (b)(9), and consistent with
  the provisions of section 13 of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, the
  Export-Import Bank of the United States, the Overseas Private Investment
  Corporation, the Trade and Development Program, and the Small Business
  Administration shall each--
  `(1) provide to the Commercial Service complete and current information
  on all of its programs and financing practices; and
  `(2) undertake a training program regarding such programs and practices for
  Commercial Service Officers who are designated by the Assistant Secretary
  of Commerce and Director General of the Commercial Service.'.
SEC. 204. ENVIRONMENTAL TRADE PROMOTION.
  (a) TPCC ACTIVITIES- Subtitle C of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988
  (15 U.S.C. 4721 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new section:
`SEC. 2313. ENVIRONMENTAL TRADE PROMOTION.
  `(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the policy of the United States to
  foster the export of United States environmental technologies, goods,
  and services. In exercising their powers and functions, all appropriate
  departments and agencies of the United States Government shall encourage
  and support sales of such technologies, goods, and services.
  `(b) ENVIRONMENTAL TRADE WORKING GROUP OF THE TRADE PROMOTION COORDINATION
  COMMITTEE-
  `(1) ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE- The President shall establish the
  Environmental Trade Promotion Working Group (hereafter in this section
  referred to as the `Working Group') as a subcommittee of the Trade Promotion
  Coordination Committee (hereafter in this section referred to as the `TPCC'),
  established under section 2312. The purpose of the Working Group shall be--
  `(A) to address all issues with respect to the export promotion and
  export financing of United States environmental technologies, goods,
  and services; and
  `(B) to develop a strategy for expanding United States exports of
  environmental technologies, goods, and services.
  `(2) MEMBERSHIP- The members of the Working Group shall be--
  `(A) representatives of the departments and agencies that are represented
  on the TPCC, who are designated by the head of their respective departments
  or agencies to advise the head of such department or agency on ways of
  promoting the export of United States environmental technologies, goods,
  and services; and
  `(B) a representative of the Environmental Protection Agency.
  `(3) CHAIRPERSON- The Secretary of Commerce (hereafter in this section
  referred to as the `Secretary') shall designate the chairperson of the
  Working Group from among senior employees of the Department of Commerce. The
  chairperson shall--
  `(A) assess the effectiveness of United States Government programs for
  the promotion of exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services;
  `(B) recommend improvements to such programs, including regulatory changes
  or additional authority that may be necessary to improve the promotion of
  exports of environmental technologies, goods, and services;
  `(C) ensure that the members of the Working Group coordinate their
  environmental trade promotion programs, including feasibility studies,
  technical assistance, training programs, business information services,
  and export financing; and
  `(D) assess, jointly with the Working Group representative of the
  Environmental Protection Agency, the extent to which the environmental
  trade promotion programs of the Working Group advance the environmental
  goals established in `Agenda 21' by the United Nations Conference
  on Environment and Development held at Rio de Janeiro, and in other
  international environmental agreements.
  `(4) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The chairperson of the TPCC shall include a
  report on the activities of the Working Group as a part of the annual
  report submitted to the Congress by the TPCC.
  `(c) TRADE INFORMATION- In support of the work of the Working Group,
  the Secretary shall, as part of the regular market survey and information
  services activities of the Department of Commerce, make available--
  `(1) information on existing and emerging markets and market trends for
  environmental technologies, goods, and services; and
  `(2) a description of the export promotion programs for environmental
  technologies, goods, and services of the agencies that are represented on
  the Working Group.
  `(d) OVERSEAS SERVICES FOR EXPORTERS-
  `(1) AUTHORIZATION- The Secretary is authorized to designate a Foreign
  Commercial Service officer to serve as the Environmental Export Assistance
  Officer in any country--
  `(A) whose companies are important competitors for United States exports
  of environmental technologies, goods, and services; or
  `(B) that offers promising markets for such exports.
  `(2) DUTIES- The officer designated under paragraph (1) shall provide
  export promotion assistance to United States companies, including--
  `(A) assessments of government assistance provided to producers of
  environmental technologies, goods, and services in such countries, the
  effectiveness of such assistance on the competitiveness of United States
  products, and whether comparable United States assistance exists;
  `(B) assistance in identifying potential customers and market opportunities
  in such countries;
  `(C) assistance in obtaining necessary business services in such countries;
  `(D) information on environmental standards and regulations in such
  countries; and
  `(E) information on all United States Government programs that could
  assist the promotion, financing, and sale of exports of United States
  environmental technologies, goods, and services in such countries.'.
  (b) REPORT ON INSURANCE FEASIBILITY- Not later than 1 year after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the chairperson of the Trade Promotion Coordinating
  Committee, after consultation with the appropriate departments and agencies
  of the United States Government, shall submit a report to the Congress
  that analyzes--
  (1) the extent to which Federal investment insurance and export financing
  programs sufficiently protect against business failures or default on
  obligations arising from changes by a foreign government in its environmental
  laws or regulations; and
  (2) the advisability and feasibility of expanding the coverage of such
  programs, or creating new programs, to address such risks.
SEC. 205. RANK OF COMMERCIAL SERVICE OFFICERS.
  Section 2301(d)(1) of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15
  U.S.C. 4721(d)(1)) is amended in the first sentence by striking `8' and
  inserting `16'.
SEC. 206. REPORT ON EXPORT POLICY.
  The Export Enhancement Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 4721 et seq.) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 2314. REPORT ON EXPORT POLICY.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Not later than May 31 of each year, the Secretary
  of Commerce shall submit to the Congress a report on the international
  economic position of the United States and, not later than June 30 of each
  year, shall appear before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
  Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House
  of Representatives to testify on issues addressed in that report.
  `(b) CONTENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Each report required under subsection (a) shall address--
  `(A) the state of United States international economic competitiveness,
  focusing, in particular, on the efforts of the Department of Commerce--
  `(i) to encourage research and development of technologies and products
  deemed critical for industrial leadership;
  `(ii) to promote investment in and improved manufacturing processes for
  such technologies and products; and
  `(iii) to increase United States industrial exports of products using the
  technologies described in clause (i) to those markets where the United
  States Government has sought to reduce barriers to exports;
  `(B) the report on the Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee strategic
  plan submitted to the Congress in accordance with section 2312(f);
  `(C) other specific recommendations of the Department of Commerce to
  improve the United States balance of trade;
  `(D) the effects on the international economic competitiveness of the
  United States of--
  `(i) formal and informal trade barriers; and
  `(ii) subsidies by foreign countries to their domestic industries;
  `(E) the efforts of the Department of Commerce to reduce trade barriers; and
  `(F) the adequacy of export financing programs of the United States
  Government and recommendations for improving such programs.
  `(2) POLICY BASIS FOR REPORTS- Portions of each report under this section
  may incorporate or be based upon relevant reports and testimony produced
  by the Department of Commerce or other agencies, but the policy views
  shall be those of the Secretary of Commerce.'.
SEC. 207. PROVISIONAL REPEAL OF AMENDMENTS.
  In the event of the enactment of title II of H.R. 3489, `An Act to
  reauthorize the Export Administration Act of 1979, and for other purposes',
  this title and the amendments made by this title are repealed, effective
  on the date of enactment of title II of H.R. 3489, `An Act to reauthorize
  the Export Administration Act of 1979, and for other purposes'.
SEC. 208. EXPORT PROMOTION AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 202 of the Export Administration Amendments Act of 1985 (15
  U.S.C. 4052) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 202. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of Commerce--
  `(1) to carry out export promotion programs--
  `(A) $190,000,000 for fiscal year 1993; and
  `(B) $200,000,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  `(2) to carry out section 2303 of the Export Enhancement Act of 1988,
  $5,500,000 for each of fiscal years 1993 and 1994.'.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 301. JOHN HEINZ COMPETITIVE EXCELLENCE AWARD.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the John Heinz Competitive
  Excellence Award, which shall be evidenced by a national medal bearing the
  inscription `John Heinz Competitive Excellence Award'. The medal, to be
  minted by the United States Mint and provided to the Congress, shall be
  of such design and bear such additional inscriptions as the Secretary of
  the Treasury may prescribe, in consultation with the Majority and Minority
  Leaders of the Senate, the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of
  Representatives, and the family of Senator John Heinz. The medal shall be--
  (1) three inches in diameter; and
  (2) made of bronze obtained from recycled sources.
  (b) Award Categories-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Two separate awards may be given under this section in each
  year. One such award may be given to a qualifying individual (including
  employees of any State or local government, or the Federal Government),
  and 1 such award may be given to a qualifying organization, institution,
  or business.
  (2) LIMITATION- No award shall be made under this section to an entity
  in either category described in paragraph (1) in any year if there is no
  qualified individual, organization, institution, or business recommended
  under subsection (c) for an award in such category in that year.
  (c) QUALIFICATION CRITERIA FOR AWARD-
  (1) SELECTION PANEL- A selection panel shall be established, comprised of
  a total of 8 persons, including--
  (A) 2 persons appointed by the Majority Leader of the Senate;
  (B) 2 persons appointed by the Minority Leader of the Senate;
  (C) 2 persons appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
  (D) 2 persons appointed by the Minority Leader of the House of
  Representatives.
  (2) QUALIFICATION- An individual, organization, institution, or business
  may qualify for an award under this section only if such individual,
  organization, institution, or business--
  (A) is nominated to the Majority or Minority Leader of the Senate or to
  the Speaker or the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives by a
  member of the Senate or the House of Representatives;
  (B) permits a rigorous evaluation by the Office of Technology Assessment of
  the way in which such individual, organization, institution, or business
  has demonstrated excellence in promoting United States industrial
  competitiveness; and
  (C) meets such other requirements as the selection panel determines to be
  appropriate to achieve the objectives of this section.
  (3) EVALUATION- An evaluation of each nominee shall be conducted by the
  Office of Technology Assessment. The Office of Technology Assessment
  shall work with the selection panel to establish appropriate procedures
  for evaluating nominees.
  (4) PANEL REVIEW- The selection panel shall review the Office of Technology
  Assessment's evaluation of each nominee and may, based on those evaluations,
  recommend 1 award winner for each year for each category described in
  subsection (b)(1) to the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate and
  the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
  (d) PRESENTATION OF AWARD-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate and the
  Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives shall make
  the award to an individual and an organization, institution, or business
  that has demonstrated excellence in promoting United States industrial
  competitiveness in the international marketplace through technological
  innovation, productivity improvement, or improved competitive strategies.
  (2) CEREMONIES- The presentation of an award under this section shall be
  made by the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate and the Speaker and
  the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, with such ceremonies
  as they may deem proper.
  (3) PUBLICITY- An individual, organization, institution, or business to
  which an award is made under this section may publicize its receipt of such
  award and use the award in its advertising, but it shall be ineligible to
  receive another award in the same category for a period of 5 years.
  (e) PUBLICATION OF EVALUATIONS-
  (1) SUMMARY OF EVALUATIONS- The Office of Technology Assessment shall
  ensure that all nominees receive a detailed summary of any evaluation
  conducted of such nominee under subsection (c).
  (2) SUMMARY OF COMPETITIVENESS STRATEGY- The Office of Technology Assessment
  shall also make available to all nominees and the public a summary of each
  award winner's competitiveness strategy. Proprietary information shall
  not be included in any such summary without the consent of the award winner.
  (f) REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS- The Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate
  and the Speaker and the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives
  are authorized to seek and accept gifts from public and private sources
  to defray the cost of implementing this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.