 
--H.R.1253--
 H.R.1253
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 to carry out research,
and develop judicial training curricula, relating to child custody litigation.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITION.
  Section 202 of the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701)
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (6) by striking `and' at the end,
  (2) in paragraph (7) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
  and', and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(8) `domestic violence' means--
  `(A) any action that constitutes--
  `(i) attempting to cause or intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causing
  bodily injury or physical illness;
  `(ii) rape, sexual assault, or causing involuntary deviate sexual
  intercourse;
  `(iii) placing by physical menace another in fear of imminent serious
  bodily injury; or
  `(iv) the infliction of false imprisonment;
if such action is taken by one of 2 spouses, former spouses, or sexual or
intimate partners against the other spouse, former spouse, or partner and the
2 of whom share biological parenthood of, have adopted, are legal custodians
of, or are stepparents of a minor child; or
  `(B) physically or sexually abusing such minor child if such abuse is
  inflicted by either of such spouses, former spouses, or partners.'.
SEC. 2. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE FUNDS FOR RESEARCH AND CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT
RELATING TO CHILD CUSTODY LITIGATION.
  Section 206(c) of the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42
  U.S.C. 10705(c)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (12) by striking `and' at the end,
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (13) as paragraph (14), and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:
  `(13) conduct not more than 5 projects at an aggregate cost of not to
  exceed $600,000--
  `(A) to investigate, and carry out research regarding State judicial
  decisions relating to child custody litigation involving domestic violence;
  `(B) to develop training curricula to assist State courts to develop an
  understanding of, and appropriate responses to, child custody litigation
  involving domestic violence; and
  `(C) to disseminate the results of the investigation and research carried
  out under subparagraph (A), and the curricula developed under subparagraph
  (B), to State courts; and'.
SEC. 3. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  The State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10701 et seq.) is
  amended--
  (1) in section 203(f) by striking the last sentence,
  (2) in section 206(c), as amended by section 2--
  (A) in paragraph (3) by striking `judicial and' the second place it appears,
  (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (14) as paragraphs (5) through
  (15), respectively, and
  (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
  `(4) to support studies of the appropriateness of efficacy of court
  organization and financing structures in particular States, and to enable
  States to implement plans for improved court organization and finance;'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.