 
--H.R.4841--
H.R.4841
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Granting the consent of the Congress to the New Hampshire-Maine Interstate
School Compact.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONSENT OF CONGRESS.
  The Congress consents to the compact which was entered into between the
  States of New Hampshire and Maine providing for the establishment of an
  interstate school district, and was approved by the States of New Hampshire
  and Maine in 1969. The compact is substantially as follows:
`New Hampshire-Maine Interstate School Compact
`Article I
`General Provisions
  `A. STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the purpose of this compact to increase
  the educational opportunities within the states of New Hampshire and
  Maine by encouraging the formation of interstate school districts which
  will each be a natural social and economic region with adequate financial
  resources and a number of pupils sufficient to permit the efficient use of
  school facilities within the interstate district and to provide improved
  instruction. The state boards of education of New Hampshire and Maine may
  formulate and adopt additional standards consistent with this purpose and
  with these standards; and the formation of any interstate school district
  and the adoption of its articles of agreement shall be subject to the
  approval of both state boards as set forth.
  `B. REQUIREMENT OF CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL- This compact shall not become
  effective until approved by the United States Congress.
  `C. DEFINITIONS- The terms used in this compact shall be construed as
  follows, unless a different meaning is clearly apparent from the language
  or context:
  `a. COMMISSIONER- `Commissioner' shall refer to Commissioner of Education.
  `b. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL- `Elementary school' shall mean a school which
  includes all grades from kindergarten or grade one through not less than
  grade 6 nor more than grade 8.
  `c. INTERSTATE BOARD- `Interstate board' shall refer to the board serving
  an interstate school district.
  `d. INTERSTATE SCHOOL DISTRICT- `Interstate school district' and `interstate
  district' shall mean a school district composed of one or more school
  districts located in the State of Maine associated under this compact with
  one or more school districts located in the state of New Hampshire and
  may include either the elementary schools, the secondary schools, or both.
  `e. JOINT ACTION- `Joint action' where joint action by both state boards is
  required, each state board shall deliberate and vote by its own majority,
  but shall separately reach the same result or take the same action as the
  other state board.
  `f. MAINE BOARD- `Maine Board' shall refer to the Maine State Board of
  Education.
  `g. MEMBER SCHOOL DISTRICT- `Member school district' and `member district'
  shall mean a school administrative unit located either in Maine or
  New Hampshire which is included within the boundaries of a proposed or
  established interstate school district.
  `h. NEW HAMPSHIRE BOARD- `New Hampshire board' shall refer to the New
  Hampshire State Board of Education.
  `i. PROFESSIONAL STAFF PERSONNEL- `Professional staff personnel' and
  `instructional staff personnel' shall include superintendents, assistant
  superintendents, administrative assistants, principals, guidance counselors,
  special educational personnel, school nurses, therapists, teachers, and
  other certificated personnel.
  `j. SECONDARY SCHOOL- `Secondary school' shall mean a school which includes
  all grades beginning no lower than grade 7 and no higher than grade 12.
  `k. WARRANT- `Warrant' or `warning' to mean the same for both states.
`Article II
`Procedure for Formation of an Interstate School District
  `A. CREATION OF PLANNING COMMITTEE- The New Hampshire and Maine commissioners
  of education shall have the power, acting jointly to constitute and
  discharge one or more interstate school district planning committees. Each
  such planning committee shall consist of at least 2 voters from each of a
  group of 2 or more neighboring member districts. One of the representatives
  from each member district shall be a member of its school board, whose term
  on the planning committee shall be concurrent with his term as a school
  board member. The term of each member of a planning committee who is not
  also a school board member shall expire on June 30th of the third year
  following his appointment. The existence of any planning committee may be
  terminated either by vote of a majority of its members or by joint action
  of the commissioners. In forming and appointing members to an interstate
  school district planning board, the commissioners shall consider and take
  into account recommendations and nominations made by school boards of member
  districts. No member of a planning committee shall be disqualified because
  he is at the same time a member of another planning board or committee
  created under this compact or under any other provisions of law. An existing
  informal interstate school planning committee may be reconstituted as a
  formal planning committee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and
  its previous deliberations adopted and ratified by the reorganized formal
  planning committee. Vacancies on a planning committee shall be filled by
  the commissioners acting jointly.
  `B. OPERATING PROCEDURES OF PLANNING COMMITTEE- Each interstate school
  district planning committee shall meet in the first instance at the
  call of any member, and shall organize by the election of a chairman
  and clerk-treasurer, each of whom shall be a resident of a different
  state. Subsequent meetings may be called by either officer of the
  committee. The members of the committee shall serve without pay. The
  member districts shall appropriate money on an equal basis at each annual
  meeting to meet the expenses of the committee, including the cost of
  publication and distribution of reports and advertising. From time to
  time the commissioners may add additional members and additional member
  districts to the committee, and may remove members and member districts
  from the committee. An interstate school district planning committee shall
  act by majority vote of its membership present and voting.
  `C. DUTIES OF INTERSTATE SCHOOL DISTRICT PLANNING COMMITTEE- It shall
  be the duty of an interstate school district planning committee, in
  consultation with the commissioners and the state departments of education:
  to study the advisability of establishing an interstate school district in
  accordance with the standards set forth in paragraph A, its organization,
  operation and control, and the advisability of constructing, maintaining
  and operating a school or schools to serve the needs of such interstate
  district; to estimate the construction and operating costs thereof; to
  investigate the methods of financing such school or schools, and any other
  matters pertaining to the organization and operation of an interstate
  school district; and to submit a report or reports of its findings and
  recommendations to the several member districts.
  `D. RECOMMENDATIONS AND PREPARATION OF ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT- An interstate
  school district planning committee may recommend that an interstate school
  district composed of all the member districts represented by its membership,
  or any specified combination of such member districts, be established. If
  the planning committee does recommend the establishment of an interstate
  school district, it shall include in its report such recommendation, and
  shall prepare and include in its report proposed articles of agreement
  for the proposed interstate school district, which shall be signed by at
  least a majority of the membership of the planning committee, which set
  forth the following:
  `a. The name of the interstate school district.
  `b. The member districts which shall be combined to form the proposed
  interstate school district.
  `c. The number, composition, method of selection and terms of office of
  the interstate school board, provided that:
  `(1) The interstate school board shall consist of an odd number of members,
  not less than 5 nor more than 15;
  `(2) The terms of office shall not exceed 3 years;
  `(3) Each member district shall be entitled to elect at least one member
  of the interstate school board. Each member district shall either vote
  separately at the interstate school district meeting by the use of a
  distinctive ballot, or shall choose its member or members at any other
  election at which school officials may be chosen;
  `(4) The method of election shall provide for the filing of candidacies
  in advance of election and for the use of a printed nonpartisan ballot;
  `(5) Subject to the foregoing, provision may be made for the election of
  one or more members at large.
  `d. The grades for which the interstate school district shall be responsible.
  `e. The specific properties of member districts to be acquired initially
  by the interstate school district and the general location of any proposed
  new schools to be initially established or constructed by the interstate
  school district.
  `f. The method of apportioning the operating expenses of the interstate
  school district among the several member districts, and the time and manner
  of payments of such shares.
  `g. The indebtedness of any member district which the interstate district
  is to assume.
  `h. The method of apportioning the capital expenses of the interstate
  school district among the several member districts, which need not be
  the same as the method of apportioning operating expenses, and the time
  and manner of payment of such shares. Capital expenses shall include the
  cost of acquiring land and buildings for school purposes; the construction,
  furnishing and equipping of school buildings and facilities; and the payment
  of the principal and interest of any indebtedness which is incurred to
  pay for the same.
  `i. The manner in which state aid, available under the laws of either New
  Hampshire or Maine, shall be allocated, unless otherwise expressly provided
  in this compact or by the laws making such aid available.
  `j. The method by which the articles or agreement may be amended, which
  amendments may include the annexation of territory, or an increase or
  decrease in the number of grades for which the interstate district shall be
  responsible, provided that no amendment shall be effective until approved
  by both state boards in the same manner as required for approval of the
  original articles of agreement.
  `k. The date of operating responsibility of the proposed interstate
  school district and a proposed program for the assumption of operating
  responsibility for education by the proposed interstate school district,
  and any school construction; which the interstate school district shall
  have the power to vary by vote as circumstances may require.
  `l. Any other matters, not incompatible with law, which the interstate
  school district planning committee may consider appropriate to include in
  the articles of agreement, including, without limitation:
  `(1) The method of allocating the cost of transportation between the
  interstate district and member districts;
  `(2) The nomination of individual school directors to serve until the
  first annual meeting of the interstate school district.
  `E. HEARINGS- If the planning committee recommends the formation of an
  interstate school district, it shall hold at least one public hearing on its
  report and the proposed articles of agreement within the proposed interstate
  school district in Maine, and at least one public hearing thereon within the
  proposed interstate school district in New Hampshire. The planning committee
  shall give such notice thereof as it may determine to be reasonable, provided
  that such notice shall include at least one publication in a newspaper of
  general circulation within the proposed interstate school district not less
  than 15 days, not counting the date of publication and not counting the
  date of the hearing, before the date of the first hearing. Such hearings
  may be adjourned from time to time and from place to place. The planning
  committee may revise the proposed articles of agreement after the date of
  the hearings. It shall not be required to hold further hearings on the
  revised articles of agreement but may hold one or more further hearings
  after notice similar to that required for the first hearings if the
  planning committee in its sole discretion determines that the revisions
  are so substantial in nature as to require further presentation to the
  public before submission to the state boards of education.
  `F. APPROVAL BY STATE BOARDS- After the hearings a copy of the proposed
  articles of agreement, as revised, signed by a majority of the planning
  committee, shall be submitted by it to each state board. The state boards may
  if they find that the articles of agreement are in accord with the standards
  set forth in this compact and in accordance with sound educational policy,
  approve the same as submitted, or refer them back to the planning committee
  for further study. The planning committee may make additional revisions to
  the proposed articles of agreement to conform to the recommendations of the
  state boards. Further hearings on the proposed articles of agreement shall
  not be required unless ordered by the state boards in their discretion. In
  exercising such discretion, the state boards shall take into account whether
  or not the additional revisions are so substantial in nature as to require
  further presentation to the public. If both state boards find that the
  articles of agreement as further revised are in accord with the standards
  set forth in this compact and in accordance with sound educational policy,
  they shall approve the same. After approval by both state boards, each
  state board shall cause the articles of agreement to be submitted to the
  school boards of the several member districts in each state for acceptance
  by the member districts as provided in paragraph G. At the same time,
  each state board shall designate  the form of warrant, date, time, place,
  and period of voting for the special meeting of the member district to be
  held in accordance with paragraph G.
  `G. ADOPTION BY MEMBER DISTRICTS- Upon receipt of written notice from the
  state board in its state of the approval of the articles of agreement by
  both state boards, the school board of each member district shall cause the
  articles of agreement to be filed with the member district clerk. Within 10
  days after receipt of such notice, the school board shall issue its warrant
  for a special meeting of the member district, the warrant to be in the form,
  and the meeting to be held at the time and place and in the manner prescribed
  by the state board. No approval of the superior court shall be required
  for such special school district meeting in New Hampshire. Voting shall be
  with the use of a check-list by a ballot substantially in the following form:
  `Shall the school district accept the provisions of the New Hampshire-Maine
  Interstate School Compact providing for the establishment of an interstate
  school district, together with the school districts of              and
  , etc., in accordance with the proposed articles of agreement filed with
  the school district (town, city or incorporated school district) clerk?
`Yes ( )    No ( )
  `If the articles of agreement included the nomination of individual school
  directors, those nominated from each member district shall be included
  in the ballot and voted upon, such election to become effective upon the
  formation of an interstate school district.
  `If a majority of the votes present and voting in a member district vote in
  the affirmative, the clerk for such member district shall forthwith send to
  the state board in its state a certified copy of the warrant, certificate of
  posting, and minutes of the meeting of the district. If the state boards of
  both states find that a majority of the voters present and voting in each
  member district have voted in favor of the establishment of the interstate
  school district, they shall issue a joint certificate to that effect; and
  such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the lawful organization
  and formation of the interstate school district as of its date of issuance.
  `H. RESUBMISSION- If the proposed articles of agreement are adopted by
  one or more of the member districts but rejected by one or more of the
  member districts, the state boards may resubmit them, in the same form as
  previously submitted, to the rejecting member districts, in which case the
  school boards thereof shall resubmit them to the voters in accordance with
  paragraph G. An affirmative vote in accordance therewith shall have the
  same effect as though the articles of agreement had been adopted in the
  first instance. In the alternative, the state boards may either discharge
  the planning committee, or refer the articles of agreement back for
  further consideration to the same or a reconstituted planning committee,
  which shall have all the powers and duties as the planning committee as
  originally constituted.
`Article III
`Powers of Interstate School District
  `A. POWERS- Each interstate school district shall be a body corporate and
  politic, with power to:
  `a. Acquire, construct, extend, improve, staff, operate, manage and govern
  public schools within its boundaries;
  `b. Sue and be sued, subject to the limitations of liability hereinafter
  set forth;
  `c. Have a seal and alter the same at pleasure;
  `d. Adopt, maintain and amend bylaws not inconsistent with this compact,
  and the laws of the 2 states;
  `e. Acquire by purchase, condemnation, lease or otherwise, real and personal
  property for the use of its schools;
  `f. Enter into contracts and incur debts;
  `g. Borrow money for the purposes set forth, and to issue its bonds or
  notes therefor;
  `h. Make contracts with and accept grants and aid from the United States,
  the State of Maine, the State of New Hampshire, any agency or municipality
  thereof, and private corporations and individuals for the construction,
  maintenance, reconstruction, operation and financing of its schools; and
  to do any and all things necessary in order to avail itself of such aid
  and cooperation;
  `i. Employ such assistants, agents, servants and independent contractors
  as it shall deem necessary or desirable for its purposes; and
  `j. Take any other action which is necessary or appropriate in order to
  exercise any of the foregoing powers.
`Article IV
`District Meetings
  `A. GENERAL- Votes of the district shall be taken at a duly warned
  meeting held at any place in the district, at which all of the eligible
  legal voters of the member districts shall be entitled to vote, except as
  otherwise provided with respect to the election of directors.
  `B. ELIGIBILITY OF VOTERS- Any resident who would be eligible to vote
  at a meeting of a member district being held at the same time shall be
  eligible to vote at a meeting of the interstate district. The town clerks
  in each Maine member district and the supervisors of the checklist of each
  New Hampshire district shall respectively prepare a checklist of eligible
  voters for each meeting of the interstate district in the same manner, and
  they shall have all the same powers and duties with respect to eligibility
  of voters in their districts as for a meeting of a member district.
  `C. WARNING OF MEETINGS- A meeting shall be warned by a warrant addressed
  to the residents of the interstate school district qualified to vote in
  district affairs, stating the time and place of the meeting and the subject
  matter of the business to be acted upon. The warrant shall be signed by
  the clerk and by a majority of the directors. Upon written application of
  10 or more voters in the district, presented to the directors or to one of
  them, at least 25 days before the day prescribed for an annual meeting,
  the directors shall insert in their warrant for such meeting any subject
  matter specified in such application.
  `D. POSTING AND PUBLICATION OF WARRANT- The directors shall cause an
  attested copy of the warrant to be posted at the place of meeting, and
  a like copy at a public place in each member district at least 20 days,
  not counting the date of posting and the date of meeting, before the
  date of the meeting. In addition, the directors shall cause the warrant
  to be advertised in a newspaper of general circulation on at least one
  occasion, such publication to occur at least 10 days, not counting the
  date of publication and not counting the date of the meeting, before
  the date of the meeting. Although no further notice shall be required,
  the directors may give such     further notice of the meeting as they in
  their discretion deem appropriate under the circumstances.
  `E. RETURN OF WARRANT- The warrant with a certificate thereon, verified
  by oath, stating the time and place when and where copies of the warrant
  were posted and published, shall be given to the clerk of the interstate
  school district at or before the time of the meeting, and shall be recorded
  by him in the records of the interstate school district.
  `F. ORGANIZATION MEETING- The commissioners, acting jointly, shall fix a
  time and place for a special meeting of the qualified voters within the
  interstate school district for the purpose of organization, and shall
  prepare and issue the warrant for the meeting after consultation with
  the interstate school district planning board and the members-elect,
  if any, of the interstate school board of directors. Such meeting shall
  be held within 60 days after the date of issuance of the certificate of
  formation, unless the time is further extended by the joint action of the
  state boards. At the organization meeting the commissioner of education
  of the state where the meeting is held, or his designate, shall preside
  in the first instance, and the following business shall be transacted:
  `a. A temporary moderator and a temporary clerk shall be elected from
  among the qualified voters who shall serve until a moderator and clerk
  respectively have been elected and qualified.
  `b. A moderator, clerk, a treasurer and 3 auditors shall be elected to serve
  until the next annual meeting and thereafter until their successors are
  elected and qualified. Unless previously elected, a board of school directors
  shall be elected to serve until their successors are elected and qualified.
  `c. The date for the annual meeting shall be established.
  `d. Provision shall be made for the payment of any organizational or other
  expense incurred on behalf of the district before the organization meeting,
  including the cost of architects, surveyors, contractors, attorneys,
  and educational or other consultants or experts.
  `e. Any other business, the subject matter of which has been included in
  the warrant, and which the voters would have had powers to transact at
  any annual meeting.
  `G. ANNUAL MEETINGS- An annual meeting of the district shall be held between
  January 15th and June 1st of each year at such time as the interstate
  district may by vote determine. Once determined, the date of the annual
  meeting shall remain fixed until changed by vote of the interstate district
  as a subsequent annual or special meeting. At each annual meeting the
  following business shall be transacted:
  `a. Necessary officers shall be elected.
  `b. Money shall be appropriated for the support of the interstate district
  schools for the fiscal year beginning the following July 1st.
  `c. Such other business as may properly come before the meeting.
  `H. SPECIAL MEETINGS- A special meeting of the district shall be held
  whenever, in the opinion of the directors, there is occasion therefor,
  or whenever written application shall have been made by 5 percent or more
  of the voters based on the checklists as prepared for the last preceding
  meeting, setting forth the subject matter upon which such action is
  desired. A special meeting may appropriate money without compliance with
  RSA 33:8 or RSA 197:3 which would otherwise require the approval of the
  New Hampshire superior court.
  `I. CERTIFICATION OF RECORDS- The clerk of an interstate school district
  shall have the power to certify the record of the votes adopted at an
  interstate school district meeting to the respective commissioners and
  state boards and, where required, for filing with a secretary of state.
  `J. METHOD OF VOTING AT SCHOOL DISTRICT MEETINGS- Voting at meetings of
  interstate school districts shall take place as follows:
  `a. SCHOOL DIRECTORS- A separate ballot shall be prepared for each member
  district, listing the candidates for interstate school director to represent
  such member district; and any candidates for interstate school director at
  large; and the voters of each member district shall register on a separate
  ballot their choice for the office of school director or directors. In
  the alternative, the articles of agreement may provide for the election
  of school directors by one or more of the member districts at an election
  otherwise held for the choice of school or other municipal officers.
  `b. OTHER VOTES- Except as otherwise provided in the articles of agreement
  or this compact, with respect to all other votes, the voters of the
  interstate school district shall vote as one body irrespective of the
  member districts in which they are resident, and a simple majority of those
  present and voting, at any duly warned meeting shall carry the vote. Voting
  for officers to be elected at any meeting, other than school directors,
  shall be by ballot or voice, as the interstate district may determine,
  either in its articles of agreement or by a vote of the meeting.
`Article V
`Officers
  `A. OFFICERS; GENERAL- The officers of an interstate school district shall
  be a board of school directors, a chairman of the board, a vice-chairman
  of the board, a secretary of the board, a moderator, a clerk, a treasurer
  and 3 auditors. Except as otherwise specifically provided, they shall
  be eligible to take office immediately following their election; they
  shall serve until the next annual meeting of the interstate district and
  until their successors are elected and qualified. Each shall take oath
  for the faithful performance of his duties before the moderator, or a
  notary public or a justice of the peace of the state in which the oath is
  administered. Their compensation shall be fixed by vote of the district. No
  person shall be eligible to any district office unless he is a voter in the
  district. A custodian, school teacher, principal, superintendent or other
  employee of an interstate district acting as such shall not be eligible
  to hold office as a school director.
  `B. BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
  `a. HOW CHOSEN- Each member district shall be represented by at least one
  resident on the board of school directors of an interstate school district. A
  member district shall be entitled to such further representation on the
  interstate board of school directors as provided in the articles of agreement
  as amended from time to time. The articles of agreement as amended from time
  to time may provide for school directors at large, as set forth. No person
  shall be disqualified to serve as a member of an interstate board because
  he is at the same time a member of the school board of a member district.
  `b. TERM- Interstate school directors shall be elected for terms in
  accordance with the articles of agreement.
  `c. DUTIES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS- The board of school directors of an
  interstate school district shall have and exercise all of the powers of
  the district not reserved herein to the voters of the district.
  `d. ORGANIZATION- The clerk of the district shall warn a meeting of the
  board of school directors to be held within 10 days following the date
  of the annual meeting, for the purpose of organizing the board, including
  the election of its officers.
  `C. CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD- The chairman of the board of interstate school
  directors shall be elected by the interstate board from among its members
  at its first meeting following the annual meeting. The chairman shall
  preside at the meetings of the board and shall perform such other duties
  as the board may assign to him.
  `D. VICE-CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS- The vice-chairman of the
  interstate board shall be elected in the same manner as the chairman. He
  shall represent a member district in a state other than that represented
  by the chairman. He shall preside in the absence of the chairman and shall
  perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the interstate board.
  `E. SECRETARY OF THE BOARD- The secretary of the interstate board shall be
  elected in the same manner as the chairman. Instead of electing one of its
  members, the interstate board may appoint the interstate district clerk
  to serve as secretary of the board in addition to his other duties. The
  secretary of the interstate board, or the interstate district clerk, if so
  appointed, shall keep the minutes of its meetings, shall certify its records,
  and perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the board.
  `F. MODERATOR- The moderator shall preside at the district meetings,
  regulate the business thereof, decide questions of order, and make a public
  declaration of every vote passed. He may prescribe rules of procedure;
  but such rules may be altered by the district. He may administer oaths to
  district officers in either state.
  `G. CLERK- The clerk shall keep a true record of all proceedings at each
  district meeting, shall certify its records, shall make an attested copy
  of any records of the district for any person upon request and tender of
  reasonable fees therefor, if so appointed, shall serve as secretary of the
  board of school directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be
  required by custom or law.
  `H. TREASURER- The treasurer shall have custody of all of the monies
  belonging to the district and shall pay out the same only upon the order
  of the interstate board. He shall keep a fair and accurate account of all
  sums received into and paid from the interstate district treasury, and
  at the close of each fiscal year he shall make a report to the interstate
  district, giving a particular account of all receipts and payments during
  the year. He shall furnish to the interstate directors, statements from
  his books and submit his books and vouchers to them and to the district
  auditors for examination whenever so requested. He shall make all returns
  called for by laws relating to school districts. Before entering on his
  duties, the treasurer shall give a bond with sufficient sureties and in
  such sum as the directors may require. The treasurer's term of office is
  from July 1st to the following June 30th.
  `I. AUDITORS- At the organization meeting of the district, 3 auditors shall
  be chosen, one to serve for a term of one year, one to serve for a term of
  2 years and one to serve for a term of 3 years. After the expiration of
  each original term, the successor shall be chosen for a 3 year term. At
  least one auditor shall be a resident of Maine, and one auditor shall be
  a resident of New Hampshire. An interstate district may vote to employ
  a certified public accountant to assist the auditors in the performance
  of their duties. The auditors shall carefully examine the accounts of the
  treasurer and the directors at the close of each fiscal year, and at such
  other times whenever necessary, and report to the district whether the
  same are correctly cast and properly vouched.
  `J. SUPERINTENDENT- The superintendent of schools shall be selected by a
  majority vote of the board of school directors of the interstate district
  with the approval of both commissioners.
  `K. VACANCIES- Any vacancy among the elected officers of the district
  shall be filled by the interstate board until the next annual meeting of
  the district or other election, when a successor shall be elected to serve
  out the remainder of the unexpired term, if any. Until all vacancies on
  the interstate board are filled, the remaining members shall have full
  power to act.
`Article VI
`Appropriation and Apportionment of Funds
  `A. BUDGET- Before each annual meeting, the interstate board shall prepare
  a report of expenditures for the preceding fiscal year, an estimate of
  expenditures for the current fiscal year, and a budget for the succeeding
  fiscal year.
  `B. APPROPRIATION- The interstate board of directors shall present the budget
  report at the annual meeting. The interstate district shall appropriate a
  sum of money for the support of its schools and for the discharge of its
  obligations for the ensuing fiscal year.
  `C. APPORTIONMENT OF APPROPRIATION- Subject to the provisions of article
  VII, the interstate board shall first apply against such appropriation
  any income to which the interstate district is entitled, and shall then
  apportion the balance among the member districts in accordance with one
  of the following formulas as determined by the articles of agreement as
  amended from time to time.
  `a. All of such balance to be apportioned on the basis of the ratio that
  the fair market value of the taxable property in each member district
  bears to that of the entire interstate district; or
  `b. All of such balance to be apportioned on the basis that the average
  daily resident membership for the preceding fiscal year of each member
  district bears to that of the average daily resident membership of the
  entire interstate school district; or
  `c. A formula based on any combination of the foregoing factors. The term
  `fair market value of taxable property' shall mean the last locally assessed
  valuation of a member district in New Hampshire, as last equalized by the
  New Hampshire commissioner of revenue administration.
  `The term `fair market value of taxable property' shall mean the equalized
  grand list of a Maine member district, as determined by the Maine Bureau
  of Taxation.
  `Such assessed valuation and grand list may be further adjusted by
  elimination of certain types of taxable property from one or the other
  or otherwise, in accordance with the articles of agreement, in order that
  the fair market value of taxable property in each state shall be comparable.
  `Average daily resident membership of the interstate district in the
  first instance shall be the sum of the average daily resident membership
  of the member districts in the grades involved for the preceding fiscal
  year where no students were enrolled in the interstate district schools
  for such preceding fiscal year.
  `D. SHARE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE MEMBER DISTRICT- The interstate board shall
  certify the share of a New Hampshire member district of the total
  appropriation to the school board of each member district which shall
  add such sum to the amount appropriated by the member district itself
  for the ensuing year and raise such sum in the same manner as though the
  appropriation had been voted at a school district meeting of the member
  district. The interstate district shall not set up its own capital reserve
  funds; but a New Hampshire member district may set up a capital reserve
  fund in accordance with RSA 35, to be turned over to the interstate
  district in payment of the New Hampshire member district's share of any
  anticipated obligations.
  `E. SHARE OF MAINE MEMBER DISTRICT- The interstate board shall certify
  the share of a Maine member district of the total appropriation to the
  school board of each member district which shall add such sum to the amount
  appropriated by the member district itself for the ensuing year and raise
  such sum in the same manner as though the appropriation had been voted at
  a school district meeting of the member district.
`Article VII
`Borrowing
  `A. INTERSTATE DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS- Indebtedness of an interstate district
  shall be a general obligation of the district and shall be a joint and
  several general obligation of each member district, except that such
  obligations of the district and its member districts shall not be deemed
  indebtedness of any member district for the purposes of determining its
  borrowing capacity under Maine or New Hampshire law. A member district which
  withdraws from an interstate district shall remain liable for indebtedness
  of the interstate district which is outstanding at the time of withdrawal
  and shall be responsible for paying its share of such indebtedness to the
  same extent as though it had not withdrawn.
  `B. TEMPORARY BORROWING- The interstate board may authorize the borrowing
  of money by the interstate district (1) in anticipation of payments of
  operating and capital expenses by the member districts to the interstate
  district and (2) in anticipation of the issue of bonds or notes of the
  interstate district which have been authorized for the purpose of financing
  capital projects. Such temporary borrowing shall be evidenced by interest
  bearing or discounted notes of the interstate district. The amount of notes
  issued in any fiscal year in anticipation of expense payments shall not
  exceed the amount of such payments received by the interstate district
  in the preceding fiscal year. Notes issued under this paragraph shall
  be payable within one year in the case of notes under clause (1) and 3
  years in the case of notes under clause (2) from their respective dates,
  but the principal of and interest on notes issued for a shorter period may
  be renewed or paid from time to time by the issue of other notes, provided
  that the period from the date of an original note to the maturity of any
  note issued to renew or pay the same debt shall not exceed the maximum
  period permitted for the original loan.
  `C. BORROWING FOR CAPITAL PROJECTS- An interstate district may incur debt
  and issue its bonds or notes to finance capital projects. Such projects may
  consist of the acquisition or improvement of land and buildings for school
  purposes, the construction, reconstruction, alteration or enlargement of
  school buildings and related school facilities, the acquisition of equipment
  of a lasting character and the payment of judgments. No interstate district
  may authorize indebtedness in excess of 10 percent of the total fair market
  value of taxable property in its member districts as defined in article
  VI. The primary obligation of the interstate district to pay indebtedness
  of member districts shall not be considered indebtedness of the interstate
  district for the purpose of determining its borrowing capacity under this
  section. Bonds or notes issued under this section shall mature in equal or
  diminishing installments of principal payable at least annually commencing
  no later than 2 years and ending not later than 30 years after their dates.
  `D. AUTHORIZATION- An interstate district shall authorize the incurring
  of debts to finance capital projects by a majority vote of the district
  passed at an annual or special district meeting. Such vote shall be taken by
  secret ballot after full opportunity for debate, and any such vote shall
  be subject to reconsideration and further action by the district at the
  same meeting or at an adjourned session thereof.
  `E. SALE OF BONDS AND NOTES- Bonds and notes which have been authorized
  under this article may be issued from time to time and shall be sold at
  not less than par and accrued interest at public or private sale by the
  chairman of the school board and by the treasurer. Interstate district bonds
  and notes shall be signed by the said officers, except that either one
  of the 2 required signatures may be a facsimile. Subject to this compact
  and the authorizing vote, they shall be in such form, bear such rates of
  interest and mature at such times as the said officers may determine. Bonds
  shall, but notes need not, bear the seal of the interstate district, or
  a facsimile of such seal. Any bonds or notes of the interstate district
  which are properly executed by the said officers shall be valid and binding
  according to their terms notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof
  such officers may have ceased to be officers of the interstate district.
  `F. PROCEEDS OF BONDS- Any accrued interest received upon delivery of
  bonds or notes of an interstate district shall be applied to the payment
  of the first interest which becomes due thereon. The other proceeds of
  the sale of such bonds or notes, other than temporary notes, including any
  premiums, may be temporarily invested by the interstate district pending
  their expenditure; and such proceeds, including any income derived from the
  temporary investment of such proceeds, shall be used to pay the costs of
  issuing and marketing the bonds or notes and to meet the operating expenses
  or capital expenses in accordance with the purposes for which the bonds or
  notes were issued or, by proceedings taken in the manner required for the
  authorization of such debt, for other purposes for which such debt could be
  incurred. No purchaser of any bonds or notes of an interstate district shall
  be responsible in any way to see to the application of the proceeds thereof.
  `G. STATE AID PROGRAMS- As used in this section the term `initial aid'
  shall include New Hampshire and Maine financial assistance with respect
  to a capital project, or the means of financing a capital project, which
  is available in connection with construction costs of a capital project
  or which is available at the time indebtedness is incurred to finance
  the project. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition,
  initial aid shall specifically include a New Hampshire state guarantee under
  RSA 195-B with respect to bonds or notes and Maine construction aid under
  section 3457. As used in this section the term `long-term aid' shall include
  New Hampshire and Maine financial assistance which is payable periodically
  in relation to capital costs incurred by an interstate district. Without
  limiting the generality of the foregoing definition, long-term aid shall
  specifically include New Hampshire school building aid under RSA 198 and
  Maine school building aid under section 3457. For the purpose of applying
  for, receiving and expending initial aid and long-term aid an interstate
  district shall be deemed a native school district by each state, subject
  to the following provisions. When an interstate district has appropriated
  money for a capital project, the amount appropriated shall be divided into
  a Maine share and a New Hampshire share in accordance with the capital
  expense apportionment formula in the articles of agreement as though the
  total amount appropriated for the project was a capital expense requiring
  apportionment in the year the appropriation is made. New Hampshire initial
  aid shall be available with respect to the amount of the New Hampshire share
  as though it were authorized indebtedness of a New Hampshire cooperative
  school district. In the case of a state guarantee of interstate district
  bonds or notes under RSA 195-B, the interstate district shall be eligible
  to apply for and receive an unconditional state guarantee with respect to
  an amount of its bonds or notes which does not exceed 50 percent of the
  amount of the New Hampshire share as determined above. Maine aid shall
  be available with respect to the amount of the Maine share as though
  it were funds voted by a Maine school district. Payments of Maine aid
  shall be made to the interstate district, and the amount of any borrowing
  authorized to meet the appropriation for the capital project shall be reduced
  accordingly. New Hampshire and Maine long-term aid shall be payable to the
  interstate district. The amounts of long-term aid in each year shall be
  based on the New Hampshire and Maine shares of the amount of indebtedness
  of the interstate district which is payable in that year and which has
  been apportioned in accordance with the capital expense apportionment
  formula in the articles of agreement. The New Hampshire aid shall be
  payable at the rate of 45 percent if there are 3 or less New Hampshire
  members in the interstate district, and otherwise it shall be payable as
  though the New Hampshire members were a New Hampshire cooperative school
  district. New Hampshire and Maine long-term aid shall be deducted from the
  total capital expenses for the fiscal year in which the long-term aid is
  payable, and the balance of such expenses shall be apportioned among the
  member districts. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, New Hampshire
  and Maine may at any time change their state school aid programs that are
  in existence when this compact takes effect and may establish new programs,
  and any legislation for these purposes may specify how such programs shall
  be applied with respect to interstate districts.
  `H. TAX EXEMPTION- Bonds and notes of an interstate school district shall
  be exempt from local property taxes in both states, and the interest or
  discount thereon and any profit derived from the disposition thereof shall
  be exempt from personal income taxes in both states.
`Article VIII
`Taking Over of Existing Property
  `A. POWER TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY OF MEMBER DISTRICT- The articles of agreement,
  or an amendment thereof, may provide for the acquisition by an interstate
  district from a member district of all or a part of its existing plant
  and equipment.
  `B. VALUATION- The articles of agreement, or the amendment, shall provide
  for the determination of the value of the property to be acquired in one
  or more of the following ways:
  `a. A valuation set forth in the articles of agreement or the amendment.
  `b. By appraisal, in which case, one appraiser shall be appointed by each
  commissioner, and a third appraiser appointed by the first 2 appraisers.
  `C. REIMBURSEMENT TO MEMBER DISTRICT- The articles of agreement shall specify
  the method by which the member district shall be reimbursed by the interstate
  district for the property taken over, in one or more of the following ways:
  `a. By one lump sum, appropriated, allocated and raised by the interstate
  district in the same manner as an appropriation for operating expenses.
  `b. In installments over a period of not more than 20 years, each of which
  is appropriated, allocated and raised by the interstate district in the
  same manner as an appropriation for operating expenses.
  `c. By an agreement to assume or reimburse the member district for all
  principal and interest on any outstanding indebtedness originally incurred
  by the member district to finance the acquisition and improvement of the
  property, each such installment to be appropriated, allocated and raised
  by the interstate district in the same manner as an appropriation for
  operating expenses.
  `The member district transferring the property shall have the same obligation
  to pay to the interstate district its share of the cost of such acquisition,
  but may offset its right to reimbursement.
`Article IX
`Amendments to Articles of Agreement
  `A. Amendments to the articles of agreement may be adopted in the same manner
  provided for the adoption of the original articles of agreement, except that:
  `a. Unless the amendment calls for the addition of a new member district,
  the functions of the planning committee shall be carried out by the
  interstate district board of directors.
  `b. If the amendment proposes the addition of a new member district,
  the planning committee shall consist of all the members of the interstate
  board and all of the members of the school board of the proposed new member
  district or districts. In such case the amendment shall be submitted to
  the voters at an interstate district meeting, at which an affirmative vote
  of  2/3  of those present and voting shall be required. The articles of
  agreement together with the proposed amendment shall be submitted to the
  voters of the proposed new member district at a meeting thereof, at which
  a simple majority of those present and voting shall be required.
  `c. In all cases an amendment may be adopted on the part of an interstate
  district upon the affirmative vote of voters thereof at a meeting voting
  as one body. Except where the amendment proposes the admission of a new
  member district, a simple majority of those present and voting shall be
  required for adoption.
  `d. No amendment to the articles of agreement may impair the rights of
  bond or note holders or the power of the interstate district to procure
  the means for their payment.
`Article X
`Applicability of New Hampshire Laws
  `A. GENERAL SCHOOL LAWS- With respect to the operation and maintenance
  of any school of the district located in New Hampshire, New Hampshire law
  shall apply except as otherwise provided in this compact and except that the
  powers and duties of the school board shall be exercised and discharged by
  the interstate board and the powers and duties of the union superintendent
  shall be exercised and discharged by the interstate district superintendent.
  `B. NEW HAMPSHIRE STATE AID- A New Hampshire school district shall be
  entitled to receive an amount of state aid for operating expenditures as
  though its share of the interstate district's expenses were the expenses
  of the New Hampshire member district, and as though the New Hampshire
  member district pupils attending the interstate school were attending a New
  Hampshire cooperative school district's school. The state aid shall be paid
  to the New Hampshire member school district to reduce the sums which would
  otherwise be required to be raised by taxation within the member district.
  `C. CONTINUED EXISTENCE OF NEW HAMPSHIRE MEMBER SCHOOL DISTRICT- A
  New Hampshire member school district shall continue in existence, and
  shall have all of the powers and be subject to all of the obligations
  imposed by law and not herein delegated to the interstate district. If the
  interstate district incorporates only a part of the schools in the member
  school district, then the school board of the member school district shall
  continue in existence and it shall have all of the powers and be subject
  to all of the obligations imposed by law on it and not herein delegated to
  the district. However, if all of the schools in the member school district
  are incorporated into the interstate school district, then the member or
  members of the interstate board representing the member district shall
  have all of the powers and be subject to all of the obligations imposed
  by law on the members of a school board for the member district and not
  herein delegated to the interstate district. The New Hampshire member
  school district shall remain liable on its existing indebtedness; and
  the interstate school district shall not become liable therefor, unless
  the indebtedness is specifically assumed in accordance with the articles
  of agreement. Any trust funds or capital reserve funds and any property
  not taken over by the interstate district shall be retained by the New
  Hampshire member district and held or disposed of according to law. If all
  of the schools in a member district are incorporated into an interstate
  district, then no annual meeting of the member district shall be required
  unless the members of the interstate board from the member district shall
  determine that there is occasion for such an annual meeting.
  `D. SUIT AND SERVICE OF PROCESS IN NEW HAMPSHIRE- The courts of New
  Hampshire shall have the same jurisdiction over the district as though
  a New Hampshire member district were a party instead of the interstate
  district. The service necessary to institute suit in New Hampshire shall
  be made on the district by leaving a copy of the writ or other proceedings
  in hand or at the last usual place of abode of one of the directors who
  resides in New Hampshire, and by mailing a like copy to the clerk and to
  one other director by certified mail with return receipt requested.
  `E. EMPLOYMENT- Each employee of an interstate district assigned to a
  school located in New Hampshire shall be considered an employee of a New
  Hampshire school district for the purpose of the New Hampshire teachers
  retirement system, the New Hampshire state employees retirement system,
  the New Hampshire workmen's compensation law and any other law relating
  to the regulation of employment or the provision of benefits for employees
  of New Hampshire school districts except as follows:
  `a. A teacher in a New Hampshire member district may elect to remain a
  member of the New Hampshire retirement system, even though assigned to
  teach in an interstate school in Maine.
  `b. Employees of interstate districts designated as professional or
  instructional staff members, as defined in article I, may elect to
  participate in the teachers retirement system of either the State of New
  Hampshire or the State of Maine but in no case will they participate in
  both retirement systems simultaneously.
  `c. It shall be the duty of the superintendent in an interstate district to:
  `(1) advise teachers and other professional staff employees contracted
  for the district about the terms of the contract and the policies and
  procedures of the retirement systems;
  `(2) see that each teacher or professional staff employee selects the
  retirement system of his choice at the time his contract is signed;
  `(3) provide the commissioners of education in New Hampshire and in Maine
  with the names and other pertinent information regarding each staff member
  under his jurisdiction so that each may be enrolled in the retirement
  system of his preference.
`Article XI
`Applicability of Maine Laws
  `A. GENERAL SCHOOL LAWS- With respect to the operation and maintenance of
  any school of the district located in Maine, the provisions of Maine law
  shall apply except as otherwise provided in this compact and except that
  the powers and duties of the school board shall be exercised and discharged
  by the interstate board and the powers and duties of the superintendent
  shall be exercised and discharged by the interstate district superintendent.
  `B. MAINE STATE AID- A Maine school district shall be entitled to receive
  such amount of state aid for operating expenditures as though its share of
  the interstate district's expenses were the expenses of the Maine member
  district, and as though the Maine member district pupils attending the
  interstate schools were attending a Maine unit. Such state aid shall be
  paid to the Maine member school district to reduce the sums which would
  otherwise be required to be raised by taxation within the member district.
  `C. CONTINUED EXISTENCE OF MAINE SCHOOL DISTRICTS- A Maine school district
  shall continue in existence, and shall have all of the powers and be subject
  to all of the obligations imposed by law and not herein delegated to the
  interstate district. If the interstate district incorporates only a part
  of the schools in the member school district, then the school board of the
  member school districts shall continue in existence and it shall have all
  of the powers and be subject to all of the obligations imposed by law on it
  and not herein delegated to the district. However, if all of the schools
  in the member school district are incorporated into the interstate school
  district, then the member or members of the interstate board representing the
  member district shall have all of the powers and be subject to all of the
  obligations imposed by law on the members of a school board for the member
  district and not herein delegated to the interstate district. The Maine
  member school district shall remain liable on its existing indebtedness;
  and the interstate school district shall not become liable therefor. Any
  trust funds and any property not taken over shall be retained by the Maine
  member school district and held or disposed of according to law.
  `D. SUIT AND SERVICE OF PROCESS IN MAINE- The courts of Maine shall have
  the same jurisdiction over the districts as though a Maine member district
  were a party instead of the interstate district. The service necessary to
  institute suit in Maine shall be made on the district by leaving a copy
  of the writ or other proceedings in hand or at the last and usual place
  of abode of one of the directors who resides in Maine, and by mailing a
  like copy to the clerk and to one other director by certified mail with
  return receipt requested.
  `E. EMPLOYMENT- Each employee of an interstate district assigned to
  a school located in Maine shall be considered an employee of a Maine
  school district for the purpose of the state retirement system, the Maine
  workmen's compensation law, and any other laws relating to the regulation
  of employment or the provision of benefits for employees of Maine school
  districts except as follows:
  `a. A teacher in a Maine member district may elect to remain a member of
  the state retirement system of Maine, even though assigned to teach in an
  interstate school in New Hampshire.
  `b. Employees of interstate districts designated as professional or
  instructional staff members, as defined in article I, may elect to
  participate in the state retirement system of the State of Maine or the
  teachers retirement system of the State of New Hampshire but in no case
  will they participate in both retirement systems simultaneously.
  `c. It shall be the duty of the superintendent in an interstate district to:
  `(1) advise teachers and other professional staff employees contracted
  for the district about the terms of the contract and the policies and
  procedures of the retirement system;
  `(2) see that each teacher or professional staff employee selects the
  retirement system of his choice at the time his contract is signed;
  `(3) provide the commissioners of education in New Hampshire and in Maine
  with the names and other pertinent information regarding each staff member
  under his jurisdiction so that each may be enrolled in the retirement
  system of his preference.
`Article XII
`Miscellaneous Provisions
  `A. STUDIES- Insofar as practicable, the studies required by the laws of
  both states shall be offered in an interstate school district.
  `B. TEXTBOOKS- Textbooks and scholar's supplies shall be provided at the
  expense of the interstate district for pupils attending its schools.
  `C. TRANSPORTATION- The allocation of the cost of transportation in an
  interstate school district, as between the interstate district and the
  member districts, shall be determined by the articles of agreement.
  `D. LOCATION OF SCHOOLHOUSES- In any case where a new schoolhouse or
  other school facility is to be constructed or acquired, the interstate
  board shall first determine whether it shall be located in New Hampshire
  or in Maine. If it is to be located in New Hampshire, RSA 199, relating
  to schoolhouses, shall apply. If it is to be located in Maine, the Maine
  law relating to schoolhouses shall apply.
  `E. FISCAL YEAR- The fiscal year of each interstate district shall begin
  on July 1st of each year and end on June 30th of the following year.
  `F. IMMUNITY FROM TORT LIABILITY- Notwithstanding the fact that an interstate
  district may derive income from operating profit, fees, rentals, and other
  services, it shall be immune from suit and from liability for injury to
  persons or property and for other torts caused by it or its agents, servants
  or independent contractors, except insofar as it may have liability under
  RSA 281, relating to workmen's compensation or may have undertaken such
  liability under RSA 412:3 relating to the procurement of liability insurance
  by a governmental agency and except insofar as it may have undertaken such
  liability under Maine laws relating to workmen's compensation or Maine laws
  relating to the procurement of liability insurance by a governmental agency.
  `G. ADMINISTRATIVE AGREEMENT BETWEEN COMMISSIONERS OF EDUCATION- The
  commissioners of education of New Hampshire and Maine may enter into one
  or more administrative agreements prescribing the relationship  between the
  interstate districts, member districts, and each of the 2 state departments
  of education, in which any conflicts between the 2 states  in procedure,
  regulations, and administrative practices may be resolved.
  `H. AMENDMENTS- Neither state shall amend its legislation or any agreement
  authorized thereby without the consent of the other in such manner as to
  substantially adversely affect the rights of the other state or its people
  hereunder, or as to substantially impair the rights of the holders of any
  bonds or notes or other evidences of indebtedness then outstanding or the
  rights of an interstate school district to procure the means for payment
  thereof. Subject to the foregoing, any reference herein to other statutes
  of either state shall refer to such statute as it may be amended or revised
  from time to time.
  `I. SEPARABILITY- If any of the provisions of this compact, or legislation
  enabling the same, shall be held invalid or unconstitutional in relation
  to any of the applications thereof, such invalidity or unconstitutionality
  shall not affect other applications thereof or other provisions thereof;
  and to this end the provisions of this compact are declared to be severable.
  `J. INCONSISTENCY OF LANGUAGE- The validity of this compact shall not
  be affected by any insubstantial differences in its form or language as
  adopted by the 2 states.
`Article XIII
`Effective Date
  `A. This compact shall become effective when a bill of the Maine general
  assembly which incorporates the compact becomes a law in Maine and when
  it is approved by the United States Congress.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.