 
--H.R.2152--
H.R.2152
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations international driftnet
fishery conservation program.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `High Seas Driftnet Fisheries Enforcement Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND POLICY.
  (a) FINDINGS- Congress makes the following findings:
  (1) Large-scale driftnet fishing on the high seas is highly destructive
  to the living marine resources and ocean ecosystems of the world's oceans,
  including anadromous fish and other living marine resources of the United
  States.
  (2) The cumulative effects of large-scale driftnet fishing pose a significant
  threat to the marine ecosystem, and slow-reproducing species like marine
  mammals, sharks, and seabirds may require many years to recover.
  (3) Members of the international community have reviewed the best available
  scientific data on the impacts of large-scale pelagic driftnet fishing,
  and have failed to conclude that this practice has no significant adverse
  impacts which threaten the conservation and sustainable management of
  living marine resources.
  (4) The United Nations, via General Assembly Resolutions numbered 44-225,
  45-197, and most recently 46-215 (adopted on December 20, 1991), has
  called for a worldwide moratorium on all high seas driftnet fishing by
  December 31, 1992, in all the world's oceans, including enclosed seas and
  semi-enclosed seas.
  (5) The United Nations has commended the unilateral, regional, and
  international efforts undertaken by members of the international community
  and international organizations to implement and support the objectives
  of the General Assembly resolutions.
  (6)  Operative  paragraph  (4)  of  United  Nations General Assembly
  Resolution numbered 46-215 specifically `encourages  all  members of the
  international community to  take  measures  individually   and  collectively
  to prevent large-scale pelagic driftnet  fishing operations on the high
  seas of the world's oceans and seas'.
  (7) The United States, in section  307(1)(M) of the Magnuson  Fishery
  Conservation and Management  Act  (16 U.S.C.  1857(1)(M)),  has  specifically
  prohibited the practice of large-scale driftnet fishing by United States
  nationals  and vessels both within the exclusive economic  zone  of the
  United States and beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
  (8) The Senate,  through  Senate  Resolution 396 of the One Hundredth
  Congress (approved on March 18, 1988), has called for a moratorium on
  fishing in the Central Bering Sea and the United States has taken concrete
  steps to implement   such moratorium through international negotiations.
  (9) Despite the continued evidence of a  decline in the fishery  resources
  of the Bering Sea and the multiyear  cooperative  negotiations  undertaken
  by the United  States, the Russian Federation, Japan, and other concerned
  fishing nations, some nations refuse to agree to measures  to  reduce or
  eliminate unregulated fishing practices in the waters  of  the  Bering
  Sea beyond the exclusive  economic zones of the United States  and  the
  Russian Federation.
  (10) In  order to ensure that the global moratorium on large-scale  driftnet
  fishing  called  for in United Nations  General  Assembly  Resolution
  numbered  46-215 takes effect by December 31, 1992, and that  unregulated
  fishing  practices  in the waters of the Central  Bering Sea are reduced
  or eliminated,  the United States should take  the actions described in
  this  Act  and  encourage other nations to take similar action.
  (b) POLICY- It  is  the  stated  policy  of  the United States to--
  (1)   implement  United  Nations  General  Assembly Resolution  numbered
  46-215,  approved  unanimously  on December  20,   1991,   which  calls
  for  an  immediate cessation to further expansion  of  large-scale driftnet
  fishing, a 50 percent reduction in existing  large-scale driftnet fishing
  effort by June 30, 1992, and  a  global moratorium  on  the  use of
  large-scale driftnets beyond the exclusive economic  zone  of  any nation
  by December 31, 1992;
  (2)  bring  about a moratorium on  fishing  in  the Central Bering Sea,
  or an international conservation and management agreement  to which the
  United States and the Russian Federation are parties that regulates fishing
  in the Central Bering Sea; and
  (3)  secure  a  permanent   ban   on   the  use  of destructive   fishing
  practices,   and  in  particular large-scale  driftnets,  by  persons or
  vessels  fishing beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
TITLE I--HIGH SEAS LARGE-SCALE DRIFTNET FISHING
SEC. 101. DENIAL OF PORT PRIVILEGES AND SANCTIONS FOR HIGH SEAS LARGE-SCALE
DRIFTNET FISHING.
  (a) DENIAL OF PORT PRIVILEGES-
  (1) PUBLICATION OF LIST- Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment
  of this Act and periodically thereafter, the Secretary of Commerce, in
  consultation with the Secretary of State, shall publish a list of nations
  whose nationals or vessels conduct large-scale driftnet fishing beyond
  the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
  (2) DENIAL OF PORT PRIVILEGES- The Secretary of the Treasury shall, in
  accordance with recognized principles of international law--
  (A) withhold or revoke the clearance required by section 4197 of the Revised
  Statutes of the United States (46 App. U.S.C. 91) for any large-scale
  driftnet fishing vessel that is documented under the laws of the United
  States or of a nation included on a list published under paragraph (1); and
  (B) deny entry of that vessel to any place in the United States and to
  the navigable waters of the United States.
  (3) NOTIFICATION OF NATION- Before the publication of a list  of nations
  under paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall notify each nation
  included on that list regarding--
  (A) the effect of that publication on port privileges of vessels of that
  nation under paragraph (1); and
  (B) any sanctions or requirements, under this Act or any other law, that may
  be imposed on that nation if nationals or vessels of that nation continue
  to conduct large-scale driftnet fishing beyond the exclusive economic zone
  of any nation after December 31, 1992.
  (b) SANCTIONS-
  (1) Identifications-
  (A) INITIAL IDENTIFICATIONS- Not later than January 10, 1993, the Secretary
  of Commerce shall--
  (i) identify each nation whose nationals or vessels are conducting
  large-scale driftnet fishing beyond the exclusive economic zone of any
  nation; and
  (ii) notify the President and that nation of the identification under clause
  (i).
  (B) ADDITIONAL IDENTIFICATIONS- At  any time after  January  10, 1993,
  whenever the Secretary of Commerce has reason to believe that the nationals
  or vessels of any nation are conducting large-scale driftnet fishing beyond
  the exclusive economic zone of any nation, the Secretary of Commerce shall--
  (i) identify that nation; and
  (ii) notify the President and that nation of the identification under clause
  (i).
  (2) CONSULTATIONS- Not later than 30 days after a nation  is  identified
  under paragraph (1)(B), the President shall enter into  consultations with
  the government of that nation for the purpose of obtaining an agreement
  that will effect the immediate termination of large-scale driftnet fishing
  by the nationals or vessels of that nation beyond the exclusive economic
  zone of any nation.
  (3) PROHIBITION ON IMPORTS OF FISH AND FISH PRODUCTS AND SPORT FISHING
  EQUIPMENT-
  (A) PROHIBITION- The President--
  (i) upon receipt of notification of the identification of a nation under
  paragraph (1)(A); or
  (ii) if the consultations with the government of a nation under paragraph
  (2) are not satisfactorily concluded within ninety days, shall  direct
  the Secretary of the Treasury to prohibit the importation into the United
  States of fish and fish products and sport fishing equipment (as  that
  term is defined in section 4162 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
  (26 U.S.C. 4162)) from that nation.
  (B) IMPLEMENTATION OF PROHIBITION- With respect to an import prohibition
  directed under subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Treasury          shall
  implement such prohibition not later than the date that is forty-five
  days after the date on which the Secretary has received the direction from
  the President.
  (C) PUBLIC NOTICE OF PROHIBITION- Before the effective date of any import
  prohibition under this paragraph, the Secretary of the Treasury shall
  provide public notice of the impending prohibition.
  (4) ADDITIONAL ECONOMIC SANCTIONS-
  (A) DETERMINATION OF EFFECTIVENESS OF SANCTIONS- Not later than six months
  after the date the Secretary of Commerce identifies a nation under paragraph
  (1), the Secretary shall determine whether--
  (i) any prohibition established under paragraph (3) is insufficient to
  cause that nation to terminate large-scale driftnet fishing conducted
  by its nationals and vessels beyond the exclusive economic zone of any
  nation; or
  (ii) that nation has retaliated against the United States as a result of
  that prohibition.
  (B) CERTIFICATION- The Secretary of Commerce shall certify to the  President
  each affirmative determination under subparagraph (A) with respect to
  a nation.
  (C) EFFECT OF CERTIFICATION- Certification by the Secretary of Commerce
  under subparagraph (B) is deemed to be a certification under section  8(a)
  of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978(a)), as amended
  by this Act.
SEC. 102. DURATION OF DENIAL OF PORT PRIVILEGES AND SANCTIONS.
  Any denial of port privileges or sanction under section 101 with respect
  to a nation shall remain in effect until such time as the Secretary of
  Commerce  certifies to the President and the Congress that such nation
  has  terminated large-scale driftnet fishing by its nationals and vessels
  beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
SEC. 103. REQUIREMENTS UNDER MARINE MAMMAL PROTECTION ACT OF 1972.
  Section 101(a)(2) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16
  U.S.C. 1371(a)(2)) is amended--
  (1)  in  subparagraph (E)(i) by striking  `July  1, 1992' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `January 1, 1993'; and
  (2) in the  last  sentence  by  inserting `, except      that,  until
  January 1, 1994, the term  `driftnet'  does      not include  the  use in
  the northeast Atlantic Ocean of      gillnets with a total  length not to
  exceed five kilometers      if the use is in accordance  with regulations
  adopted by      the European Community pursuant to the October 28, 1991,
  decision by the Council of Fisheries  Ministers  of  the      Community'
  immediately after `(16 U.S.C. 1822 note)'.
SEC. 104. DEFINITIONS.
  In this title, the following definitions apply:
  (1) FISH AND FISH PRODUCTS- The term `fish and      fish  products'
  means  any aquatic  species  (including      marine  mammals and plants)
  and  all  products  thereof      exported  from a nation, whether or not
  taken by fishing      vessels  of   that   nation  or  packed,  processed,
  or      otherwise prepared for  export  in that nation or within      the
  jurisdiction thereof.
  (2) Large-scale driftnet fishing-
  (A)  IN GENERAL- Except   as   provided   in           subparagraph  (B),
  the  term `large-scale driftnet           fishing'  means  a method of
  fishing  in  which  a           gillnet composed of  a  panel or panels
  of webbing,           or a series of such gillnets,  with  a total length
  of two and one-half kilometers or more is placed in           the  water
  and allowed to drift with the  currents           and winds for the purpose
  of entangling fish in the           webbing.
  (B) EXCEPTION- Until  January  1,  1994,  the           term   `large-scale
  driftnet  fishing'  does  not           include the use in the  northeast
  Atlantic Ocean of           gillnets  with  a  total length  not  to
  exceed  five           kilometers  if  the  use   is  in  accordance  with
  regulations  adopted  by  the  European   Community           pursuant
  to the October 28, 1991, decision  by  the           Council of Fisheries
  Ministers of the Community.
  (3)  LARGE-SCALE DRIFTNET FISHING VESSEL- The term `large-scale driftnet
  fishing vessel' means any vessel which is--
  (A) used for, equipped to be used for, or of a type which is normally used
  for large-scale driftnet fishing; or
  (B) used  for  aiding or assisting one or more           vessels at
  sea in the  performance  of  large-scale           driftnet  fishing,
  including preparation,  supply,           storage,    refrigeration,
  transportation,    or           processing.
TITLE II--FISHERIES CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
SEC. 201. IMPORT RESTRICTIONS UNDER FISHERMEN'S PROTECTIVE                ACT
OF 1967.
  (a) PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO RESTRICTION- Section 8 of the Fishermen's  Protective
  Act  of 1967  (22  U.S.C.  1978)  is amended--
  (1)  in  subsection  (a)(4)   by   striking   `fish      products'  and all
  that follows through `such duration',      and inserting  in  lieu  thereof
  `any products from the offending country for any duration';
  (2) in subsection (c) by striking `fish products or wildlife products'
  and inserting in lieu thereof  `products';
  (3) in subsection (e)(2) by striking `fish products and  wildlife  products'
  and  inserting  in   lieu   thereof `products'; and
  (4) in subsection (f)--
  (A)   in   paragraph  (1)  by  striking  `fish           products and
  wildlife  products'  and  inserting in           lieu thereof `products'; and
  (B) in paragraph (5)--
  (i)  in  the  first  sentence by striking                `fish  products
  and  wildlife  products'  and                inserting in lieu thereof
  `products'; and
  (ii) in the second  sentence  by striking                `Fish  products  and
  wildlife  products'  and                inserting in lieu thereof `Products'.
  (b)   DEFINITIONS- Section   8(h)  of  the  Fishermen's Protective Act of
  1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978(h)) is amended--
  (1) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
  `(2)  The term `United States'  means  the  several      States, the
  District  of  Columbia,  Puerto  Rico,  the      Northern  Mariana  Islands,
  American  Samoa,  Guam, the      Virgin Islands, and every other territory
  and possession      of the United States.';
  (2) in paragraph (3)--
  (A)  by  inserting  `bilateral or' immediately before `multilateral'; and
  (B) by inserting `, including  marine mammals' immediately after `protect
  the living resources of the sea';
  (3) by striking paragraphs (4) and (6);
  (4)  by  redesignating  paragraphs (5) and  (7)  as paragraphs (4) and
  (5), respectively; and
  (5) by amending paragraph  (5), as so redesignated, to read as follows:
  `(5)  The term `taking', as used  with  respect  to      animals to which
  an international program for endangered      or threatened species applies,
  means to--
  `(A) harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or
  collect; or
  `(B)  attempt  to  harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap,
  capture, or collect.'.
SEC. 202. ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than six months after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard
  is operating, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Defense
  shall enter into an agreement under section 311(a) of the Magnuson Fishery
  Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1861(a)) in order to make more
  effective the enforcement of domestic laws and international agreements
  that conserve and manage the living marine resources of the United States.
  (b) TERMS- The agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall include--
  (1) procedures for identifying and providing the location of vessels that
  are in violation of domestic laws or international agreements to conserve
  and manage the living marine resources of the United States;
  (2) requirements for the use of the surveillance capabilities of the
  Department of Defense; and
  (3) procedures for communicating vessel locations to the Secretary of
  Commerce and the Coast Guard.
SEC. 203. TRADE NEGOTIATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
  It is the sense of the Congress that the President, in carrying out
  multilateral, bilateral, and regional trade negotiations, should seek to--
  (1) address environmental issues related to the negotiations;
  (2) modify articles of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (referred
  to in this section as `GATT') to take into consideration the national
  environmental laws of the GATT Contracting Parties and international
  environmental treaties;
  (3) secure a working party on trade and the environment within GATT as
  soon as possible;
  (4) take an active role in developing trade policies that make GATT more
  responsive to national and international environmental concerns;
  (5) include Federal agencies with environmental expertise during the
  negotiations to determine the impact of the proposed trade agreements on
  national environmental law; and
  (6) periodically consult with interested parties concerning the progress
  of the negotiations.
TITLE III--FISHERIES ENFORCEMENT IN CENTRAL BERING SEA
SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Central Bering Sea Fisheries Enforcement
  Act of 1992'.
SEC. 302. PROHIBITION APPLICABLE TO UNITED STATES VESSELS AND NATIONALS.
  (a) PROHIBITION- Vessels and nationals of the United States are prohibited
  from conducting fishing operations in the Central Bering Sea, except where
  such fishing operations are conducted in accordance with an international
  fishery agreement to which the United States and the Russian Federation
  are parties.
  (b) CIVIL PENALTIES AND PERMIT SANCTIONS- A violation of this section
  shall be subject to civil penalties and permit sanctions under section
  308 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1858).
SEC. 303. PORT PRIVILEGES DENIAL FOR FISHING IN CENTRAL BERING SEA.
  (a) DENIAL OF PORT PRIVILEGES- The Secretary of the Treasury shall,
  after December 31, 1992, in accordance with recognized principles of
  international law--
  (1) withhold or revoke the clearance required by section 4197 of the Revised
  Statutes of the United States (46 App. U.S.C. 91) for any fishing vessel
  documented under the laws of a nation that is included on a list published
  under subsection (b); and
  (2) deny entry of such fishing vessel to any place in the United States
  and to the navigable waters of the United States.
  (b) PUBLICATION OF LIST- Not later than forty-five days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with
  the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the department in which the
  Coast Guard is operating, shall publish in the Federal Register a list of
  nations whose nationals or vessels conduct fishing operations in the Central
  Bering Sea, except where such fishing operations are in accordance with an
  international fishery agreement to which the United States and the Russian
  Federation are parties. The Secretary shall publish as an addendum to the
  list the name of each vessel documented under the laws of each listed
  nation which conducts fishing operations in the Central Bering Sea. A
  revised list shall be published whenever the list is no longer accurate,
  except that a nation may not be removed from the list unless--
  (1) the nationals and vessels of that nation have not conducted fishing
  operations in the Central Bering Sea for the previous ninety days and
  the nation has committed, through a bilateral agreement with the United
  States or in any other manner acceptable to the Secretary of Commerce,
  not to permit its nationals or vessels to resume such fishing operations; or
  (2) the nationals and vessels of that nation are conducting fishing
  operations in the Central Bering Sea that are in accordance with an
  international fishery agreement to which the United States and the Russian
  Federation are parties.
  (c) NOTIFICATION OF NATION- Before the publication of a list of nations under
  subsection (b), the Secretary of State shall notify each nation included on
  that list and explain the requirement to deny the port privileges of fishing
  vessels of that nation under subsection (a) as a result of such publication.
SEC. 304. DURATION OF PORT PRIVILEGES DENIAL.
  Any denial of port privileges under section 303 with respect to any fishing
  vessel of a nation shall remain in effect until such nation is no longer
  listed under section 303(b).
SEC. 305. RESTRICTION ON FISHING IN UNITED STATES EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE.
  (a) REGULATIONS- Within one hundred and eighty days after the date of
  enactment of this Act, after notice and public comment, the Secretary of
  Commerce shall issue regulations, under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
  and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) and any other applicable law,
  to prohibit--
  (1) any permitted fishing vessel from catching, taking, or harvesting
  fish in a fishery under the geographical authority of the North Pacific
  Fishery Management Council if such vessel is owned or controlled by any
  person that also owns or controls a fishing vessel that is listed on the
  addendum under section 303(b);
  (2) any processing facility from receiving any fish caught, taken,
  or harvested in a fishery under the geographical authority of the North
  Pacific Fishery Management Council if such facility is owned or controlled
  by any person that also owns or controls a fishing vessel that is listed
  on the addendum under section 303(b); and
  (3) any permitted fishing vessel from delivering fish caught, taken,
  or harvested in a fishery under the geographic authority of the North
  Pacific Fishery Management Council to a processing facility that is owned
  or controlled by any person that also owns or controls a fishing vessel
  that is listed on the addendum under section 303(b).
  (b) REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMISSION OF DOCUMENTS- The Secretary of Commerce shall
  require under any regulations issued under subsection (a) the submission
  of any affidavits, financial statements, corporate agreements, and other
  documents that the Secretary of Commerce determines, after notice and
  public comment, are necessary to ensure that all vessels and processing
  facilities are in compliance with this section.
  (c) APPEALS; DURATION OF PROHIBITIONS- The regulations issued under
  subsection (a) shall--
  (1) establish procedures for a person to appeal a decision to impose a
  prohibition under subsection (a) on a vessel or processing facility owned
  or controlled by that person; and
  (2) specify procedures for the removal of any prohibition imposed on a
  vessel or processing facility under subsection (a)--
  (A) upon publication of a revised list under section 303(b), and a revised
  addendum which does not include a fishing vessel owned or controlled by
  the person who also owns or controls the vessel or facility to which the
  prohibition applies; or
  (B) on the date that is ninety days after such person terminates ownership
  and control in fishing vessels that are listed on the addendum under
  section 303(b).
SEC. 306. DEFINITIONS.
  In this title, the following definitions apply:
  (1) CENTRAL BERING SEA- The term `Central Bering Sea' means the central
  Bering Sea area which is more than two hundred nautical miles seaward of
  the baselines from which the breadth of the territorial seas of the United
  States and the Russian Federation are measured.
  (2) FISHING VESSEL- The term `fishing vessel' means any vessel which is
  used for--
  (A) catching, taking, or harvesting fish; or
  (B) aiding or assisting one or more vessels at sea in the performance of
  fishing operations, including preparation, supply, storage, refrigeration,
  transportation, or processing.
  (3) OWNS OR CONTROLS- When used in reference to a vessel or processing
  facility--
  (A) the term `owns' means holding legal title to the vessel or processing
  facility; and
  (B) the term `controls' includes an absolute right to direct the business of
  the person owning the vessel or processing facility, to limit the actions of
  or replace the chief executive officer (by whatever title), a majority of the
  board of directors, or any general partner (as applicable) of such person,
  to direct the transfer or operations of the vessel or processing facility,
  or otherwise to exercise authority over the business of such person, but the
  term does not include the right simply to participate in those activities
  of such person or the right to receive a financial return, such as interest
  or the equivalent of interest, on a loan or other financing obligation.
  (4) PERMITTED FISHING VESSEL- The term `permitted fishing vessel' means
  any fishing vessel that is subject to a permit issued by the Secretary
  of Commerce under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
  (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).
  (5) PERSON- The term `person' means any individual (whether or not a
  citizen of the United States), any corporation, partnership, association,
  cooperative, or other entity (whether or not organized under the laws of
  any State), and any State, local, or foreign government, or any entity of
  such government or the Federal Government.
  (6) PROCESSING FACILITY- The term `processing facility' means any
  fish processing establishment or fish processing vessel that receives
  unprocessed fish.
SEC. 307. TERMINATION.
  This title shall cease to have force and effect after the date that is
  seven  years after the date of enactment of this Act, except that any
  proceeding with respect to violations of section 302 occurring prior to such
  termination date shall be conducted as if that section were still in effect.
TITLE IV--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. INTERMEDIARY NATIONS INVOLVED IN EXPORT OF CERTAIN TUNA PRODUCTS.
  (a) INTERMEDIARY NATION DEFINED- Section 3 of the Marine Mammal Protection
  Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1362) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (5)
  through (14) as paragraphs (6) through (15), respectively, and by inserting
  immediately after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:
  `(5) The term `intermediary nation' means a nation that exports yellowfin
  tuna or yellowfin tuna products to the United States and that imports
  yellowfin tuna or yellowfin tuna products that are subject to a direct
  ban on importation into the United States pursuant to section 101(a)(2)(B).'.
  (b) EMBARGO ON IMPORTS FROM INTERMEDIARY NATIONS- Section 101(a)(2)(C)
  of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(2)(C))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(C) shall require the government of any intermediary nation to certify
  and provide reasonable proof to the Secretary that it has not imported,
  within the preceding six months, any yellowfin tuna or yellowfin tuna
  products that are subject to a direct ban on importation to the United
  States under subparagraph (B);'.
SEC. 402. AUTHORITY TO EXTEND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.
  For purposes of employee rights and entitlements conferred by or pursuant to
  subchapter IV of chapter 35 of title 5, United States Code, the Secretary
  of State may, notwithstanding any other law or regulation, extend the
  reemployment rights of an employee of the United States who, as of January 1,
  1992, was serving with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Such
  extension may be made for two years, and may be further extended for one
  year, if the Secretary of State determines that such service is in the
  national interest and is necessary to facilitate the activities of the
  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change or any successor organization.
SEC. 403. LIMITATION ON TERMS OF VOTING MEMBERS OF REGIONAL FISHERY MANAGEMENT
COUNCILS.
  Section 302(b)(3) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
  (16 U.S.C. 1852(b)(3)) is amended by striking `January 1, 1986' the second
  place it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `December 31, 1987'.
SEC. 404. OBSERVER FEE FOR NORTH PACIFIC FISHERIES RESEARCH PLAN.
  Section 313(b)(2)(E) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
  (16 U.S.C. 1862(b)(2)(E)) is amended by striking `one percentum, of the'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `2 percent, of the unprocessed ex-vessel'.
TITLE V--FEES
SEC. 501. RECREATIONAL BOAT TAX REPEAL.
  (a) IN GENERAL-
  (1) SCOPE OF FEE- Section 2110(b)(1) of title 46, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (A) by striking `1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, and 1995', and inserting in lieu
  thereof `1993 and 1994'; and
  (B) by striking `that is greater than 16 feet in length' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `to which paragraph (2) of this subsection applies'.
  (2) AMOUNT OF FEE- Section 2110(b)(2) of title 46, United States Code,
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) The fee or charge established under paragraph (1) of this subsection
  is as follows:
  `(A) in fiscal year 1993--
  `(i) for vessels of more than 21 feet in length but less than 27 feet,
  not more than $35;
  `(ii) for vessels of at least 27 feet in length but less than 40 feet,
  not more than $50; and
  `(iii) for vessels of at least 40 feet in length, not more than $100.
  `(B) in fiscal year 1994--
  `(i) for vessels of at least 37 feet in length but less than 40 feet,
  not more than $50; and
  `(ii) for vessels of at least 40 feet in length, not more than $100.';
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section are effective
  October 1, 1992.
SEC. 502. AUTOMATED TARIFF FILING AND INFORMATION SYSTEM.
  (a) DEFINITIONS- In this section, the following definitions apply:
  (1) COMMISSION- The term `Commission' means the Federal Maritime Commission.
  (2) COMMON CARRIER- The term `common carrier' means a common carrier under
  section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 App. U.S.C. 1702), a common
  carrier by water in interstate commerce under the Shipping Act, 1916 (46
  App. U.S.C. 801 et seq.), or a common carrier by water in intercoastal
  commerce under the Intercoastal Shipping Act, 1933 (46 App. U.S.C. 843
  et seq.).
  (3) CONFERENCE- The term `conference' has the meaning given that term
  under section 3 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 App. U.S.C. 1702).
  (4) ESSENTIAL TERMS OF SERVICE CONTRACTS- The term `essential terms of
  service contracts' means the essential terms that are required to be filed
  with the Commission and made available under section 8(c) of the Shipping
  Act of 1984 (46 App. U.S.C. 1707(c)).
  (5) TARIFF- The term `tariff' means a tariff of rates, charges,
  classifications, rules, and practices required to be filed by a common
  carrier or conference under section 8 of the Shipping Act of 1984 (46
  App. U.S.C. 1707), or a rate, fare, charge, classification, rule, or
  regulation required to be filed by a common carrier or conference under the
  Shipping Act, 1916 (46 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), or the Intercoastal Shipping
  Act, 1933 (46 App. U.S.C. 843 et seq.).
  (b) Tariff Form and Availability-
  (1) REQUIREMENT TO FILE- Notwithstanding any other law, each common
  carrier and conference shall, in accordance with subsection (c), file
  electronically with the Commission all tariffs, and all essential terms
  of service contracts, required to be filed by that common carrier or
  conference under the Shipping Act of 1984 (46 App. U.S.C. 1701 et seq.),
  the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 App. U.S.C. 801 et seq.), and the Intercoastal
  Shipping Act, 1933 (46 App. U.S.C. 843 et seq.).
  (2) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION- The Commission shall make available
  electronically to any person, without time, quantity, or other limitation,
  both at the Commission headquarters and through appropriate access from
  remote terminals--
  (A) all tariff information, and all essential  terms of service contracts,
  filed in the  Commission's Automated Tariff Filing and  Information System
  database; and
  (B) all tariff information in the System enhanced electronically by the
  Commission at any time.
  (c) FILING SCHEDULE- New tariffs and new essential terms of service contracts
  shall be filed electronically not later than July 1, 1992. All other tariffs,
  amendments to tariffs, and essential terms of service contracts shall be
  filed not later than September 1, 1992.
  (d) Fees-
  (1) AMOUNT OF FEE- The Commission shall charge, beginning July 1 of fiscal
  year 1992 and in fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995--
  (A) a fee of 46 cents for each minute of  remote computer access by
  any individual of the  information available electronically under this
  section; and
  (B)(i) for electronic copies of the Automated  Tariff Filing and Information
  System database (in  bulk), or any portion of the database, a fee  reflecting
  the cost of providing those copies,  including the cost of duplication,
  distribution,  and user-dedicated equipment; and
  (ii) for a person operating or maintaining  information in a database that
  has multiple tariff  or service contract information obtained directly  or
  indirectly from the Commission, a fee of 46  cents for each minute that
  database is subsequently  accessed by computer by any individual.
  (2) EXEMPTION FOR FEDERAL AGENCIES- A Federal agency is exempt from paying
  a fee under this subsection.
  (e) ENFORCEMENT- The Commission shall use systems controls or other
  appropriate methods to enforce subsection (d).
  (f) Penalties-
  (1) CIVIL PENALTIES- A person failing to pay a fee established under
  subsection (d) is liable to the United States Government for a civil
  penalty of not more than $5,000 for each violation.
  (2) CRIMINAL PENALTIES- A person that willfully fails to pay a fee
  established under subsection (d) commits a class A misdemeanor.
  (g) AUTOMATIC FILING IMPLEMENTATION-
  (1) CERTIFICATION OF SOFTWARE- Software that provides for the electronic
  filing of data in the Automated Tariff Filing and Information System shall
  be submitted to the Commission for certification. Not later than fourteen
  days after a person submits software to the Commission for certification,
  the Commission shall--
  (A) certify the software if it provides for the electronic filing of
  data; and
  (B) publish in the Federal Register notice of that certification.
  (2) REPAYABLE ADVANCE-
  (A) AVAILABILITY AND USE OF ADVANCE- Upon the date of enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary of the Treasury shall make available to the Commission, as
  a repayable advance, not more than $4,000,000, to remain available until
  expended. The Commission shall spend these funds to complete and upgrade
  the capacity of the Automated Tariff Filing and Information System to
  provide access to information under this section.
  (B) REQUIREMENT TO REPAY-
  (i) IN GENERAL- Any advance made to the Commission under subparagraph (A)
  shall be repaid, with interest, to the general fund of the Treasury not
  later than September 30, 1995.
  (ii) INTEREST- Interest on any advance made to the Commission under
  subparagraph (A)--
  (I) shall be at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, as of
  the close of the calendar month preceding the month in which the advance
  is made, to be equal to the current average market yield on outstanding
  marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods to
  maturity comparable to the anticipated period during which the advance
  will be outstanding; and
  (II) shall be compounded annually.
  (3) USE OF RETAINED AMOUNTS- Out of amounts collected by the Commission
  under this section, amounts shall be retained and expended by the Commission
  for each fiscal year, without fiscal year limitation, to carry out this
  section and pay back the Secretary of the Treasury for the advance made
  available under paragraph (2).
  (4) DEPOSIT IN TREASURY- Except for the amounts retained by the Commission
  under paragraph (3), fees collected under this section shall be deposited
  in the general fund of the Treasury as offsetting receipts.
  (h) RESTRICTION- No fee may be collected under this section after fiscal
  year 1995.
  (i) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 2 of the Act of August 16, 1989 (46
  App. U.S.C. 1111c), is repealed.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.