 
--H.R.5566--
H.R.5566
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide additional time to negotiate settlement of a land dispute in South
Carolina.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds the following:
 (1) Suits on possessory land claims may be commenced against tens of thousands
 of citizens in York, Lancaster, and Chester Counties, South Carolina,
 within the area claimed in the suit Catawba Indian Tribe of South Carolina
 against State of South Carolina, et al., Civil Action No. 80-2050 (D.S.C.).
 (2) Tens of thousands of such suits would be costly to all parties,
 including the Federal judicial system, and would create a burden upon
 interstate commerce.
 (3) The filing of such suits may be averted by settlement if additional
 time is made available for the parties to negotiate and implement the terms
 of settlement.
 (4) The Congress has authority to enact this legislation under the Indian
 Commerce Clause and the Interstate Commerce Clause of the Constitution;
 and the Department of Justice concurs in this construction of Article I of
 the Constitution.
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this Act is to prevent the social, economic, and judicial
 disruption that would result from the commencement of law suits against
 tens of thousands of citizens in York, Lancaster, and Chester Counties,
 South Carolina, and the burden on interstate commerce that such suits would
 impose. The parties to the above referenced suit require additional time in
 which to negotiate and implement the terms of settlement; and if such time
 is made available, it may avert the necessity of thousands of law suits. The
 purpose of this Act is not to revive, renew, or extend any claim barred by
 any period of limitation, repose, or time bar as of the effective date of
 this Act.
SEC. 3. STATUTE OF LIMITATION.
 (a) If any period of limitation or repose, or any other defense based wholly
 or partly on the passage of time, bars any claim brought by or on behalf of
 any Indian, Indian nation, or tribe or band of Indians claiming or asserting
 damages or an interest in land in York, Lancaster, or Chester Counties,
 South Carolina, under section 2116 of the Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 177;
 commonly known as the Indian Non-Intercourse Act), the Constitution of the
 United States, common law, or any treaty, as of the date of enactment of
 this Act, such period of limitation or repose, or other defense based wholly
 or partly on passage of time, shall bar any such claim, without regard to
 whether such claim has already been filed.
 (b) If any period of limitation or repose, or any other defense based
 wholly or partly on the passage of time, has not barred any claim, filed
 or unfiled, by or on behalf of an Indian, Indian nation, or tribe or band
 of Indians claiming or asserting damages or an interest in land in York,
 Lancaster, or Chester County, South Carolina, under section 2116 of the
 Revised Statutes (25 U.S.C. 177; commonly known as the Indian Non-Intercourse
 Act), the Constitution of the United States, common law, or treaty, as of
 the date of the enactment of this Act, the running of any such period of
 limitation or repose, or any other defense based wholly or partly on the
 passage of time, shall be suspended as of the date of the enactment of this
 Act until October 1, 1993. On October 1, 1993, the time upon which any such
 defenses are based shall resume running. The period of time remaining for
 any time-related defense to become a bar to any such claim shall be the
 same on October 1, 1993, as it was immediately prior to the date of the
 enactment of this Act. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
 affect the application of any period of limitation, repose, or time bar to
 the claim of any individual Indian which is pursued under any Federal or
 State law generally applicable to non-Indians as well as Indians.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.