 
--H.R.2629--
H.R.2629
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Small Business Act to assist the development of small business
concerns owned and controlled by women, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Women's Business Development Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. WOMEN'S DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
 The Small Business Act is amended by adding at the end the following new
 section:
 `SEC. 28. (a) The Administration may provide financial assistance to private
 organizations to conduct 3-year demonstration projects for the benefit
 of small business concerns owned and controlled by women. The projects
 shall provide--
 `(1) financial assistance, including training and counseling in how to
 apply for and secure business credit and investment capital, preparing and
 presenting financial statements, and managing cash flow and other financial
 operations of a business concern;
 `(2) management assistance, including training and counseling in how to plan,
 organize, staff, direct, and control each major activity and function of
 a small business concern; and
 `(3) marketing assistance, including training and counseling in identifying
 and segmenting domestic and international market opportunities, preparing
 and executing marketing plans, developing pricing strategies, locating
 contract opportunities, negotiating contracts, and utilizing varying public
 relations and advertising techniques.
 `(b)(1) As a condition of receiving financial assistance authorized by
 this section, the recipient organization shall agree to obtain, after its
 application has been approved and notice of award has been issued, cash
 contributions from non-Federal sources as follows:
 `(A) If the project first receives its Federal financial assistance prior
 to fiscal year 1993, an annual amount that  is not less than the amount of
 the Federal financial assistance provided each year.
 `(B) If the project first receives Federal financial assistance in fiscal
 year 1993, or thereafter, annual amounts equal to--
 `(i) in the first year, 1 non-Federal dollar for each 2 Federal dollars;
 `(ii) in the second year, 1 non-Federal dollar for each Federal dollar; and
 `(iii) in the third and final year, 2 non-Federal dollars for each Federal
 dollar.
 `(2) Up to one-half of the non-Federal matching assistance may be in the
 form of in-kind contributions which are budget line items only, including
 but not limited to office equipment and office space.
 `(3) The financial assistance authorized pursuant to this section may be made
 by grant, contract, or cooperative agreement and may contain such provision,
 as necessary, to provide for payments in lump sum or installments, and in
 advance or by way of reimbursement. The Administration may disburse up to
 25 percent of each year's Federal share awarded to a recipient organization
 after notice of the award has been issued and before the non-Federal matching
 funds are obtained.
 `(4) If any recipient of assistance under this section fails to obtain the
 required non-Federal contribution during any year of any project, it shall
 not be eligible thereafter for advance disbursements under paragraph (3)
 during the remainder of that project, or for any other project for which
 it is or may be funded.  In addition, prior to approving assistance to such
 organization for any other projects, the Administration shall specifically
 determine whether the Administration believes that the recipient will be
 able to obtain the requisite non-Federal funding and enter a written finding
 setting forth the reasons for making such determination.
 `(c) Each applicant for assistance under this section initially shall submit
 a 3-year plan on proposed fundraising and training activities, and may
 receive financial assistance under this section for a maximum of 3 years per
 site. The Administration shall evaluate and rank applicants in accordance
 with predetermined selection criteria that shall be stated in terms of
 relative importance. Such criteria and their relative importance shall be
 made publicly available and stated in each solicitation for applications
 made by the Administration. The criteria shall include--
 `(1) the experience of the applicant in conducting programs or on-going
 efforts designed to impart or upgrade the business skills of women business
 owners or potential owners;
 `(2) the present ability of the applicant to commence a demonstration
 project within a minimum amount of time; and
 `(3) the ability of the applicant to provide training and services to
 a representative number of women who are both socially and economically
 disadvantaged.
 `(d) For purposes of this section, the term `small business concern' means
 a small business concern, either start-up or existing, owned and controlled
 by women, and--
 `(1) which is at least 51 percent owned by 1 or more women; and
 `(2) the management and daily business operations of which are controlled
 by 1 or more women.
 `(e) There are authorized to be appropriated $4,000,000 for each
 fiscal year to carry out the demonstration projects authorized by this
 section. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administration may
 use such expedited acquisition methods as it deems appropriate to achieve
 the purposes of this section, except that it shall ensure that all eligible
 sources are provided a reasonable opportunity to submit proposals.
 `(f) The Administration shall prepare and transmit an annual report, beginning
 February 1, 1992, to the Committees on Small Business of the Senate and
 House of Representatives on the effectiveness of all demonstration projects
 conducted under the authority of this section. Such report shall provide
 information concerning--
 `(1) the number of individuals receiving assistance;
 `(2) the number of start-up business concerns formed;
 `(3) the gross receipts of assisted concerns;
 `(4) increases or decreases in profits of assisted concerns; and
 `(5) the employment increases or decreases of assisted concerns.
 `(g) The Administration shall not provide financial assistance under this
 section to any new project after October 1, 1995, except that it may fund
 projects which commenced prior thereto.'.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISION.
 Section 8 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637) is amended by striking
 subsection (c) and redesignating subsections (d) through (j) as subsections
 (c) through (k). Projects funded pursuant to the provisions of former
 subsection (c) shall be deemed to be funded under and shall be treated as
 if funded under section 28 of the Small Business Act, as added by section 2.
SEC. 4. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION OF SMALL LOAN PROGRAM.
 Section 7(a)(19)(B) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(19)(B))
 is amended by striking `during fiscal years 1989, 1990, and 1991,'.
SEC. 5. NATIONAL WOMEN'S BUSINESS COUNCIL.
 Subparagraph (G) of section 403(b) of the Women's Business Ownership Act
 of 1988 (102 Stat. 2695) is amended to read as follows:
 `(G) The Chairperson and Vice Chairperson of the council shall be designated
 by the President and may be either a representative of the public sector
 or the private sector, except that the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
 shall not be from the same sector concurrently.  Each shall serve for a
 maximum term of 2 years.  No person may be designated to the same office
 for 2 consecutive terms, nor may consecutive designees as Chairperson be
 from the public sector.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.