 
--S.1002--
S.1002
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To impose a criminal penalty for flight to avoid payment of arrearages
in child support.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Child Support Recovery Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FAILURE TO PAY LEGAL CHILD SUPPORT OBLIGATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  after chapter 11 the following new chapter:
`CHAPTER 11A--CHILD SUPPORT
`Sec.
`228. Failure to pay legal child support obligations.
`Sec. 228. Failure to pay legal child support obligations
  `(a) OFFENSE- Whoever willfully fails to pay a past due support obligation
  with respect to a child who resides in another State shall be punished as
  provided in subsection (b).
  `(b) PUNISHMENT- The punishment for an offense under this section is--
  `(1) in the case of a first offense under this section, a fine under this
  title, imprisonment for not more than 6 months, or both; and
  `(2) in any other case, a fine under this title, imprisonment for not more
  than 2 years, or both.
  `(c) RESTITUTION- Upon a conviction under this section, the court shall
  order restitution under section 3663 in an amount equal to the past due
  support obligation as it exists at the time of sentencing.
  `(d) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
  `(1) the term `past due support obligation' means any amount--
  `(A) determined under a court order or an order of an administrative
  process pursuant to the law of a State to be due from a person for the
  support and maintenance of a child or of a child and the parent with whom
  the child is living; and
  `(B) that has remained unpaid for a period longer than one year, or is
  greater than $5,000; and
  `(2) the term `State' includes the District of Columbia, and any other
  possession or territory of the United States.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The part analysis for part I of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter
  11 the following new item:
228'.
SEC. 3. DISCRETIONARY CONDITION OF PROBATION.
  Section 3563(b) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (20);
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (21) as paragraph (22); and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (20) the following new paragraph:
  `(21) comply with the terms of any court order or order of an administrative
  process pursuant to the law of a State, the District of Columbia, or any
  other possession or territory of the United States, requiring payments
  by the defendant for the support and maintenance of a child or of a child
  and the parent with whom the child is living; or'.
SEC. 4. CRIMINAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) AMENDMENT OF THE OMNIBUS CRIME CONTROL AND SAFE STREETS ACT OF 1968-
  Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42
  U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating part P as part Q;
  (2) by redesignating section 1601 as section 1701; and
  (3) by inserting after part O the following new part:
`PART P--CRIMINAL CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT
`SEC. 1601. GRANT AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance may
  make grants under this part to States, for the use by States, and local
  entities in the States to develop, implement, and enforce criminal interstate
  child support legislation and coordinate criminal interstate child support
  enforcement efforts.
  `(b)  USES OF FUNDS- Funds distributed under this part shall be used to--
  `(1) develop a comprehensive assessment of existing criminal interstate
  child support enforcement efforts, including the identification of gaps in,
  and barriers to, the enforcement of such efforts;
  `(2) plan and implement comprehensive long-range strategies for criminal
  interstate child support enforcement;
  `(3) reach an agreement within the State regarding the priorities of such
  State in the enforcement of criminal interstate child support legislation;
  `(4) develop a plan to implement such priorities; and
  `(5) coordinate criminal interstate child support enforcement efforts.
`SEC. 1602. STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request a grant under this part, the chief executive
  of a State shall submit an application to the Director in such form and
  containing such information as the Director may reasonably require.
  `(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall include assurances that Federal
  funds received under this part shall be used to supplement, not supplant,
  non-Federal funds that would otherwise be available for activities funded
  under this part.
  `(b) STATE OFFICE- The office designated under section 507 of title I--
  `(1) shall prepare the application required under section 1602; and
  `(2) shall administer grant funds received under this part, including,
  review of spending, processing, progress, financial reporting, technical
  assistance, grant adjustments, accounting, auditing, and fund disbursement.
`SEC. 1603. REVIEW OF STATE APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Bureau shall make a grant under section 1601(a)
  to carry out the projects described in the application submitted by an
  applicant under section 1602 upon determining that--
  `(1) the application is consistent with the requirements of this part; and
  `(2) before the approval of the application, the Bureau has made an
  affirmative finding in writing that the proposed project has been reviewed
  in accordance with this part.
  `(b) APPROVAL- Each application submitted under section 1602 shall be
  considered approved, in whole or in part, by the Bureau not later than
  45 days after first received unless the Bureau informs the applicant of
  specific reasons for disapproval.
  `(c) DISAPPROVAL NOTICE AND RECONSIDERATION- The Bureau shall not disapprove
  any application without first affording the applicant reasonable notice
  and an opportunity for reconsideration.
`SEC. 1604. LOCAL APPLICATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) To request funds under this part from a State, the
  chief executive of a local entity shall submit an application to the office
  designated under section 1602(b).
  `(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall be considered approved,
  in whole or in part, by the State not later than 45 days after such
  application is first received unless the State informs the applicant in
  writing of specific reasons for disapproval.
  `(3) The State shall not disapprove any application submitted to the State
  without first affording the applicant reasonable notice and an opportunity
  for reconsideration.
  `(4) If an application under paragraph (1) is approved, the local entity
  is eligible to receive funds under this part.
  `(b) DISTRIBUTION TO LOCAL ENTITIES- A State that receives funds under
  section 1601 in a fiscal year shall make such funds available to a local
  entity with an approved application within 45 days after the Bureau has
  approved the application submitted by the State and has made funds available
  to the State. The Director may waive the 45-day requirement in this section
  upon a finding that the State is unable to satisfy the requirement of the
  preceding sentence under State statutes.
`SEC. 1605. DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
  `The Federal share of a grant made under this part may not exceed 75 percent
  of the total costs of the project described in the application submitted
  under section 1602(a) for the fiscal year for which the project receives
  assistance under this part.
`SEC. 1606. EVALUATION.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- (1) Each State and local entity that receives a grant
  under this part shall submit to the Director an evaluation not later than
  March 1 of each year in accordance with guidelines issued by the Director
  and in consultation with the Director of the National Institute of Justice.
  `(2) The Director may waive the requirement specified in subsection (a)
  if the Director determines that such evaluation is not warranted in the
  case of the State or local entity involved.
  `(b) DISTRIBUTION- The Director shall make available to the public on a
  timely basis evaluations received under subsection (a).
  `(c) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS- A State or local entity may use not more than 5
  percent of the funds it receives under this part to develop an evaluation
  program under this section.
`SEC. 1607. DEFINITIONS.
  `For purposes of this part, the term `local entity' means a child support
  enforcement agency, law enforcement agency, prosecuting attorney, or unit
  of local government.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The table of contents of title I of the Omnibus
  Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is
  amended by striking the matter relating to part P and inserting the
  following:
`Part P--Criminal Child Support Enforcement
`Sec. 1601. Grant authorization.
`Sec. 1602. State applications.
`Sec. 1603. Review of State applications.
`Sec. 1604. Local applications.
`Sec. 1605. Distribution of funds.
`Sec. 1606. Evaluation.
`Sec. 1607. Definitions.
`Part Q--Transition--Effective Date--Repealer
`Sec. 1701. Continuation of rules, authorities, and proceedings.'.
  (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 1001(a) of title I of the
  Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3793(a))
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating the last three paragraphs sequentially as paragraphs
  (7), (8), and (9); and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(10) There are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of the
  fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996 to carry out projects under part P.'.
SEC. 5. COMMISSION ON CHILD AND FAMILY WELFARE.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established a commission to be known as the
  Commission on Child and Family Welfare (referred to in this section as the
  `Commission').
  (b) MEMBERSHIP-
  (1) COMPOSITION- The Commission shall be composed of 15 members of whom--
  (A) 3 shall be appointed by the President, in consultation with the Attorney
  General and the Secretary of Health and Human Services;
  (B) 4 shall be appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate;
  (C) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate;
  (D) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
  (E) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of
  Representatives.
  (2) QUALIFICATIONS- Members of the Commission shall be--
  (A) persons who have expertise in family law, children's issues, mental
  health, and related policies;
  (B) persons who have expertise, through research and practice, in laws
  and policies related to child and family welfare;
  (C) persons who represent organizations that seek to protect the civil
  rights of children;
  (D) persons who represent advocacy groups that work for the interests
  of children;
  (E) persons who represent advocacy groups that work for the interests of
  both custodial and noncustodial parents; and
  (F) persons who have conducted extensive research on, or delivered services
  to, children adversely affected by divorce.
  (3) DATE- The appointments of the members of the Commission shall be made
  no later than June 1, 1993.
  (c) PERIOD OF APPOINTMENT; VACANCIES- Members shall be appointed for the
  life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its
  powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
  (d) INITIAL MEETING- No later than 30 days after the date on which all
  members of the Commission have been appointed, the Commission shall hold
  its first meeting.
  (e) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairman.
  (f) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute
  a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
  (g) CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN- The Commission shall select a Chairman
  and Vice Chairman from among its members.
  (h) DUTIES- The Commission shall--
  (1) compile information and data on the issues that affect the best
  interests of children, including domestic issues such as abuse, family
  relations, services and agencies for children and families, family courts
  and juvenile courts;
  (2) compile a report that lists the strengths and weaknesses of the child
  welfare system as it relates to placement (including child custody and
  visitation), summarizes State laws and regulations relating to visitation,
  and makes recommendations for changing the system or developing a Federal
  role in strengthening the system;
  (3) study the strengths and weaknesses of the juvenile and family courts
  as they relate to visitation, custody, and child support enforcement and
  suggest any recommendations for changing these systems; and
  (4) study domestic issues that relate to the treatment and placement of
  children (such as child and spousal abuse) and suggest recommendations
  for any needed changes, including models for mediation and other programs.
  (i) REPORT- Not later than January 1, 1994, the Commission shall submit
  to the President and the Congress an interim report, and not later than
  January 1, 1995, a final report, which shall contain a detailed statement
  of the findings and conclusions of the Commission, together with its
  recommendations for such legislation and administrative actions as it
  considers to be appropriate.
  (j) HEARINGS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), the Commission may hold such
  hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and
  receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out
  the purposes of this section.
  (2) BROAD PUBLIC PARTICIPATION- The Commission shall conduct hearings
  in various areas of the country, including inner cities, suburbs, and
  rural areas, to gather a broad spectrum of information on the issues to
  be addressed. Parents, children, experts, religious leaders, and public
  and private agency officials shall be afforded the opportunity to give
  testimony at such hearings.
  (k) INFORMATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES- The Commission may secure directly
  from any Federal department or agency such information as the Commission
  considers necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. Upon request of
  the Chairman of the Commission, the head of such department or agency shall
  furnish such information to the Commission to the extent permitted by law.
  (l) POSTAL SERVICES- The Commission may use the United States mails in
  the same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and
  agencies of the Federal Government.
  (m) COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS- Each member of the Commission who is not
  an officer or employee of the Federal Government shall be compensated
  at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay
  prescribed for level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of
  title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel time) during
  which such member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the
  Commission. All members of the Commission who are officers or employees
  of the United States shall serve without compensation in addition to that
  received for their services as officers or employees of the United States.
  (n) TRAVEL EXPENSES- The members of the Commission shall be allowed travel
  expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized
  for employees of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5,
  United States Code, while away from their homes or regular places of
  business in the performance of services for the Commission.
  (o) STAFF-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Chairman of the Commission may, without regard to the
  civil service laws and regulations, appoint and terminate an executive
  director and such other additional personnel as may be necessary to enable
  the Commission to perform its duties. The employment of an executive
  director shall be subject to confirmation by the Commission.
  (2) COMPENSATION- The Chairman of the Commission may fix the compensation of
  the executive director and other personnel without regard to the provisions
  of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States
  Code, relating to classification of positions and General Schedule pay
  rates, except that the rate of pay for the executive director and other
  personnel may not exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive
  Schedule under section 5316 of that title.
  (p) DETAIL OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES- Any Federal Government employee may
  be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and such detail shall
  be without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
  (q) PROCUREMENT OF TEMPORARY AND INTERMITTENT SERVICES- The Chairman of the
  Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under section
  3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for individuals which do
  not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed
  for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of that title.
  (r) TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION- (1) The Commission shall terminate 90
  days after the date on which the Commission submits its final report under
  subsection (i).
  (2) Any funds held by the Commission on the date of termination of the
  Commission shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury of the
  United States and credited as miscellaneous receipts. Any property (other
  than funds) held by the Commission on that date shall be disposed of as
  excess or surplus property.
  (s) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to the Commission
  $2,000,000 for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to carry out this section.
  (2) AVAILABILITY- Any sums appropriated under the authorization contained
  in this subsection shall remain available, without fiscal year limitation,
  until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.