 
--S.1182--
S.1182
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To transfer jurisdiction of certain public lands in the State of Utah to
the Forest
Service, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Fishlake National Forest Enlargement Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds the following:
 (1) Certain public lands presently managed by the Bureau of Land Management
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `BLM') are adjacent to the Fishlake
 National Forest and are logical extensions of the forest.
 (2) Those public lands are isolated and disconnected from other BLM lands
 and have been identified through the land use planning process of the BLM
 as suitable for transfer to the Forest Service.
 (3) The Forest Service currently manages much of the livestock grazing on
 those public lands by cooperative agreement with the BLM.
 (4) Administration of those public lands as part of the Fishlake National
 Forest would allow for more efficient and economical management by both
 the Forest Service and BLM.
SEC. 3. TRANSFER.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Effective on the date of enactment of this Act, jurisdiction
 over public lands designated on the map referred to in subsection (b),
 comprising approximately 10,172.89 acres is hereby transferred to the
 Secretary of Agriculture. Such lands shall be added to and administered as
 part of the Fishlake National Forest.
 (b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION- The lands subject to this Act are those lands
 identified on a map entitled `Fishlake National Forest Enlargement', dated
 March 16, 1989, and filed, together with a legal description of such lands,
 in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, United States Department
 of Agriculture and the Director, Bureau of Land Management, Department of
 the Interior. Such map and legal description shall have the same force and
 effect as if included in this Act, except that correction of clerical and
 typographical errors in such legal description and map may be made by the
 Secretary of Agriculture in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior.
 (c) BOUNDARY- (1) The boundary of the Fishlake National Forest is hereby
 modified as indicated on the map referred to in subsection (b).
 (2) For the purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act
 of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-9), the boundary of the Fishlake National Forest,
 as modified by this Act, shall be considered to be the boundary of that
 national forest as of January 1, 1965.
SEC. 4. RIGHTS AND PERMITS.
 (a) VALID EXISTING RIGHTS- Nothing in this Act shall affect valid existing
 rights of any person under any authority of law.
 (b) AUTHORIZATIONS TO USE LANDS- Authorizations to use lands transferred
 by this Act which were issued prior to the date of transfer shall remain
 subject to the laws and regulations under which they were issued. Such
 authorizations shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture. Any
 renewal or extension of such authorizations shall be subject to the laws and
 regulations pertaining to the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture. The
 change of administrative jurisdiction resulting from the enactment of this
 Act shall not in itself constitute a basis for denying or approving the
 renewal or reissuance of any such authorization.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.