 
--S.1146--
S.1146
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish a national advanced technician training program, utilizing
the resources of the Nation's two-year associate-degree-granting colleges
to expand the pool of skilled technicians in strategic advanced-technology
fields, to increase the productivity of the Nation's industries, and to
improve the competitiveness of the United States in international trade,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the position of the United States in the world economy faces great
  challenges from highly trained foreign competition;
  (2) the workforce of the United States must be better prepared for the
  technologically advanced, competitive, global economy;
  (3) the improvement of our work force's productivity and our international
  economic position depend upon the strengthening of our educational efforts
  in science, mathematics, and technology, especially at the associate-degree
  level;
  (4) shortages of scientifically and technically trained workers in a wide
  variety of fields will best be addressed by collaboration among the Nation's
  associate-degree-granting colleges and private industry to produce skilled,
  advanced technicians; and
  (5) the National Science Foundation's traditional role in developing
  model curricula, disseminating instructional materials, enhancing faculty
  development, and stimulating partnerships between educational institutions
  and industry, makes an enlarged role for the Foundation in scientific and
  technical education and training particularly appropriate.
  (b) PURPOSES- It is the purpose of this Act to--
  (1) improve science and technical education at associate-degree-granting
  colleges;
  (2) improve secondary school and postsecondary curricula in mathematics
  and science;
  (3) improve the educational opportunities of postsecondary students by
  creating comprehensive articulation agreements and planning between 2-year
  and 4-year institutions; and
  (4) promote outreach to secondary schools to improve mathematics and
  science instruction.
SEC. 3. SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION.
  (a) NATIONAL ADVANCED SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM- The
  Director of the National Science Foundation (hereafter in this Act referred
  to as the `Director') shall award grants to associate-degree-granting
  colleges, and consortia thereof, to assist them in providing education in
  advanced-technology fields. The grant program shall place emphasis on the
  needs of students who have been in the workforce (including work in the
  home), and shall be designed to strengthen and expand the scientific and
  technical education and training capabilities of associate-degree-granting
  colleges through such methods as--
  (1) the development of model instructional programs in advanced-technology
  fields;
  (2) the professional development of faculty and instructors, both full-
  and part-time, in advanced-technology fields;
  (3) the establishment of innovative partnership arrangements that--
  (A) involve associate-degree-granting colleges and other appropriate public
  and private sector entities, and
  (B) provide for private sector donations, faculty opportunities to
  have short-term assignments with industry, sharing of program costs,
  equipment loans, and the cooperative use of laboratories, plants, and
  other facilities, and provision for state-of-the-art work experience
  opportunities for students enrolled in such programs;
  (4) the acquisition of state-of-the-art instrumentation essential to
  programs designed to prepare and upgrade students in scientific and
  advanced-technology fields; and
  (5) the development and dissemination of instructional materials in support
  of improving the advanced scientific and technical education and training
  capabilities of associate-degree-granting colleges, including programs
  for students who are not pursuing a science degree.
  (b) NATIONAL CENTERS OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION- The Director
  shall award grants for the establishment of centers of excellence, not
  to exceed 10 in number, among associate-degree-granting colleges. Centers
  shall meet one or both of the following criteria:
  (1) Exceptional instructional programs in advanced-technology fields.
  (2) Excellence in undergraduate education in mathematics and science.
The centers shall serve as national and regional clearinghouses and models
for the benefit of both colleges and secondary schools, and shall provide
seminars and programs to disseminate model curricula and model teaching
methods and instructional materials to other associate-degree-granting
colleges in the geographic region served by the center.
  (c) ARTICULATION PARTNERSHIPS-
  (1) PARTNERSHIP GRANTS- (A) The Director shall make grants to eligible
  partnerships to encourage students to pursue bachelor degrees in mathematics,
  science, engineering, or technology, and to assist students pursuing
  bachelor degrees in mathematics, science, engineering, or technology
  to make the transition from associate-degree-granting colleges to
  bachelor-degree-granting institutions, through such means as--
  (i) examining curricula to ensure that academic credit earned at the
  associate-degree-granting college is transferable to bachelor-degree-granting
  institutions;
  (ii) informing teachers from the associate-degree-granting college on
  the specific requirements of courses at the bachelor-degree-granting
  institution; and
  (iii) providing summer educational programs for students from the
  associate-degree-granting college to encourage such students' subsequent
  matriculation at bachelor-degree-granting institutions.
  (B) Each eligible partnership receiving a grant under this paragraph shall,
  at a minimum--
  (i) counsel students, including students who have been in the workforce
  (including work in the home), about the requirements and course offerings
  of the bachelor-degree-granting institution; and
  (ii) conduct workshops and orientation sessions to ensure that students are
  familiar with programs, including laboratories and financial aid programs,
  at the bachelor-degree-granting institution.
Funds used by eligible partnerships to carry out clauses (i) and (ii) shall
be from non-Federal sources. In-cash and in-kind resources used by eligible
partnerships to carry out clauses (i) and (ii) shall not be considered to
be contributions for purposes of applying subsection (f)(3).
  (C) Any institution participating in a partnership that receives a grant
  under this paragraph shall be ineligible to receive assistance under part
  B of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965 for the duration of the
  grant received under this paragraph.
  (2) OUTREACH GRANTS- The Director shall make grants to
  associate-degree-granting colleges with outstanding mathematics and
  science programs to strengthen relationships with secondary schools in
  the community served by the college by improving mathematics and science
  education and encouraging the interest and aptitude of secondary school
  students for careers in science and advanced-technology fields through
  such means as developing agreements with local educational agencies
  to enable students to satisfy entrance and course requirements at the
  associate-degree-granting college.
  (d) COORDINATION WITH OTHER FEDERAL DEPARTMENTS- In carrying out this
  section, the Director shall consult, cooperate, and coordinate, to enhance
  program effectiveness and to avoid duplication, with the programs and
  policies of other relevant Federal agencies. In carrying out subsection
  (c), the Director shall coordinate activities with programs receiving
  assistance under part B of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
  (e) LIMITATION ON FUNDING- To qualify for a grant under this section, an
  associate-degree-granting college, or consortium thereof, shall provide
  assurances adequate to the Director that it will not decrease its level
  of spending of funds from non-Federal sources on advanced scientific and
  technical education and training programs.
  (f) FUNCTIONS OF THE DIRECTOR- In carrying out this Act, the Director shall--
  (1) award grants on a competitive, merit basis;
  (2) ensure an equitable geographic distribution of grant awards;
  (3) ensure that an applicant for a grant awarded under subsection (a),
  (b), or (c)(1) will make an in-cash or in-kind contribution in an amount
  equal to at least 25 percent of the cost of the program, and for a grant
  awarded under subsection (c)(2) will make an in-cash or in-kind contribution
  in an amount at least equal to the amount of the grant award;
  (4) establish and maintain a readily accessible inventory of the programs
  assisted under this Act; and
  (5) designate an officer of the National Science Foundation to serve as
  a liaison with associate-degree-granting institutions for the purpose of
  enhancing the role of such institutions in the activities of the Foundation.
  (g) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
  (1) the term `advanced-technology' includes advanced technical
  activities such as the modernization, miniaturization, integration,
  and computerization of electronic, hydraulic, pneumatic, laser, nuclear,
  chemical, telecommunication, fiber optic, robotic, and other technological
  applications to enhance productivity improvements in manufacturing,
  communication, transportation, commercial, and similar economic and national
  security activities;
  (2) the term `associate-degree-granting college' means an institution
  of higher education (as determined under section 1201(a) of the Higher
  Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a))) that--
  (A) is a nonprofit institution that offers a 2-year associate-degree
  program or a 2-year certificate program; or
  (B) is a proprietary institution that offers a 2-year associate-degree
  program;
  (3) the term `bachelor-degree-granting institution' means an institution of
  higher education (as determined under section 1201(a) of the Higher Education
  Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a))) that offers a baccalaureate degree program;
  (4) the term `eligible partnership' means one or more
  associate-degree-granting colleges in partnership with one or more separate
  bachelor-degree-granting institutions; and
  (5) the term `local educational agency' has the meaning given such term
  in section 1471(12) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
  (20 U.S.C. 2891(12)).
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE AMENDMENT.
  Section 3 of the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 (42 U.S.C. 1862)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(g) In carrying out subsection (a)(4), the Foundation is authorized
  to foster and support access by the research and education communities
  to computer networks which may be used substantially for purposes in
  addition to research and education in the sciences and engineering, if
  the additional uses will tend to increase the overall capabilities of the
  networks to support such research and education activities.'.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated, from sums otherwise authorized
  to be appropriated, to the Director for carrying out this Act--
  (1) $35,000,000 for fiscal year 1992; and
  (2) $35,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.