 
--S.1216--
S.1216
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the adjustment of status under the Immigration and Nationality
Act of certain nationals of the People's Republic of China unless conditions
permit their return in safety to that foreign state.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Chinese Student Protection Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. ADJUSTMENT TO LAWFUL PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS OF CERTAIN NATIONALS
OF THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (c)(1), whenever an alien described
  in subsection (b) applies for adjustment of status under section 245 of
  the Immigration and Nationality Act during the application period (as
  defined in subsection (e)) the following rules shall apply with respect
  to such adjustment:
  (1) The alien shall be deemed to have had a petition approved under section
  204(a) of such Act for classification under section 203(b)(3)(A)(i) of
  such Act.
  (2) The application shall be considered without regard to whether an
  immigrant visa number is immediately available at the time the application
  is filed.
  (3) In determining the alien's admissibility as an immigrant, and the
  alien's eligibility for an immigrant visa--
  (A) paragraphs (5) and (7)(A) of section 212(a) and section 212(e) of such
  Act shall not apply; and
  (B) the Attorney General may waive any other provision of section 212(a)
  (other than paragraph (2)(C) and subparagraph (A), (B), (C), or (E) of
  paragraph (3)) of such Act with respect to such adjustment for humanitarian
  purposes, for purposes of assuring family unity, or if otherwise in the
  public interest.
  (4) The numerical level of section 202(a)(2) of such Act shall not apply.
  (5) Section 245(c) of such Act shall not apply.
  (b) ALIENS COVERED- For purposes of this section, an alien described in
  this subsection is an alien who--
  (1) is a national of the People's Republic of China described in section
  1 of Executive Order No. 12711 as in effect on April 11, 1990;
  (2) has resided continuously in the United States since April 11, 1990
  (other than brief, casual, and innocent absences); and
  (3) was not physically present in the People's Republic of China for
  longer than 90 days after such date and before the date of the enactment
  of this Act.
  (c) CONDITION; DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION-
  (1) NOT APPLICABLE IF SAFE RETURN PERMITTED- Subsection (a) shall not apply
  to any alien if the President has determined and certified to Congress,
  before the first day of the application period, that conditions in the
  People's Republic of China permit aliens described in subsection (b)(1)
  to return to that foreign state in safety.
  (2) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION- If the President has not made
  the certification described in paragraph (1) by the first day of the
  application period, the Attorney General shall, subject to the availability
  of appropriations, immediately broadly disseminate to aliens described in
  subsection (b)(1) information respecting the benefits available under this
  section. To the extent practicable, the Attorney General shall provide notice
  of these benefits to the last known mailing address of each such alien.
  (d) OFFSET IN PER COUNTRY NUMERICAL LEVEL-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The numerical level under section 202(a)(2) of the
  Immigration and Nationality Act applicable to natives of the People's
  Republic of China in each applicable fiscal year (as defined in paragraph
  (3)) shall be reduced by 1,000.
  (2) ALLOTMENT IF SECTION 202(e) APPLIES- If section 202(e) of the Immigration
  and Nationality Act is applied to the People's Republic of China in an
  applicable fiscal year, in applying such section--
  (A) 300 immigrant visa numbers shall be deemed to have been previously
  issued to natives of that foreign state under section 203(b)(3)(A)(i)
  of such Act in that year, and
  (B) 700 immigrant visa numbers shall be deemed to have been previously
  issued to natives of that foreign state under section 203(b)(5) of such
  Act in that year.
  (3) APPLICABLE FISCAL YEAR-
  (A) IN GENERAL- In this subsection, the term `applicable fiscal year'
  means each fiscal year during the period--
  (i) beginning with the fiscal year in which the application period begins;
  and
  (ii) ending with the first fiscal year by the end of which the cumulative
  number of aliens counted for all fiscal years under subparagraph (B) equals
  or exceeds the total number of aliens whose status has been adjusted under
  section 245 of the Immigration and Nationality Act pursuant to subsection
  (a).
  (B) NUMBER COUNTED EACH YEAR- The number counted under this subparagraph for
  a fiscal year (beginning during or after the application period) is 1,000,
  plus the number (if any) by which (i) the immigration level
under section 202(a)(2) of the Immigration and Nationality Act for the People's
Republic of China in the fiscal year (as reduced under this subsection),
exceeds (ii) the number of aliens who were chargeable to such level in
the year.
  (e) APPLICATION PERIOD DEFINED- In this section, the term `application
  period' means the 12-month period beginning July 1, 1993.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.