 
--S.1254--
S.1254
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To increase the authorized acreage limit for the Assateague Island National
Seashore
on the Maryland mainland, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. INCREASE IN ACREAGE LIMIT FOR ASSATEAGUE ISLAND.
 The Act entitled `An Act to provide for the establishment of the Assateague
 Island National Seashore in the States of Maryland and Virginia, and for
 other purposes', approved September 21, 1965 (16 U.S.C. 459f-1), is amended
 as follows:
 (1) Amend the second sentence of subsection (a) of section 2 to read as
 follows: `The Secretary is authorized to include within the boundaries of
 the seashore, not to exceed 112 acres of land or interests therein on the
 mainland in Worcester County, Maryland.'.
 (2) Amend the last sentence of subsection (a) of section 2 to read as follows:
 `Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any Federal property located
 within the boundaries of the seashore may, with the concurrence of the
 agency having custody thereof, be transferred without consideration to the
 administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for purposes of the seashore.'.
 (3) Add the following at the end of subsection (b) of section 2:
 `Notwithstanding the acreage limitation set forth in this Act, the Secretary
 is authorized to accept the donation of a scenic easement covering the parcel
 of land adjacent to the seashore and known as the `Woodcock Property'.'.
 (4) Amend the first sentence of subsection (b) of section 2 to read as
 follows: `When acquiring lands by exchange, the Secretary may accept title to
 any non-Federal property within the boundaries of the seashore and convey
 to the grantor of such property any federally owned property under the
 jurisdiction of the Secretary which the Secretary classifies suitable for
 exchange or other disposal, and which is located in Maryland or Virginia.'.
 (5) Amend section 6 by adding the following new subsection at the end thereof:
 `(c) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with
 local, State, and Federal agencies and with educational institutions and
 nonprofit entities to coordinate research designed to ensure full protection
 of the natural and cultural resources of the seashore, consistent with
 the purposes for which the seashore was established, and other applicable
 law. The Secretary is also authorized to provide technical assistance
 to local, State, and Federal agencies and to educational institutions
 and non-profit entities in order to further such purposes. The Secretary
 shall submit a report every two years to the Congress on the results of
 the coordinated research program authorized by this section and plans to
 implement the recommendations arising from such research.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.