 
--S.1306--
S.1306
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Public Health Service Act to restructure the Alcohol, Drug Abuse,
and Mental Health Administration and the authorities of such Administration,
including establishing separate block grants to enhance the delivery of
services regarding substance abuse and mental health, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `ADAMHA Reorganization Act'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
TITLE I--REORGANIZATION OF ADMINISTRATION AND INSTITUTES
Subtitle A--Administration
Sec. 101. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
Sec. 102. Advisory councils.
Sec. 103. Reports on alcoholism, alcohol abuse, and drug abuse.
Sec. 104. Peer review.
Sec. 105. Data collection.
Sec. 106. Grants for the benefit of homeless individuals.
Sec. 107. Center for substance abuse treatment.
Sec. 108. Programs for pregnant and postpartum women.
Sec. 109. Demonstration projects of national significance.
Sec. 110. Grants for substance abuse treatment in State and local criminal
justice systems.
Sec. 111. Training in provision of treatment services.
Sec. 112. Alternative utilization of military facilities.
Sec. 113. Center for Substance Abuse Prevention.
Sec. 114. Prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation model projects for high
risk youth.
Sec. 115. Center for Mental Health Services.
Sec. 116. Grant program for demonstration projects.
Sec. 117. National mental health education.
Sec. 118. Demonstration projects with respect to certain individuals.
Sec. 119. Childhood mental health.
Sec. 120. Striking of certain provisions and technical and conforming
amendments.
Subtitle B--Institutes
Sec. 121. Organization of National Institutes of Health.
Sec. 122. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
Sec. 123. National Institute on Drug Abuse.
Sec. 124. National Institute of Mental Health.
Sec. 125. Collaborative use of certain health services research funds.
Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to Substance Abuse and Mental
Health
Sec. 131. Miscellaneous provisions relating to substance abuse and mental
health.
Subtitle D--Transfer Provisions
Sec. 141. Transfers.
Sec. 142. Transfer and allocations of appropriations and personnel.
Sec. 143. Incidental transfers.
Sec. 144. Effect on personnel.
Sec. 145. Savings provisions.
Sec. 146. Transition.
Sec. 147. Peer review.
Sec. 148. Mergers.
Sec. 149. Conduct of multi-year research projects.
Sec. 150. Separability.
Sec. 151. Budgetary authority.
Subtitle E--References and Conforming Amendments
Sec. 161. References.
Sec. 162. Transition from homelessness.
Sec. 163. Conforming amendments.
Subtitle F--Employee Assistance Programs
Sec. 171. Program of grants under Center for Substance Abuse Treatment.
TITLE II--BLOCK GRANTS TO STATES REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Sec. 201. Establishment of separate block grant regarding mental health.
Sec. 202. Establishment of separate block grant regarding substance abuse.
Sec. 203. General provisions regarding block grants.
Sec. 204. Related programs.
Sec. 205. Temporary provisions regarding funding.
TITLE III--MODEL COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM FOR TREATMENT OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Sec. 301. Demonstration program in national capital area.
TITLE IV--CHILDREN OF SUBSTANCE ABUSERS
Sec. 401. Establishment of program of services.
TITLE V--HOME-VISITING SERVICES FOR AT-RISK FAMILIES
Sec. 501. Statement of purpose.
Sec. 502. Establishment of program of grants.
TITLE VI--TRAUMA CENTERS AND DRUG-RELATED VIOLENCE
Sec. 601. Establishment of program of grants.
Sec. 602. Conforming amendments.
TITLE VII--STUDIES
Sec. 701. Report by the institute on medicine.
Sec. 702. Sense of the Senate.
Sec. 703. Provision of mental health services to individuals in correctional
facilities.
Sec. 704. Study of barriers to insurance coverage of treatment for mental
illness and substance abuse.
Sec. 705. Study on fetal alcohol effect and fetal alcohol syndrome.
Sec. 706. Study by National Academy of Sciences.
Sec. 707. Report on allotment formula.
Sec. 708. Report by Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.
TITLE VIII--GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 801. Effective dates.
TITLE I--REORGANIZATION OF ADMINISTRATION AND INSTITUTES
Subtitle A--Administration
SEC. 101. SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 501 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa)
 is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 501. SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration (hereafter referred to in this title as the `Administration')
 is an agency of the Service.
 `(b) AGENCIES- The following entities are agencies of the Administration:
 `(1) The Center for Substance Abuse Treatment.
 `(2) The Center for Substance Abuse Prevention.
 `(3) The Center for Mental Health Services.
 `(c) ADMINISTRATOR AND DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR-
 `(1) ADMINISTRATOR- The Administration shall be headed by an Administrator
 (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `Administrator') who shall be
 appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
 `(2) DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR- The Administrator, with the approval of the
 Secretary, may appoint a Deputy Administrator and may employ and prescribe
 the functions of such officers and employees, including attorneys, as
 are necessary to administer the activities to be carried out through the
 Administration.
 `(d) AUTHORITIES- The Secretary, acting through the Administrator, shall--
 `(1) supervise the functions of the agencies of the Administration in order
 to assure that the programs carried out through each such agency receive
 appropriate and equitable support and that there is cooperation among the
 agencies in the implementation of such programs;
 `(2) establish and implement, through the respective agencies, a comprehensive
 program to improve the provision of treatment and related services to
 individuals with respect to substance abuse and mental illness and to improve
 prevention services, promote mental health and protect the legal rights of
 individuals with mental illnesses and individuals who are substance abusers;
 `(3) carry out the administrative and financial management, policy development
 and planning, evaluation, knowledge dissemination, and public information
 functions that are required for the implementation of this title;
 `(4) assure that the Administration conduct and coordinate demonstration
 projects, evaluations, and service system assessments and other activities
 necessary to improve the availability and quality of treatment, prevention
 and related services;
 `(5) support activities that will improve the provision of treatment,
 prevention and related services, including the development of national
 mental health and substance abuse goals and model programs;
 `(6) in cooperation with the National Institutes of Health, the Centers for
 Disease Control and the Health Resources and Services Administration develop
 educational materials and intervention strategies to reduce the risks of
 HIV or tuberculosis among substance abusers and individuals with mental
 illness and to develop appropriate mental health services for individuals
 with such illnesses;
 `(7) coordinate Federal policy with respect to the provision of treatment
 services for substance abuse utilizing anti-addiction medications, including
 methadone;
 `(8) conduct programs, and assure the coordination of such programs with
 activities of the National Institutes of Health and the Agency for Health
 Care Policy Research, as appropriate, to evaluate the process, outcomes and
 community impact of treatment and prevention services and systems of care
 in order to identify the manner in which such services can most effectively
 be provided;
 `(9) collaborate with the Director of the National Institutes of Health  in
 the development of a system by which the relevant research findings of the
 National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
 Alcoholism, the National Institute of Mental Health, and, as appropriate,
 the Agency for Health Care Policy Research are disseminated to service
 providers in a manner designed to improve the delivery and effectiveness
 of treatment and prevention services;
 `(10) encourage public and private entities that provide health insurance
 to provide benefits for substance abuse and mental health services;
 `(11) promote the integration of substance abuse and mental health services
 into the mainstream of the health care delivery system of the United States;
 `(12) monitor compliance by hospitals and other facilities with the
 requirements of sections 542 and 543;
 `(13) with respect to grant programs authorized under this title, assure
 that--
 `(A) all grants that are awarded for the provision of services are subject
 to performance and outcome evaluations; and
 `(B) all grants that are awarded to entities other than States are awarded
 only after the State in which the entity intends to provide services--
 `(i) is notified of the pendency of the grant application; and
 `(ii) is afforded an opportunity to comment on the merits of the application;
 `(14) assure that services provided with amounts appropriated under this
 title are provided bilingually, if appropriate;
 `(15) improve coordination among prevention programs, treatment facilities
 and nonhealth care systems such as employers, labor unions, and schools,
 and encourage the adoption of employee assistance programs and student
 assistance programs;
 `(16) maintain a clearinghouse for substance abuse and mental health
 information to assure the widespread dissemination of such information
 to States, political subdivisions, educational agencies and institutions,
 treatment providers, and the general public;
 `(17) in collaboration with the National Institute on Aging, and in
 consultation with the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute
 on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and the National Institute of Mental Health,
 as appropriate, promote and evaluate substance abuse services for older
 Americans in need of such services, and mental health services for older
 Americans who are seriously mentally ill; and
 `(18) promote the coordination of service programs conducted by other
 departments, agencies, organizations and individuals that are or may be
 related to the problems of individuals suffering from mental illness or
 substance abuse, including liaisons with the Social Security Administration,
 Health Care Financing Administration, and other programs of the Department,
 as well as liaisons with the Department of Education, Department of Justice,
 and other Federal Departments and offices, as appropriate.
 `(e) ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR ALCOHOL PREVENTION AND TREATMENT POLICY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- There shall be in the Administration an Associate
 Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy to whom the
 Administrator shall delegate the functions of promoting, monitoring, and
 evaluating service programs for the prevention and treatment of alcoholism and
 alcohol abuse within the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, the Center
 for Substance Abuse Treatment, and the Center for Mental Health Services,
 and coordinating such programs among the Centers, and among the Centers
 and other public and private entities. The Associate Administrator also
 shall ensure that alcohol prevention, education, and policy strategies are
 integrated into all programs of the Centers that address substance abuse
 prevention, education, and policy, and that the Center for Substance Abuse
 Prevention addresses the Healthy People 2000 goals and the National Dietary
 Guidelines of the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department
 of Agriculture related to alcohol consumption.
 `(2) PLAN-
 `(A) The Administrator, acting through the Associate Administrator for
 Alcohol Prevention and Treatment Policy, shall develop, and periodically
 review and as appropriate revise, a plan for programs and policies to treat
 and prevent alcoholism and alcohol abuse. The plan shall be developed (and
 reviewed and revised) in collaboration with the Directors of the Centers
 of the Administration and in consultation with members of other Federal
 agencies and public and private entities.
 `(B) Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the ADAMHA
 Reorganization Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Congress the
 first plan developed under subparagraph (A).
 `(3) REPORT-
 `(A) Not less than once during each 2 years, the Administrator, acting
 through the Associate Administrator for Alcohol Prevention and Treatment
 Policy, shall prepare a report describing the alcoholism and alcohol abuse
 prevention and treatment programs undertaken by the Administration and
 its agencies, and the report shall include a detailed statement of the
 expenditures made for the activities reported on and the personnel used in
 connection with such activities.
 `(B) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall include a description of any
 revisions in the plan under paragraph (2) made during the preceding 2 years.
 `(C) Each report under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to the
 Administrator for inclusion in the biennial report under subsection (k).
 `(f) ASSOCIATE ADMINISTRATOR FOR WOMEN'S SERVICES-
 `(1) APPOINTMENT- The Administrator, with the approval of the Secretary,
 shall appoint an Associate Administrator for Women's Services.
 `(2) DUTIES- The Associate Administrator appointed under paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) establish a committee to be known as the Coordinating Committee
 for Women's Services (hereafter in this subparagraph referred to as the
 `Coordinating Committee'), which shall be composed of the Directors of the
 agencies of the Administration (or the designees of the Directors);
 `(B) acting through the Coordinating Committee, with respect to women's
 substance abuse and mental health services--
 `(i) identify the need for such services, and make an estimate each fiscal
 year of the funds needed to adequately support the services;
 `(ii) identify needs regarding the coordination of services;
 `(iii) encourage the agencies of the Administration to support such
 services; and
 `(iv) assure that the unique needs of minority women, including Native
 American, Hispanic, African-American and Asian women, are recognized and
 addressed within the activities of the Administration; and
 `(C) establish an advisory committee to be known as the Advisory Committee for
 Women's Services, which shall be composed of not more than 10 individuals,
 a majority of whom shall be women, who are not officers or employees
 of the Federal Government, to be appointed by the Administrator from
 among physicians, practitioners, treatment providers, and other health
 professionals, whose clinical practice, specialization, or professional
 expertise includes a significant focus on women's substance abuse and mental
 health conditions, that shall--
 `(i) advise the Associate Administrator on appropriate activities to be
 undertaken by the agencies of the Administration with respect to women's
 substance abuse and mental health services, including services which require
 a multidisciplinary approach;
 `(ii) collect and review data, including information provided by the Secretary
 (including the material referred to in paragraph (3)), and report biannually
 to the Administrator regarding the extent to which women are represented
 among senior personnel, and make recommendations regarding improvement in
 the participation of women in the workforce of the Administration; and
 `(iii) prepare, for inclusion in the biennial report required pursuant to
 subsection (k), a description of activities of the Committee, including
 findings made by the Committee regarding--
 `(I) the extent of expenditures made for women's substance abuse and mental
 health services by the agencies of the Administration; and
 `(II) the estimated level of funding needed for substance abuse and mental
 health services to meet the needs of women;
 `(D) improve the collection of data on women's health by--
 `(i) reviewing the current data at the Administration to determine its
 uniformity and applicability;
 `(ii) developing standards for all programs funded by the Administration
 so that data are, to the extent practicable, collected and reported using
 common reporting formats, linkages and definitions; and
 `(iii) reporting to the Administrator a plan for incorporating the standards
 developed under clause (ii) in all Administration programs and a plan to
 assure that the data so collected are accessible to health professionals,
 providers, researchers, and members of the public; and
 `(E) shall establish, maintain, and operate a program to provide information
 on women's substance abuse and mental health services.
 `(3) STUDY-
 `(A) The Secretary, acting through the Assistant Secretary for Personnel,
 shall conduct a study to evaluate the extent to which women are represented
 among senior personnel at the Administration.
 `(B) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the ADAMHA
 Reorganization Act, the Assistant Secretary for Personnel shall provide the
 Advisory Committee for Women's Services with a study plan, including the
 methodology of the study and any sampling frames. Not later than 180 days
 after such date of enactment, the Assistant Secretary shall prepare and
 submit directly to the Advisory Committee a report concerning the results
 of the study conducted under subparagraph (A).
 `(C) The Secretary shall prepare and provide to the Advisory Committee for
 Women's Services any additional data as requested.
 `(4) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `women's substance
 abuse and mental health conditions', with respect to women of all age, ethnic,
 and racial groups, means all aspects of substance abuse and mental illness--
 `(A) unique to or more prevalent among women; or
 `(B) with respect to which there have been insufficient services involving
 women or insufficient data.
 `(g) SERVICES OF EXPERTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Administrator may obtain (in accordance with section
 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but without regard to the limitation
 in such section on the number of days or the period of service) the
 services of not more than 20 experts or consultants who have professional
 qualifications. Such experts and consultants shall be obtained for the
 Administration and for each of its agencies.
 `(2) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES-
 `(A) Experts and consultants whose services are obtained under paragraph (1)
 shall be paid or reimbursed for their expenses associated with traveling
 to and from their assignment location in accordance with sections 5724,
 5724a(a)(1), 5724a(a)(3), and 5726(c) of title 5, United States Code.
 `(B) Expenses specified in subparagraph (A) may not be allowed in connection
 with the assignment of an expert or consultant whose services are obtained
 under paragraph (1), unless and until the expert or consultant agrees in
 writing to complete the entire period of assignment or one year, whichever
 is shorter, unless separated or reassigned for reasons beyond the control
 of the expert or consultant that are acceptable to the Secretary. If the
 expert or consultant violates the agreement, the money spent by the United
 States for the expenses specified in subparagraph (A) is recoverable from
 the expert or consultant as a debt of the United States. The Secretary may
 waive in whole or in part a right of recovery under this subparagraph.
 `(h) PEER REVIEW GROUPS- The Administrator shall, without regard to the
 provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the
 competitive service, and without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and
 subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title, relating to classification and
 General Schedule pay rates, establish such peer review groups and program
 advisory committees as are needed to carry out the requirements of this title
 and appoint and pay members of such groups, except that officers and employees
 of the United States shall not receive additional compensation for services
 as members of such groups. The Federal Advisory Committee Act shall not
 apply to the duration of a peer review group appointed under this subsection.
 `(i) VOLUNTARY SERVICES- The Administrator may accept voluntary and
 uncompensated services.
 `(j) ADMINISTRATION- The Administrator shall ensure that programs and
 activities assigned under this title to the Administration are fully
 administered by the respective Centers to which such programs and activities
 are assigned.
 `(k) REPORT CONCERNING ACTIVITIES AND PROGRESS- Not later than February
 10, 1994, and once every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall
 prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
 Senate, the report containing--
 `(1) a description of the activities carried out by the Administration;
 `(2) a description of any measurable progress made in improving the
 availability and quality of substance abuse and mental health services;
 `(3) a description of the mechanisms by which relevant research findings
 of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol
 Abuse and Alcoholism, and the National Institute of Mental Health have been
 disseminated to service providers or otherwise utilized by the Administration
 to further the purposes of this title; and
 `(4) any report required in this title to be submitted to the Adminstrator
 for inclusion in the report under this subsection.
 `(l) APPLICATIONS FOR GRANTS AND CONTRACTS- With respect to awards of grants,
 cooperative agreements, and contracts under this title, the Administrator,
 or the Director of the Center involved, as the case may be, may not make
 such an award unless--
 `(1) an application for the award is submitted to the official involved;
 `(2) with respect to carrying out the purpose for which the award is to be
 provided, the application provides assurances of compliance satisfactory
 to such official; and
 `(3) the application is otherwise in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the official
 determines to be necessary to carry out the purpose for which the award is
 to be provided.
 `(m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of providing grants,
 cooperative agreements, and contracts under this section, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may
 be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
 (b) REPEALS- Sections 502, 503, and 504 of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 290aa-1, 290aa-2, and 290aa-3) are repealed.
SEC. 102. ADVISORY COUNCILS.
 Section 505 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-3a) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating such section as section 502; and
 (2) to read as follows:
`ADVISORY COUNCILS
 `SEC. 502. (a) APPOINTMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall appoint an advisory council for--
 `(A) the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration;
 `(B) the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment;
 `(C) the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention; and
 `(D) the Center for Mental Health Services.
Each such advisory council shall advise, consult with, and make recommendations
to the Secretary and the Administrator or Director of the Administration
or Center for which the advisory council is established concerning matters
relating to the activities carried out by and through the Administration or
Center and the policies respecting such activities.
 `(2) FUNCTION AND ACTIVITIES- An advisory council--
 `(A)(i) may on the basis of the materials provided by the organization
 respecting activities conducted at the organization, make recommendations
 to the Administrator or Director of the Administration or Center for which
 it was established respecting such activities;
 `(ii) shall review applications submitted for grants and cooperative
 agreements for activities for which advisory council approval is required
 under section 504(d)(2) and recommend for approval applications for projects
 that show promise of making valuable contributions to the Administration's
 mission; and
 `(iii) may review any grant, contract, or cooperative agreement proposed
 to be made or entered into by the organization;
 `(B) may collect, by correspondence or by personal investigation, information
 as to studies and services that are being carried on in the United States or
 any other country as to the diseases, disorders, or other aspects of human
 health with respect to which the organization was established and with the
 approval of the Administrator or Director, whichever is appropriate, make
 such information available through appropriate publications for the benefit
 of public and private health entities and health professions personnel and
 for the information of the general public; and
 `(C) may appoint subcommittees and convene workshops and conferences.
 `(b) MEMBERSHIP-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Each advisory council shall consist of nonvoting ex officio
 members and not more than 12 members to be appointed by the Secretary under
 paragraph (3).
 `(2) EX OFFICIO MEMBERS- The ex officio members of an advisory council
 shall consist of--
 `(A) the Secretary;
 `(B) the Administrator;
 `(C) the Director of the Center for which the council is established;
 `(D) the Chief Medical Director of the Veterans Administration; and
 `(E) the Assistant Secretary for Defense for Health Affairs (or the designates
 of such officers); and
 `(F) such additional officers or employees of the United States as the
 Secretary determines necessary for the advisory council to effectively
 carry out its functions.
 `(3) APPOINTED MEMBERS- Individuals shall be appointed to an advisory
 council under paragraph (1) as follows:
 `(A) Nine of the members shall be appointed by the Secretary from among
 the leading representatives of the health disciplines (including public
 health and behavioral and social sciences) relevant to the activities of
 the Administration or Center for which the advisory council is established.
 `(B) Three of the members shall be appointed by the Secretary from the
 general public and shall include leaders in fields of public policy, public
 relations, law, health policy economics, and management.
 `(4) COMPENSATION- Members of an advisory council who are officers or
 employees of the United States shall not receive any compensation for service
 on the advisory council. The remaining members of an advisory council
 shall receive, for each day (including travel time) they are engaged in
 the performance of the functions of the advisory council, compensation at
 rates not to exceed the daily equivalent to the annual rate in effect for
 grade GS-18 of the General Schedule.
 `(c) TERMS OF OFFICE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The term of office of a member of an advisory council
 appointed under subsection (b) shall be 4 years, except that any member
 appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall serve for the
 remainder of such term. The Secretary shall make appointments to an advisory
 council in such a manner as to ensure that the terms of the members not all
 expire in the same year. A member of an advisory council may serve after
 the expiration of such member's term until a successor has been appointed
 and taken office.
 `(2) REAPPOINTMENTS- A member who has been appointed to an advisory council
 for a term of 4 years may not be reappointed to an advisory council during
 the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such 4-year term expired.
 `(3) TIME FOR APPOINTMENT- If a vacancy occurs in an advisory council among
 the members under subsection (b), the Secretary shall make an appointment
 to fill such vacancy within 90 days from the date the vacancy occurs.
 `(d) CHAIR- The Secretary shall select a member of an advisory council to
 serve as the chair of the council. The Secretary may so select an individual
 from among the appointed members, or may select the Administrator or the
 Director of the Center involved. The term of office of the chair shall be
 2 years.
 `(e) MEETINGS- An advisory council shall meet at the call of the chairperson
 or upon the request of the Administrator or Director of the Administration
 or Center for which the advisory council is established, but in no event
 less than 3 times during each fiscal year. The location of the meetings of
 each advisory council shall be subject to the approval of the Administrator
 or Director of Administration or Center for which the council was established.
 `(f) EXECUTIVE SECRETARY AND STAFF- The Administrator or Director of the
 Administration or Center for which the advisory council is established shall
 designate a member of the staff of the Administration or Center for which
 the advisory council is established to serve as the Executive Secretary of
 the advisory council. The Administrator or Director shall make available
 to the advisory council such staff, information, and other assistance as
 it may require to carry out its functions. The Administrator or Director
 shall provide orientation and training for new members of the advisory
 council to provide for their effective participation in the functions of
 the advisory council.'.
SEC. 103. REPORTS ON ALCOHOLISM, ALCOHOL ABUSE, AND DRUG ABUSE.
 Section 506 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-4) is amended
 by redesignating such section as section 503.
SEC. 104. PEER REVIEW.
 Section 507 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-5) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating such section as section 504; and
 (2) to read as follows:
`PEER REVIEW
 `SEC. 504. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, after consultation with the
 Directors of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, the Center for
 Substance Abuse Prevention, and the Center for Mental Health Services,
 shall by regulation require appropriate peer review of grants, cooperative
 agreements, and contracts to be administered through such Centers.
 `(b) MEMBERS- The members of any peer review group established under
 regulations under subsection (a) shall be individuals who by virtue of
 their training or experience are eminently qualified to perform the review
 functions of the group. Not more than one-fourth of the members of any
 peer review group established under such regulation shall be officers or
 employees of the United States.
 `(c) REQUIREMENTS- Regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection (a)--
 `(1) shall require that the reviewing entity be provided a written description
 of the matter to be reviewed;
 `(2) shall require that the reviewing entity provide the advisory council
 of the Center involved with such description and the results of the review
 by the entity; and
 `(3) may specify the conditions under which limited exceptions may be
 granted to the limitations contained in the last sentence of subsection
 (b) and subsection (d).
 `(d) RECOMMENDATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- If the direct cost of a grant, cooperative agreement, or
 contract (described in subsection (a)) to be made does not exceed $50,000,
 the Secretary may make such grant, cooperative agreement, or contract only
 if such grant, cooperative agreement, or contract is recommended after peer
 review required by regulations under subsection (a).
 `(2) BY APPROPRIATE ADVISORY COUNCIL- If the direct cost of a grant,
 cooperative agreement, or contract (described in subsection (a)) to be made
 exceeds $50,000, the Secretary may make such grant, cooperative agreement,
 or contract only if such grant, cooperative agreement, or contract is
 recommended--
 `(A) after peer review required by regulations under subsection (a), and
 `(B) by the appropriate advisory council.'.
SEC. 105. DATA COLLECTION.
 Section 509D of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc-11)--
 (1) is transferred to part A of title V of such Act;
 (2) is redesignated as section 505; and
 (3) is inserted after section 504 (as redesignated by section 104).
SEC. 106. GRANTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS.
 (a) TRANSFER- Section 512 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290bb-1b)--
 (1) is transferred to part A of title V of such Act;
 (2) is redesignated as section 506; and
 (3) is inserted after section 505 (as redesignated by section 105).
 (b) AMENDMENTS- Section 506 of the Public Health Service Act (as transferred
 and redesignated under subsection (a)) is amended to read as follows:
`GRANTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS
 `SEC. 506. (a) GRANTS FOR THE BENEFIT OF HOMELESS INDIVIDUALS- The Secretary,
 acting through the Administrator, may make grants to, and enter into contracts
 and cooperative agreements with, community-based public and private nonprofit
 entities for the purpose of developing and expanding mental health and
 substance abuse treatment services for homeless individuals. In carrying out
 this subsection, the Administrator shall consult with the Administrator of the
 Health Resources and Services Administration, the Directors of the National
 Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse, and the National Institute of Mental Health, and the Commissioner
 of the Administration for Children, Youth and Families.
 `(b) PREFERENCE- In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Secretary
 shall give preference to entities that provide integrated primary health
 care, substance abuse and mental health services to homeless individuals.
 `(c) SERVICES FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS- In making awards under subsection
 (a), the Secretary may not prohibit the provision of services under such
 subsection to homeless individuals who have a primary diagnosis of substance
 abuse and are not suffering from mental illness.
 `(d) TERM OF GRANT- No entity may receive grants under subsection (a)
 for more than 5 years although such grants may be renewed.
 `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 to carry out this section, $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums
 as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 107. CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT.
 Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) is
 amended--
 (1) by striking the heading for part B and each subpart heading in such
 part; and
 (2) by inserting after section 506 (as transferred and redesignated by
 section 106) the following new part:
`Part B--Centers and Programs
`Subpart 1--Center for Substance Abuse Treatment
`CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT
 `SEC. 507. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Administration a
 Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (hereafter in this section referred
 to as the `Center'). The Center shall be headed by a Director (hereafter
 in this section referred to as the `Director') appointed by the Secretary
 from among individuals with extensive experience or academic qualifications
 in the treatment of substance abuse or in the evaluation of substance abuse
 treatment systems.
 `(b) DUTIES- The Director of the Center shall--
 `(1) administer the substance abuse treatment block grant program authorized
 in section 1921;
 `(2) collaborate with the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse
 Prevention in order to provide outreach services to identify individuals in
 need of treatment services, with emphasis on the provision of such services
 to pregnant and postpartum women and their infants and to individuals who
 abuse drugs intravenously;
 `(3) collaborate with the Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse,
 with the Director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 and with the States to promote the study, dissemination, and implementation
 of research findings that will improve the delivery and effectiveness of
 treatment services;
 `(4) collaborate with the Administrator of the Health Resources and
 Services Administration and the Administrator of the Health Care Financing
 Administration to promote the increased integration into the mainstream
 of the health care system of the United States of programs for providing
 treatment services;
 `(5) evaluate plans submitted by the States pursuant to section 1932(a)(6) in
 order to determine whether the plans adequately provide for the availability,
 allocation, and effectiveness of treatment services, and monitor the use
 of revolving loan funds pursuant to section 1925;
 `(6) sponsor regional workshops on improving the quality and availability
 of treatment services;
 `(7) provide technical assistance to public and nonprofit private entities
 that provide treatment services, including technical assistance with respect
 to the process of submitting to the Director applications for any program
 of grants or contracts carried out by the Director;
 `(8) encourage the States to expand the availability (relative to fiscal
 year 1992) of programs providing treatment services through self-run,
 self-supported recovery based on the programs of housing operated pursuant
 to section 1925;
 `(9) carry out activities to educate individuals on the need for establishing
 treatment facilities within their communities;
 `(10) encourage public and private entities that provide health insurance to
 provide benefits for outpatient treatment services and other nonhospital-based
 treatment services;
 `(11) evaluate treatment programs to determine the quality and appropriateness
 of various forms of treatment, including the effect of living in housing
 provided by programs established under section 1925, which shall be carried
 out through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements provided to public
 or nonprofit private entities; and
 `(12) in carrying out paragraph (11), assess the quality, appropriateness,
 and costs of various treatment forms for specific patient groups.
 `(c) GRANTS AND CONTRACTS- In carrying out the duties established in
 subsection (b), the Director may make grants to and enter into contracts
 and cooperative agreements with public and nonprofit private entities.'.
SEC. 108. PROGRAMS FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subpart 1 of part B of title V (as added by section 107)
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new sections:
`RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT PROGRAMS FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN
 `SEC. 508. (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Center for Substance
 Abuse Treatment shall provide awards of grants, cooperative agreement,
 or contracts to public and nonprofit private entities for the purpose of
 providing to pregnant and postpartum women treatment for substance abuse
 through programs in which, during the course of receiving treatment--
 `(1) the women reside in facilities provided by the programs;
 `(2) the minor children of the women reside with the women in such facilities,
 if the women so request; and
 `(3) the services described in subsection (d) are available to or on behalf
 of the women.
 `(b) AVAILABILITY OF SERVICES FOR EACH PARTICIPANT- A funding agreement
 for an award under subsection (a) for an applicant is that, in the program
 operated pursuant to such subsection--
 `(1) treatment services and each supplemental service will be available
 through the applicant, either directly or through agreements with other
 public or nonprofit private entities; and
 `(2) the services will be made available to each woman admitted to the
 program.
 `(c) INDIVIDUALIZED PLAN OF SERVICES- A funding agreement for an award
 under subsection (a) for an applicant is that--
 `(1)  in providing authorized services for an eligible woman pursuant to
 such subsection, the applicant will, in consultation with the women, prepare
 an individualized plan for the provision to the woman of the services; and
 `(2) treatment services under the plan will include--
 `(A) individual, group, and family counseling, as appropriate, regarding
 substance abuse; and
 `(B) follow-up services to assist the woman in preventing a relapse into
 such abuse.
 `(d) REQUIRED SUPPLEMENTAL SERVICES- In the case of an eligible woman,
 the services referred to in subsection (a)(3) are as follows:
 `(1) Prenatal and postpartum health care.
 `(2) Referrals for necessary hospital services.
 `(3) For the infants and children of the woman--
 `(A) pediatric health care, including treatment for any perinatal effects
 of maternal substance abuse and including screenings regarding the physical
 and mental development of the infants and children;
 `(B) counseling and other mental health services, in the case of children; and
 `(C) comprehensive social services.
 `(4) Providing supervision of children during periods in which the woman is
 engaged in therapy or in other necessary health or rehabilitative activities.
 `(5) Training in parenting.
 `(6) Counseling on the human immunodeficiency virus and on acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome.
 `(7) Counseling on domestic violence and sexual abuse.
 `(8) Counseling on obtaining employment, including the importance of
 graduating from a secondary school.
 `(9) Reasonable efforts to preserve and support the family units of the
 women, including promoting the appropriate involvement of parents and others,
 and counseling the children of the women.
 `(10) Planning for and counseling to assist reentry into society, both before
 and after discharge, including referrals to any public or nonprofit private
 entities in the community involved that provide services appropriate for
 the women and the children of the women.
 `(11) Case management services, including--
 `(A) assessing the extent to which authorized services are appropriate for
 the women and their children;
 `(B) in the case of the services that are appropriate, ensuring that the
 services are provided in a coordinated manner; and
 `(C) assistance in establishing eligibility for assistance under Federal,
 State, and local programs providing health services, mental health services,
 housing services, employment services, educational services, or social
 services.
 `(e) MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR RECEIPT OF AWARD-
 `(1) CERTIFICATION BY RELEVANT STATE AGENCY- With respect to the principal
 agency of the State involved that administers programs relating to substance
 abuse, the Director may make an award under subsection (a) to an applicant
 only if the agency has certified to the Director that--
 `(A) the applicant has the capacity to carry out a program described in
 subsection (a);
 `(B) the plans of the applicant for such a program are consistent with the
 policies of such agency regarding the treatment of substance abuse; and
 `(C) the applicant, or any entity through which the applicant will provide
 authorized services, meets all applicable State licensure or certification
 requirements regarding the provision of the services involved.
 `(2) STATUS AS MEDICAID PROVIDER-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), the Director may make an award
 under subsection (a) only if, in the case of any authorized service that
 is available pursuant to the State plan approved under title XIX of the
 Social Security Act for the State involved--
 `(i) the applicant for the award will provide the service directly, and
 the applicant has entered into a participation agreement under the State
 plan and is qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
 `(ii) the applicant will enter into an agreement with a public or nonprofit
 private entity under which the entity will provide the service, and the
 entity has entered into such a participation agreement plan and is qualified
 to receive such payments.
 `(B)(i) In the case of an entity making an agreement pursuant to subparagraph
 (A)(ii) regarding the provision of services, the requirement established
 in such subparagraph regarding a participation agreement shall be waived
 by the Director if the entity does not, in providing health care services,
 impose a charge or accept reimbursement available from any third-party payor,
 including reimbursement under any insurance policy or under any Federal or
 State health benefits plan.
 `(ii) A determination by the Director of whether an entity referred to in
 clause (i) meets the criteria for a waiver under such clause shall be made
 without regard to whether the entity accepts voluntary donations regarding
 the provision of services to the public.
 `(C) With respect to any authorized service that is available pursuant to
 the State plan described in subparagraph (A), the requirements established
 in such subparagraph shall not apply to the provision of any such service
 by an institution for mental diseases to an individual who has attained
 21 years of age and who has not attained 65 years of age. For purposes of
 the preceding sentence, the term `institution for mental diseases' has the
 meaning given such term in section 1905(i) of the Social Security Act.
 `(f) REQUIREMENT OF MATCHING FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- With respect to the costs of the program to be carried
 out by an applicant pursuant to subsection (a), a funding agreement for
 an award under such subsection is that the applicant will make available
 (directly or through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal
 contributions toward such costs in an amount that--
 `(A) for the first fiscal year for which the applicant receives payments
 under an award under such subsection, is not less than $1 for each $9 of
 Federal funds provided in the award;
 `(B) for any second such fiscal year, is not less than $1 for each $9 of
 Federal funds provided in the award; and
 `(C) for any subsequent such fiscal year, is not less than $1 for each $3
 of Federal funds provided in the award.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED- Non-Federal contributions
 required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated,
 including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal
 Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent
 by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount
 of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(g) OUTREACH- A funding agreement for an award under subsection (a) for
 an applicant is that the applicant will provide outreach services in the
 community involved to identify women who are engaging in substance abuse
 and to encourage the women to undergo treatment for such abuse.
 `(h) ACCESSIBILITY OF PROGRAM; CULTURAL CONTEXT OF SERVICES- A funding
 agreement for an award under subsection (a) for an applicant is that--
 `(1) the program operated pursuant to such subsection will be operated at
 a location that is accessible to low-income pregnant and postpartum women; and
 `(2) authorized services will be provided in the language and the cultural
 context that is most appropriate.
 `(i) CONTINUING EDUCATION- A funding agreement for an award under subsection
 (a) is that the applicant involved will provide for continuing education
 in treatment services for the individuals who will provide treatment in
 the program to be operated by the applicant pursuant to such subsection.
 `(j) IMPOSITION OF CHARGES- A funding agreement for an award under subsection
 (a) for an applicant is that, if a charge is imposed for the provision of
 authorized services to on behalf of an eligible woman, such charge--
 `(1) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available
 to the public;
 `(2) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the woman involved; and
 `(3) will not be imposed on any such woman with an income of less than 185
 percent of the official poverty line, as established by the Director of the
 Office for Management and Budget and revised by the Secretary in accordance
 with section 673(2) of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981.
 `(k) REPORTS TO DIRECTOR- A funding agreement for an award under subsection
 (a) is that the applicant involved will submit to the Director a report--
 `(1) describing the utilization and costs of services provided under
 the award;
 `(2) specifying the number of women served, the number of infants served,
 and the type and costs of services provided; and
 `(3) providing such other information as the Director determines to be
 appropriate.
 `(l) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Director may make an award under
 subsection (a) only if an application for the award is submitted to the
 Director containing such agreements, and the application is in such form, is
 made in such manner, and contains such other agreements and such assurances
 and information as the Director determines to be necessary to carry out
 this section.
 `(m) EQUITABLE ALLOCATION OF AWARDS- In making awards under subsection
 (a), the Director shall ensure that the awards are equitably allocated
 among the principal geographic regions of the United States, subject to
 the availability of qualified applicants for the awards.
 `(n) DURATION OF AWARD- The period during which payments are made to an entity
 from an award under subsection (a) may not exceed 5 years. The provision of
 such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Director of the
 payments and subject to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal
 year involved to make the payments. This subsection may not be construed
 to establish a limitation on the number of awards under such subsection
 that may be made to an entity.
 `(o) EVALUATIONS; DISSEMINATION OF FINDINGS- The Director shall, directly
 or through contract, provide for the conduct of evaluations of programs
 carried out pursuant to subsection (a). The Director shall disseminate to
 the States the findings made as a result of the evaluations.
 `(p) REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Not later than October 1, 1994,  the Director
 shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of
 the Senate, a report describing programs carried out pursuant to this
 section. Every 2 years thereafter, the Director shall prepare a report
 describing such programs carried out during the preceding 2 years, and shall
 submit the report to the Administrator for inclusion in the biennial report
 under section 501(k). Each report under this subsection shall include a
 summary of any evaluations conducted under subsection (m) during the period
 with respect to which the report is prepared.
 `(q) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `authorized services' means treatment services and supplemental
 services.
 `(2) The term `eligible woman' means a woman who has been admitted to a
 program operated pursuant to subsection (a).
 `(3) The term `funding agreement under subsection (a)', with respect to an
 award under subsection (a), means that the Director may make the award only
 if the applicant makes the agreement involved.
 `(4) The term `treatment services' means treatment for substance abuse,
 including the counseling and services described in subsection (c)(2).
 `(5) The term `supplemental services' means the services described in
 subsection (d).
 `(r) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out this section and section
 509, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) TRANSFER- For the purpose described in paragraph (1), in addition to
 the amounts authorized in such paragraph to be appropriated for a fiscal
 year, there is authorized to be appropriated for the fiscal year from the
 special forfeiture fund of the Director of the Office of National Drug
 Control Policy such sums as may be necessary.
 `(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- The amounts authorized in this subsection to be
 appropriated are in addition to any other amounts that are authorized to
 be appropriated and are available for the purpose described in paragraph (1).
`OUTPATIENT TREATMENT PROGRAMS FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN
 `SEC. 509. (a) GRANTS- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the
 Treatment Center, shall make grants to establish projects for the outpatient
 treatment of substance abuse among pregnant and postpartum women, and in
 the case of conditions arising in the infants of such women as a result
 of such abuse by the women, the outpatient treatment of the infants for
 such conditions.
 `(b) PREVENTION- Entities receiving grants under this section shall engage
 in activities to prevent substance abuse among pregnant and postpartum women.
 `(c) EVALUATION- The Secretary shall evaluate projects carried out under
 subsection (a) and shall disseminate to appropriate public and private
 entities information on effective projects.'.
 (b) TRANSITIONAL AND SAVINGS PROVISIONS-
 (1) SAVINGS PROVISION FOR COMPLETION OF CURRENT PROJECTS-
 (A) Subject to paragraph (2), in the case of any project for which a grant
 under former section 509F was provided for fiscal year 1992, the Secretary
 of Health and Human Services may continue in effect the grant for fiscal
 year 1993 and subsequent fiscal years, subject to the duration of any
 such grant not exceeding the period determined by the Secretary in first
 approving the grant. Subject to approval by the Administrator, such grants
 may be administered by the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention.
 (B) Subparagraph (A) shall apply with respect to a project notwithstanding
 that the project is not eligible to receive a grant under current section
 508 or 509.
 (2) LIMITATION ON FUNDING FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS- With respect to the
 amounts appropriated for any fiscal year under current section 508, any
 such amounts appropriated in excess of the amount appropriated for fiscal
 year 1992 under former section 509F shall be available only for grants
 under current section 508.
 (3) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection:
 (A) The term `former section 509F' means section 509F of the Public Health
 Service Act, as in effect for fiscal year 1992.
 (B) The term `current section 508' means section 508 of the Public Health
 Service Act, as in effect for fiscal year 1993 and subsequent fiscal years.
 (C) The term `current section 509' means section 509 of the Public Health
 Service Act, as in effect for fiscal year 1993 and subsequent fiscal years.
SEC. 109. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS OF NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE.
 Subpart 1 of part B of title V (as amended by section 108) is further
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS OF NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE
 `SEC. 510. (a) GRANTS FOR TREATMENT IMPROVEMENT- The Director of the Center
 for Substance Abuse Treatment shall provide grants to public and nonprofit
 private entities for the purpose of establishing demonstration projects
 that will improve the provision of treatment services for substance abuse.
 `(b) NATURE OF PROJECTS- Grants under subsection (a) shall be awarded to--
 `(1) projects that provide treatment to adolescents, female addicts and
 their children, racial and ethnic minorities, or individuals in rural areas,
 with preference given to such projects that provide treatment for substance
 abuse to women with dependent children, which treatment is provided in
 settings in which both primary health services for the women and pediatric
 care are available;
 `(2) projects that provide treatment in exchange for public service;
 `(3) projects that provide treatment services and which are operated by
 public and nonprofit private entities receiving grants under section 329,
 330, 340, 340A, or other public or nonprofit private entities that provide
 primary health services;
 `(4) `treatment campus' projects that--
 `(A) serve a significant number of individuals simultaneously;
 `(B) provide residential, non-community based drug treatment;
 `(C) provide patients with ancillary social services and referrals to
 community-based aftercare; and
 `(D) provide services on a voluntary basis;
 `(5) projects in large metropolitan areas to identify individuals in need
 of treatment services and to improve the availability and delivery of such
 services in the areas;
 `(6) in the case of drug abusers who are at risk of HIV infection, projects
 to conduct outreach activities to the individuals regarding the prevention
 of exposure to and the transmission of the human immunodefiency virus,
 and to encourage the individuals to seek treatment for such abuse; and
 `(7) projects to determine the long-term efficacy of the projects described
 in this section and to disseminate to appropriate public and private entities
 information on the projects that have been effective.
 `(c) PREFERENCES IN MAKING GRANTS- In awarding grants under subsection (a),
 the Director of the Treatment Center shall give preference to projects that--
 `(1) demonstrate a comprehensive approach to the problems associated with
 substance abuse and provide evidence of broad community involvement and
 support; or
 `(2) initiate and expand programs for the provision of treatment services
 (including renovation of facilities, but not construction) in localities in
 which, and among populations for which, there is a public health crisis as
 a result of the inadequate availability of such services and a substantial
 rate of substance abuse.
 `(d) DURATION OF GRANTS- The period during which payments are made under
 a grant under subsection (a) may not exceed 5 years.
 `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are
 authorized to be appropriated $175,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such
 sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994. The amounts so authorized
 are in addition to any other amounts that are authorized to be appropriated
 and available for such purpose.
 `(2) ALLOCATION- Of the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a
 fiscal year, the Director of the Treatment Center shall reserve not less
 than 5 percent for carrying out projects described in subsections (b)(2)
 and (b)(3).'.
SEC. 110. GRANTS FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT IN STATE AND LOCAL CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEMS.
 Subpart 1 of part B of title V (as amended by section 109) is further
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following new section:
`GRANTS FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT IN STATE AND LOCAL CRIMINAL JUSTICE
SYSTEMS
 `SEC. 511. (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Center for Substance Abuse
 Treatment shall provide grants to public and nonprofit private entities
 that provide treatment for substance abuse to individuals under criminal
 justice supervision.
 `(b) ELIGIBILITY- In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Director
 shall ensure that the grants are reasonably distributed among--
 `(1) projects that provide treatment services to individuals who are
 incarcerated in prisons, jails, or community correctional settings; and
 `(2) projects that provide treatment services to individuals who are not
 incarcerated, but who are under criminal justice supervision because of
 their status as pretrial releasees, post-trial releasees, probationers,
 parolees, or supervised releasees.
 `(c) PRIORITY- In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Director shall
 give priority to programs commensurate with the extent to which such programs
 provide, directly or in conjunction with other public or private nonprofit
 entities, one or more of the following--
 `(1) a continuum of offender management services as individuals enter, proceed
 through, and leave the criminal justice system, including identification
 and assessment, substance abuse treatment, pre-release counseling and
 pre-release referrals with respect to housing, employment and treatment;
 `(2) comprehensive treatment services for juvenile offenders;
 `(3) comprehensive treatment services for female offenders, including related
 services such as violence counseling, parenting and child development classes,
 and perinatal care;
 `(4) outreach services to identify individuals under criminal justice
 supervision who would benefit from substance abuse treatment and to encourage
 such individuals to seek treatment; or
 `(5) treatment services that function as an alternative to incarceration for
 appropriate categories of offenders or that otherwise enable individuals to
 remain under criminal justice supervision in the least restrictive setting
 consistent with public safety.
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 111. TRAINING IN PROVISION OF TREATMENT SERVICES.
 Subpart 1 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (as amended
 by section 110) is further amended by adding at the end thereof the following
 new section:
`TRAINING IN PROVISION OF TREATMENT SERVICES
 `SEC. 512. (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Center for Substance Abuse
 Treatment shall develop programs to increase the number of substance abuse
 treatment professionals and the number of health professionals providing
 treatment services through the awarding of grants to appropriate public and
 nonprofit private entities, including agencies of State and local governments,
 hospitals, schools of medicine, schools of osteopathic medicine, schools
 of nursing, schools of social work, and graduate programs in marriage and
 family therapy.
 `(b) PRIORITY- In awarding grants under subsection (a), the Director shall
 give priority to projects that train full-time substance abuse treatment
 professionals and projects that will receive financial support from public
 entities for carrying out the projects.
 `(c) HEALTH PROFESSIONS EDUCATION- In awarding grants under subsection (a),
 the Director may make grants--
 `(1) to train individuals in the diagnosis and treatment of alcohol abuse
 and other drug abuse; and
 `(2) to develop appropriate curricula and materials for the training
 described in paragraph (1).
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 112. ALTERNATIVE UTILIZATION OF MILITARY FACILITIES.
 (a) TRANSFER- Section 561 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ff)--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 1 of part B of title V of such Act;
 (2) is redesignated as section 513; and
 (3) is inserted after section 512 (as added by section 111).
 (b) AMENDMENTS-
 (1) Section 513(a) of the Public Health Service Act (as transferred and
 redesignated under subsection (a)) is amended by striking out `NATIONAL
 INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE- The Director of the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse' and inserting in lieu thereof `CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT-
 The Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment'.
 (2) Part E of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ff)
 is amended by striking out the part heading.
SEC. 113. CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (as
 amended by section 112) is amended by inserting after section 513 the
 following new subpart:
`Subpart 2--Center for Substance Abuse Prevention'.
 (b) TRANSFER- Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290aa-6), as such section existed 1 day prior to the date of enactment
 of this Act--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 2 of part B of title V;
 (2) is redesignated as section 515; and
 (3) is inserted after the subpart heading (as added by subsection (a)).
 (c) AMENDMENTS- Section 515(b) of the Public Health Service Act (as
 transferred and redesignated by subsection (b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (5), by striking `and intervention';
 (2) by striking paragraphs (10) and (11);
 (3) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (10); and
 (4) in paragraph (9), by adding `and' after the semicolon at the end.
 (d) NATIONAL DATA BASE- Section 515 of the Public Health Service Act (as
 amended by subsection (c)) is amended by amending subsection (d) to read
 as follows:
 `(d) The Director of the Prevention Center shall establish a national data
 base providing information on programs for the prevention of substance
 abuse. The data base shall contain information appropriate for use by public
 entities and information appropriate for use by nonprofit private entities.'.
 (e) REFERENCES- Section 515 of the Public Health Service Act (as amended
 by subsection (e)) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence, by striking `(hereafter' and
 all that follows and inserting `(hereafter referred to in this part as the
 `Prevention Center').'; and
 (2) in subsection (b), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `Office' and inserting `Prevention Center'.
 (f) COMMUNITY PROGRAMS- Section 509 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290aa-7) as such section existed 1 day prior to the date of enactment
 of this Act--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 2 of part B of title V of such Act (as added
 by subsection (a));
 (2) is redesignated as section 516;
 (3) is inserted after section 515 (as transferred and redesignated by
 subsection (b)); and
 (4) is amended to read as follows:
`COMMUNITY PROGRAMS
 `SEC. 516. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of
 the Prevention Center, shall--
 `(1) provide assistance to communities to develop comprehensive long-term
 strategies for the prevention of substance abuse; and
 `(2) evaluate the success of different community approaches toward the
 prevention of such abuse.
 `(b) STRATEGIES FOR REDUCING USE- The Director of the Prevention Center
 shall ensure that strategies developed under subsection (a)(1) include
 strategies for reducing the use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products
 by individuals to whom it is unlawful to sell or distribute such beverages
 or products.
 `(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out
 subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated $120,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993, such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 114. PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND REHABILITATION MODEL PROJECTS FOR HIGH
RISK YOUTH.
 (a) TRANSFER- Section 509A of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290aa-8)--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 2 of part B of title V of such Act (as added
 by section 113(a));
 (2) is redesignated as section 517; and
 (3) is inserted after section 516 (as transferred and redesignated by
 section 113(g)).
 (b) AMENDMENTS- Section 517 (as transferred and redesignated by subsection
 (a)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as subsections (d) through
 (g), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new subsection:
 `(c) The Secretary shall ensure that projects under subsection (a) include
 strategies for reducing the use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products
 by individuals to whom it is unlawful to sell or distribute such beverages
 or products.'.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- Section 517 (as transferred and
 redesignated by subsection (a) and amended by subsection (b)) is further
 amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(h) For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to
 be appropriated $70,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
 necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
 (d) REFERENCES- Section 517(a) (as transferred and redesignated by subsection
 (a) and amended by subsection (b)) is further amended by striking `Office'
 each time that such appears and inserting `Prevention Center'.
SEC. 115. CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (as
 amended by section 114) is amended by inserting after section 517 the
 following new subpart:
`Subpart 3--Center for Mental Health Services
`CENTER FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
 `SEC. 520. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Administration
 a Center for Mental Health Services (hereafter in this section referred
 to as the `Center'). The Center shall be headed by a Director (hereafter
 in this section referred to as the `Director') appointed by the Secretary
 from among individuals with extensive experience or academic qualifications
 in the provision of mental health services or in the evaluation of mental
 health service systems.
 `(b) DUTIES- The Director of the Center shall--
 `(1) design national goals and establish national priorities for--
 `(A) the prevention of mental illness; and
 `(B) the promotion of mental health;
 `(2) encourage and assist local entities and State agencies to achieve the
 goals and priorities described in paragraph (1);
 `(3) develop and coordinate Federal prevention policies and programs and to
 assure increased focus on the prevention of mental illness and the promotion
 of mental health;
 `(4) develop improved methods of treating individuals with mental health
 problems and improved methods of assisting the families of such individuals;
 `(5) administer the mental health services block grant program authorized
 in section 1911;
 `(6) promote policies and programs at Federal, State, and local levels and
 in the private sector that foster independence and protect the legal rights
 of persons with mental illness, including carrying out the provisions of
 the Protection and Advocacy of Mentally Ill Individuals Act;
 `(7) carry out the programs authorized under sections 520A and 521, including
 the Community Support Program and the Child and Adolescent Service System
 Programs;
 `(8) carry out responsibilities for the Human Resource Development program,
 and programs of clinical training for professional and paraprofessional
 personnel pursuant to section 303;
 `(9) conduct services-related assessments, including evaluations of the
 organization and financing of care, self-help and consumer-run programs,
 mental health economics, mental health service systems, rural mental health,
 and improve the capacity of State to conduct evaluations of publicly funded
 mental health programs;
 `(10) establish a clearinghouse for mental health information to assure
 the widespread dissemination of such information to States, political
 subdivisions, educational agencies and institutions, treatment and prevention
 service providers, and the general public, including information concerning
 the practical application of research supported by the National Institute
 of Mental Health that is applicable to improving the delivery of services;
 `(11) provide technical assistance to public and private entities that are
 providers of mental health services;
 `(12) monitor and enforce obligations incurred by community mental health
 centers pursuant to the Community Mental Health Centers Act (as in effect
 prior to the repeal of such Act on August 13, 1981, by section 902(e)(2)(B)
 of Public Law 97-35 (95 Stat. 560));
 `(13) conduct surveys with respect to mental health, such as the National
 Reporting Program; and
 `(14) assist States in improving their mental health data collection.
 `(c) GRANTS AND CONTRACTS- In carrying out the duties established in
 subsection (b), the Director may make grants to and enter into contracts
 and cooperative agreements with public and nonprofit private entities.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 303(a) of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 242a(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking out `, the Surgeon General is authorized' in the matter
 preceding paragraph (1);
 (2) by inserting `the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Center
 for Mental Health Services, is authorized' after the paragraph designation
 in paragraph (1); and
 (3) by inserting `the Surgeon General is authorized' after the paragraph
 designation in paragraph (2).
SEC. 116. GRANT PROGRAM FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
 (a) TRANSFER- Section 520 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 290cc-13) as such section existed 1 day prior to the date of enactment
 of this Act--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 3 of part B of title V of such Act;
 (2) is redesignated as section 520A; and
 (3) is inserted after section 520 (as added by section 115).
 (b) AMENDMENTS- Section 520A (as transferred and redesignated under subsection
 (a)) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `National Institute of Mental
 Health' and inserting in lieu thereof `Center for Mental Health Services';
 (2) in subsection (c), by striking out `three' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `five'; and
 (3) in subsection (e)(1), to read as follows:
 `(1) For the purposes of carrying out this section, there are authorized
 to be appropriated $50,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may
 be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
SEC. 117. NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH EDUCATION.
 Section 519 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc-12) is repealed.
SEC. 118. DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2441 of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 300dd-41)--
 (1) is transferred to subpart 3 of part B of title V of such Act (as added
 by section 115);
 (2) is redesignated as section 520B; and
 (3) is inserted after section 520A (as added by section 116).
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Public Health Service Act (as amended by
 subsection (a)), is amended--
 (1) in part C of title XXIV--
 (A) by striking out the heading for subpart I;
 (B) in section 2432(a), by striking out `subpart' each place such term
 appears and inserting `part'; and
 (C) by striking out the heading for subpart II; and
 (2) in section 520B (as transferred and added by subsection (a))--
 (A) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting
 after `Secretary' the following: `, acting through the Director of the
 Center for Mental Health Services,'; and
 (B) in subsection (j), by striking out `1991' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `1994'.
SEC. 119. CHILDHOOD MENTAL HEALTH.
 Title V of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the preceding
 provisions of this title, is amended by adding at the end the following
 new part:
`Part E--Children With Serious Emotional Disturbances
`SEC. 561. COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR CHILDREN WITH
SERIOUS EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCES.
 `(a) GRANTS TO CERTAIN PUBLIC ENTITIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Center
 for Mental Health Services, shall make grants to public entities for the
 purpose of providing comprehensive community mental health services to
 children with a serious emotional disturbance.
 `(2) DEFINITION OF PUBLIC ENTITY- For purposes of this subpart, the term
 `public entity' means any State, any political subdivision of a State,
 and any Indian tribe or tribal organization (as defined in section 4(b) and
 section 4(c) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act).
 `(b) CONSIDERATIONS IN MAKING GRANTS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS GRANTEE UNDER PART B OF TITLE XIX- The
 Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) to a public entity only if--
 `(A) in the case of a public entity that is a State, the State is a grantee
 under section 1911;
 `(B) in the case of a public entity that is a political subdivision of a
 State, the State in which the political subdivision is located is receiving
 such payments; and
 `(C) in the case of a public entity that is an Indian tribe or tribal
 organization, the State in which the tribe or tribal organization is located
 is receiving such payments.
 `(2) REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS MEDICAID PROVIDER-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may make a grant under
 subsection (a) only if, in the case of any service under such subsection
 that is covered in the State plan approved under title XIX of the Social
 Security Act for the State involved--
 `(i) the public entity involved will provide the service directly, and the
 entity has entered into a participation agreement under the State plan and
 is qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
 `(ii) the public entity will enter into an agreement with an organization
 under which the organization will provide the service, and the organization
 has entered into such a participation agreement and is qualified to receive
 such payments.
 `(B)(i) In the case of an organization making an agreement under subparagraph
 (A)(ii) regarding the provision of services under subsection (a), the
 requirement established in such subparagraph regarding a participation
 agreement shall be waived by the Secretary if the organization does not,
 in providing health or mental health services, impose a charge or accept
 reimbursement available from any third-party payor, including reimbursement
 under any insurance policy or under any Federal or State health benefits
 program.
 `(ii) A determination by the Secretary of whether an organization referred
 to in clause (i) meets the criteria for a waiver under such clause shall be
 made without regard to whether the organization accepts voluntary donations
 regarding the provision of services to the public.
 `(3) CERTAIN CONSIDERATIONS- In making grants under subsection (a), the
 Secretary shall--
 `(A) equitably allocate such assistance among the principal geographic
 regions of the United States;
 `(B) consider the extent to which the public entity involved has a need
 for the grant; and
 `(C) in the case of any public entity that is a political subdivision of
 a State or that is an Indian tribe or tribal organization--
 `(i) shall consider any comments regarding the application of the entity
 for such a grant that are received by the Secretary from the State in which
 the entity is located; and
 `(ii) shall give special consideration to the entity if the State agrees to
 provide a portion of the non-Federal contributions required in subsection
 (c) regarding such a grant.
 `(c) MATCHING FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under subsection (a) is that
 the public entity involved will, with respect to the costs to be incurred by
 the entity in carrying out the purpose described in such subsection, make
 available (directly or through donations from public or private entities)
 non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that--
 `(A) for the first fiscal year for which the entity receives payments from
 a grant under such subsection, is not less than $1 for each $3 of Federal
 funds provided in the grant;
 `(B) for any second or third such fiscal year, is not less than $1 for each
 $3 of Federal funds provided in the grant;
 `(C) for any fourth such fiscal year, is not less than $1 for each $1 of
 Federal funds provided in the grant; and
 `(D) for any fifth such fiscal year, is not less than $2 for each $1 of
 Federal funds provided in the grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED-
 `(A) Non-Federal contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or
 in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts
 provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to
 any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in
 determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(B) In making a determination of the amount of non-Federal contributions
 for purposes of subparagraph (A), the Secretary may include only non-Federal
 contributions in excess of the average amount of non-Federal contributions
 made by the public entity involved toward the purpose described in subsection
 (a) for the 2-year period preceding the first fiscal year for which the
 entity receives a grant under such section.
`SEC. 562. REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO CARRYING OUT PURPOSE OF GRANTS.
 `(a) SYSTEMS OF COMPREHENSIVE CARE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a)
 is that, with respect to children with a serious emotional disturbance,
 the public entity involved will carry out the purpose described in such
 section only through establishing and operating 1 or more systems of care
 for making each of the mental health services specified in subsection (c)
 available to each child provided access to the system. In providing for such
 a system, the public entity may make grants to, and enter into contracts
 with, public and nonprofit private entities.
 `(2) STRUCTURE OF SYSTEM- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 561(a) is that a system of care under paragraph (1) will--
 `(A) be established in a community selected by the public entity involved;
 `(B) consist of such public agencies and nonprofit private entities in the
 community as are necessary to ensure that each of the services specified
 in subsection (c) is available to each child provided access to the system;
 `(C) be established pursuant to agreements that the public entity enters
 into with the agencies and entities described in subparagraph (B);
 `(D) coordinate the provision of the services of the system; and
 `(E) establish an office whose functions are to serve as the location
 through which children are provided access to the system, to coordinate
 the provision of services of the system, and to provide information to the
 public regarding the system.
 `(3) COLLABORATION OF LOCAL PUBLIC ENTITIES- A funding agreement for a grant
 under section 561(a) is that, for purposes of the establishment and operation
 of a system of care under paragraph (1), the public entity involved will
 seek collaboration among all public agencies that provide human services
 in the community in which the system is established, including but not
 limited to those providing mental health services, educational services,
 child welfare services, or juvenile justice services.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON AGE OF CHILDREN PROVIDED ACCESS TO SYSTEM- A funding
 agreement for a grant under section 561(a) is that a system of care under
 subsection (a) will not provide an individual with access to the system if
 the individual is more than 21 years of age.
 `(c) REQUIRED MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES OF SYSTEM- A funding agreement for
 a grant under section 561(a) is that mental health services provided by a
 system of care under subsection (a) will include, with respect to a serious
 emotional disturbance in a child--
 `(1) diagnostic and evaluation services;
 `(2) outpatient services provided in a clinic, office, school or other
 appropriate location, including individual, group and family counseling
 services, professional consultation, and review and management of medications;
 `(3) emergency services, available 24-hours a day, 7 days a week;
 `(4) intensive home-based services for children and their families when
 the child is at imminent risk of out-of-home placement;
 `(5) intensive day-treatment services;
 `(6) respite care;
 `(7) therapeutic foster care services, and services in therapeutic foster
 family homes or individual therapeutic residential homes, and groups homes
 caring for not more than 10 children; and
 `(8) assisting the child in making the transition from the services received
 as a child to the services to be received as an adult.
 `(d) REQUIRED ARRANGEMENTS REGARDING OTHER APPROPRIATE SERVICES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a)
 is that--
 `(A) a system of care under subsection (a) will enter into a memorandum
 of understanding with each of the providers specified in paragraph (2)
 in order to facilitate the availability of the services of the provider
 involved to each child provided access to the system; and
 `(B) the grant under such section 561(a), and the non-Federal contributions
 made with respect to the grant, will not be expended to pay the costs of
 providing such non-mental health services to any individual.
 `(2) SPECIFICATION OF NON-MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES- The providers referred
 to in paragraph (1) are providers of medical services other than mental
 health services, providers of educational services, providers of vocational
 counseling and vocational rehabilitation services, and providers of protection
 and advocacy services with respect to mental health.
 `(3) FACILITATION OF SERVICES OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS- A funding agreement for
 a grant under section 561(a) is that a system of care under subsection (a)
 will, for purposes of paragraph (1), enter into a memorandum of understanding
 regarding facilitation of--
 `(A) services available pursuant to title XIX of the Social Security
 Act, including services regarding early periodic screening, diagnosis,
 and treatment;
 `(B) services available under parts B and H of the Individuals with
 Disabilities Education Act; and
 `(C) services available under other appropriate programs, as identified by
 the Secretary.
 `(e) GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING SERVICES OF SYSTEM-
 `(1) CASE MANAGEMENT SERVICES- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 561(a) is that a system of care under subsection (a) will provide for the
 case management of each child provided access to the system in order to
 ensure that--
 `(A) the services provided through the system to the child are coordinated and
 that the need of each such child for the services is periodically reassessed;
 `(B) information is provided to the family of the child on the extent of
 progress being made toward the objectives established for the child under
 the plan of services implemented for the child pursuant to section 563; and
 `(C) the system provides assistance with respect to--
 `(i) establishing the eligibility of the child, and the family of the child,
 for financial assistance and services under Federal, State, or local programs
 providing for health services, mental health services, educational services,
 social services, or other services; and
 `(ii) seeking to ensure that the child receives appropriate services
 available under such programs.
 `(2) OTHER PROVISIONS- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a)
 is that a system of care under subsection (a), in providing the services
 of the system, will--
 `(A) provide the services of the system in the cultural context that is
 most appropriate for the child and family involved;
 `(B) ensure that individuals providing such services to the child can
 effectively communicate with the child and family in the most direct manner;
 `(C) provide the services without discriminating against the child or the
 family of the child on the basis of race, religion, national origin, sex,
 disability, or age;
 `(D) seek to ensure that each child provided access to the system of
 care remains in the least restrictive, most normative environment that is
 clinically appropriate; and
 `(E) provide outreach services to inform individuals, as appropriate, of the
 services available from the system, including identifying children with a
 serious emotional disturbance who are in the early stages of such disturbance.
 `(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- An agreement made under paragraph (2) may not
 be construed--
 `(A) with respect to subparagraph (C) of such paragraph--
 `(i) to prohibit a system of care under subsection (a) from requiring that,
 in housing provided by the grantee for purposes of residential treatment
 services authorized under subsection (c), males and females be segregated
 to the extent appropriate in the treatment of the children involved; or
 `(ii) to prohibit the system of care from complying with the agreement made
 under subsection (b); or
 `(B) with respect to subparagraph (D) of such paragraph, to authorize the
 system of care to expend the grant under section 561(a) (or the non-Federal
 contributions made with respect to the grant) to provide legal services
 or any service with respect to which expenditures regarding the grant are
 prohibited under subsection (d)(1)(B).
 `(f) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GRANT- A funding agreement for a grant under
 section 561(a) is that the grant, and the non-Federal contributions made
 with respect to the grant, will not be expended--
 `(1) to purchase or improve real property (including the construction or
 renovation of facilities);
 `(2) to provide for room and board in residential programs serving 10 or
 fewer children;
 `(3) to provide for room and board or other services or expenditures
 associated with care of children in residential treatment centers serving
 more than 10 children or in inpatient hospital settings, except intensive
 home-based services and other services provided on an ambulatory or outpatient
 basis; or
 `(4) to provide for the training of any individual, except training authorized
 in section 564(a)(2) and training provided through any appropriate course
 in continuing education whose duration does not exceed 2 days.
`SEC. 563. INDIVIDUALIZED PLAN FOR SERVICES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a)  is
 that a system of care under section 562(a) will develop and carry out an
 individualized plan of services for each child provided access to the system,
 and that the plan will be developed and carried out with the participation
 of the family of the child and, unless clinically inappropriate, with the
 participation of the child.
 `(b) MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAM- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 561(a) is that the plan required in subsection (a) will be developed,
 and reviewed and as appropriate revised not less than once each year, by a
 multidisciplinary team of appropriately qualified individuals who provide
 services through the system, including as appropriate mental health services,
 other health services, educational services, social services, and vocational
 counseling and rehabilitation;
 `(c) COORDINATION WITH SERVICES UNDER INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES EDUCATION
 ACT- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a) is that, with
 respect to a plan under subsection (a) for a child, the multidisciplinary
 team required in subsection (b) will--
 `(1) in developing, carrying out, reviewing, and revising the plan consider
 any individualized education program in effect for the child pursuant to
 part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
 `(2) ensure that the plan is consistent with such individualized education
 program and provides for coordinating services under the plan with services
 under such program; and
 `(3) ensure that the memorandum of understanding entered into under section
 562(d)(3)(B) regarding such Act includes provisions regarding compliance
 with this subsection.
 `(d) CONTENTS OF PLAN- A funding agreement for a grant under section 561(a)
 is that the plan required in subsection (a) for a child will--
 `(1) identify and state the needs of the child for the services available
 pursuant to section 562 through the system;
 `(2) provide for each of such services that is appropriate to the
 circumstances of the child, including, except in the case of children who
 are less than 14 years of age, the provision of appropriate vocational
 counseling and rehabilitation, and transition services (as defined in
 section 602(a)(19) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act);
 `(3) establish objectives to be achieved regarding the needs of the child
 and the methodology for achieving the objectives; and
 `(4) designate an individual to be responsible for providing the case
 management required in section 562(e)(1) or certify that case management
 services will be provided to the child as part of the individualized education
 program of the child under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
`SEC. 564. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) OPTIONAL SERVICES- In addition to services described in subsection (c)
 of section 562, a system of care under subsection (a) of such section may,
 in expending a grant under section 561(a), provide for--
 `(1) preliminary assessments to determine whether a child should be provided
 access to the system;
 `(2) training in--
 `(A) the administration of the system;
 `(B) the provision of intensive home-based services under paragraph (4) of
 section 562(c), intensive day treatment under paragraph (5) of such section,
 and foster care or group homes under paragraph (7) of such section; and
 `(C) the development of individualized plans for purposes of section 563;
 `(3) recreational activities for children provided access to the system; and
 `(4) such other services as may be appropriate in providing for the
 comprehensive needs with respect to mental health of children with a serious
 emotional disturbance.
 `(b) COMPREHENSIVE PLAN- The Secretary may make a grant under section 561(a)
 only if, with respect to the jurisdiction of the public entity involved,
 the entity has submitted to the Secretary, and has had approved by the
 Secretary, a plan for the development of a jurisdiction-wide system of
 care for community-based services for children with a serious emotional
 disturbance that specifies the progress the public entity has made in
 developing the jurisdiction-wide system, the extent of cooperation across
 agencies serving children in the establishment of the system, the Federal
 and non-Federal resources currently committed to the establishment of the
 system, and the current gaps in community services and the manner in which
 the grant under section 561(a) will be expended to address such gaps and
 establish local systems of care.
 `(c) LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF FEES FOR SERVICES- A funding agreement
 for a grant under section 561(a) is that, if a charge is imposed for the
 provision of services under the grant, such charge--
 `(1) will be made according to a schedule of charges that is made available
 to the public;
 `(2) will be adjusted to reflect the income of the family of the child
 involved; and
 `(3) will not be imposed on any child whose family has income and resources
 of equal to or less than 100 percent of the official poverty line, as
 established by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and
 revised by the Secretary in accordance with section 673(2) of the Omnibus
 Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981.
 `(d) RELATIONSHIP TO ITEMS AND SERVICES UNDER OTHER PROGRAMS- A funding
 agreement for a grant under section 561(a) is that the grant, and the
 non-Federal contributions made with respect to the grant, will not be expended
 to make payment for any item or service to the extent that payment has been
 made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with respect to such item
 or service--
 `(1) under any State compensation program, under an insurance policy,
 or under any Federal or State health benefits program; or
 `(2) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
 `(e) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- A funding agreement for a grant
 under section 561(a) is that not more than 2 percent of the grant will be
 expended for administrative expenses incurred with respect to the grant by
 the public entity involved.
 `(f) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 561(a) is that the public entity involved will annually submit to the
 Secretary a report on the activities of the entity under the grant that
 includes a description of the number of children provided access to systems of
 care operated pursuant to the grant, the demographic characteristics of the
 children, the types and costs of services provided pursuant to the grant,
 the availability and use of third-party reimbursements, estimates of the
 unmet need for such services in the jurisdiction of the entity, and the
 manner in which the grant has been expended toward the establishment of
 a jurisdiction-wide system of care for children with a serious emotional
 disturbance, and such other information as the Secretary may require with
 respect to the grant.
 `(g) DESCRIPTION OF INTENDED USES OF GRANT- The Secretary may make a grant
 under section 561(a) only if--
 `(1) the public entity involved submits to the Secretary a description of
 the purposes for which the entity intends to expend the grant;
 `(2) the description identifies the populations, areas, and localities in the
 jurisdiction of the entity with a need for services under this section; and
 `(3) the description provides information relating to the services and
 activities to be provided, including a description of the manner in which
 the services and activities will be coordinated with any similar services
 or activities of public or nonprofit entities.
 `(h) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may make a grant under section
 561(a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary,
 the application contains the description of intended uses required in
 subsection (g), and the application is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
`SEC. 565. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) DURATION OF SUPPORT- The period during which payments are made to a
 public entity from a grant under section 561(a) may not exceed 5 fiscal years.
 `(b) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall, upon the request of a public entity
 receiving a grant under section 561(a)--
 `(A) provide technical assistance to the entity regarding the process of
 submitting to the Secretary applications for grants under section 561(a); and
 `(B) provide to the entity training and technical assistance with respect
 to the planning, development, and operation of systems of care pursuant to
 section 562.
 `(2) AUTHORITY FOR GRANTS AND CONTRACTS- The Secretary may provide technical
 assistance under subsection (a) directly or through grants to, or contracts
 with, public and nonprofit private entities.
 `(c) EVALUATIONS AND REPORTS BY SECRETARY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall, directly or through contracts with
 public or private entities, provide for annual evaluations of programs
 carried out pursuant to section 561(a). The evaluations shall assess the
 effectiveness of the systems of care operated pursuant to such section,
 including longitudinal studies of outcomes of services provided by such
 systems, other studies regarding such outcomes, the effect of activities under
 this subpart on the utilization of hospital and other institutional settings,
 the barriers to and achievements resulting from interagency collaboration
 in providing community-based services to children with a serious emotional
 disturbance, and assessments by parents of the effectiveness of the systems
 of care.
 `(2) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Secretary shall, not later than 1 year after
 the date on which amounts are first appropriated under subsection (c), and
 annually thereafter, submit to the Congress a report summarizing evaluations
 carried out pursuant to paragraph (1) during the preceding fiscal year and
 making such recommendations for administrative and legislative initiatives
 with respect to this section as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subpart:
 `(1) The term `child' means an individual not more than 21 years of age.
 `(2) The term `family', with respect to a child provided access to a system
 of care under section 562(a), means--
 `(A) the legal guardian of the child; and
 `(B) as appropriate regarding mental health services for the child, the
 parents of the child (biological or adoptive, as the case may be) and any
 foster parents of the child.
 `(3) The term `funding agreement', with respect to a grant under section
 561(a) to a public entity, means that the Secretary may make such a grant
 only if the public entity makes the agreement involved.
 `(4) The term `serious emotional disturbance' includes, with respect to a
 child, any child who has a serious emotional disorder, a serious behavioral
 disorder, or a serious mental disorder.
 `(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this part shall be construed as
 limiting the rights of a child with a serious emotional disturbance under
 the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
 `(f) FUNDING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, there are authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) SET-ASIDE REGARDING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- Of the amounts appropriated
 under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall make available
 not less than $3,000,000 for the purpose of carrying out subsection (b).'.
SEC. 120. STRIKING OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS AND TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING
AMENDMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa
 et seq.) as such title existed 1 day prior to the date of enactment of this
 Act, is amended by striking out sections 509B, 509C, 509E, 509F and 509G
 (42 U.S.C. 290aa-9, 290aa-10, 290aa-12, 290aa-13, and 290aa-14).
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Title V of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in the heading for such title, to read as follows:
`TITLE V--SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION';
 (2) in the heading for part A, to read as follows:
`Part A--Organization and General Authorities'; and
 (3) by striking out section 518.
Subtitle B--Institutes
SEC. 121. ORGANIZATION OF NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 401(b)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 281(b)(1)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
 new subparagraphs:
 `(N) The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
 `(O) The National Institute on Drug Abuse.
 `(P) The National Institute of Mental Health.'.
 (b) DEFINITION- Part B of title IV of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 284 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following
 new section:
`DEFINITIONS
 `SEC. 409. For purposes of this title, the term `health services research'
 means research endeavors that study the impact of the organization,
 financing and management of health services on the quality, cost, access
 to and outcomes of care.'.
SEC. 122. NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON ALCOHOL ABUSE AND ALCOHOLISM.
 (a) CREATION OF SUBPART- Part C of title IV of the Public Health Service
 Act (42 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new subpart:
`Subpart 14--National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism
`PURPOSE OF INSTITUTE
 `SEC. 464H. (a) IN GENERAL- The general purpose of the National Institute
 of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (hereafter in this subpart referred to as
 the `Institute') is the conduct and support of biomedical and behavioral
 research, health services research, research training, and health information
 dissemination with respect to the prevention of alcohol abuse and the
 treatment of alcoholism.'.
 (b) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS-
 (1) RESEARCH PROGRAM- Subsection (b) of section 510 of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb and 290bb-1), as such section existed 1 day
 prior to the date of the enactment of this Act--
 (A) is transferred to section 464H of the Public Health Service Act, as
 added by subsection (a) of this section; and
 (B) is inserted after subsection (a) of such section 464H.
Such section 510, as so amended, is repealed.
 (2) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS- Section 464H of the Public Health Service Act
 (as amended by paragraph (1)) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b)--
 (i) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking `(b) In carrying
 out the program' and all that follows through `Institute, is authorized'
 and inserting the following: `(b) RESEARCH PROGRAM- The research program
 established under this subpart shall encompass the social, behavioral, and
 biomedical etiology, mental and physical health consequences, and social
 and economic consequences of alcohol abuse and alcoholism. In carrying out
 the program, the Director of the Institute is authorized'; and
 (ii) in paragraph (3)(H), by striking out the period and inserting in lieu
 thereof a semicolon; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following subsections:
 `(c) COLLABORATION- The Director of the Institute shall collaborate
 with the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration in focusing the services research activities of the Institute
 and in disseminating the results of such research to health professionals
 and the general public.
 `(d) FUNDING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, there are authorized to be appropriated $300,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) ALLOCATION FOR HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH- Of the amounts appropriated
 under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Director shall obligate not less
 than 15 percent to carry out health services research relating to alcohol
 abuse and alcoholism.'.
 (c) ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR PREVENTION- Subpart 14 of part C of title IV
 (as added by subsection (a)) is amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new section:
`ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR PREVENTION
 `SEC. 464I. (a) IN GENERAL- There shall be in the Institute an Associate
 Director for Prevention who shall be responsible for the full-time
 coordination and promotion of the programs in the Institute concerning the
 prevention of alcohol abuse and alcoholism. The Associate Director shall be
 appointed by the Director of the Institute from individuals who because of
 their professional training or expertise are experts in alcohol abuse and
 alcoholism or the prevention of such.
 `(b) BIENNIAL REPORT- The Associate Director for Prevention shall prepare
 for inclusion in the biennial report made under section 407 a description
 of the prevention activities of the Institute, including a description of
 the staff and resources allocated to those activities.'.
 (d) NATIONAL CENTER FOR RESEARCH-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 511 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb
 and 290bb-1) as such section existed 1 day prior to the date of enactment
 of this Act--
 (A) is transferred to subpart 14 of part C of title IV of such Act (as
 added by subsection (a));
 (B) is redesignated as section 464J; and
 (C) is inserted after section 464I (as added by subsection (c)).
 (2) TECHNICAL CORRECTION- Section 464J of the Public Health Service Act (as
 added by paragraph (1)) is amended in subsection (b) by striking `or rental'.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 513 of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 290bb-2), as such section existed 1 day prior to the date of
 enactment of this Act, is repealed.
SEC. 123. NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DRUG ABUSE.
 (a) CREATION OF SUBPART- Part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) (as amended by section 122) is further amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new subpart:
`Subpart 15--National Institute on Drug Abuse
`PURPOSE OF INSTITUTE
 `SEC. 464L. (a) IN GENERAL- The general purpose of the National Institute on
 Drug Abuse (hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Institute') is the
 conduct and support of biomedical and behavioral research, health services
 research, research training, and health information dissemination with
 respect to the prevention of drug abuse and the treatment of drug abusers.
 `(b) RESEARCH PROGRAM- The research program established under this subpart
 shall encompass the social, behavioral, and biomedical etiology, mental and
 physical health consequences, and social and economic consequences of drug
 abuse. In carrying out the program, the Director of the Institute shall
 give special consideration to projects relating to drug abuse among women
 (particularly with respect to pregnant women).
 `(c) COLLABORATION- The Director of the Institute shall collaborate with
 the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration in focusing
 the services research activities of the Institute and in disseminating the
 results of such research to health professionals and the general public.
 `(d) FUNDING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, there are authorized to be appropriated $440,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) ALLOCATION FOR HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH- Of the amounts appropriated
 under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Director shall obligate not
 less than 15 percent to carry out health services research relating to
 drug abuse.'.
 (b) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS- Subpart 15 of part C of title IV of the Public
 Health Service Act  (as added by subsection (a)) is amended by adding at
 the end thereof the following new sections:
`ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR PREVENTION
 `SEC. 464M. (a) IN GENERAL- There shall be in the Institute an Associate
 Director for Prevention who shall be responsible for the full-time
 coordination and promotion of the programs in the Institute concerning
 the prevention of drug abuse. The Associate Director shall be appointed
 by the Director of the Institute from individuals who because of their
 professional training or expertise are experts in drug abuse and the
 prevention of such abuse.
 `(b) REPORT- The Associate Director for Prevention shall prepare for
 inclusion in the biennial report made under section 407 a description of
 the prevention activities of the Institute, including a description of the
 staff and resources allocated to those activities.
`DRUG ABUSE RESEARCH CENTERS
 `SEC. 464N. (a) AUTHORITY- The Director of the Institute may designate
 National Drug Abuse Research Centers for the purpose of interdisciplinary
 research relating to drug abuse and other biomedical, behavioral, and social
 issues related to drug abuse. No entity may be designated as a Center
 unless an application therefore has been submitted to, and approved by,
 the Secretary. Such an application shall be submitted in such manner and
 contain such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. The
 Secretary may not approve such an application unless--
 `(1) the application contains or is supported by reasonable assurances that--
 `(A) the applicant has the experience, or capability, to conduct, through
 biomedical, behavioral, social, and related disciplines, long-term research
 on drug abuse and to provide coordination of such research among such
 disciplines;
 `(B) the applicant has available to it sufficient facilities (including
 laboratory, reference, and data analysis facilities) to carry out the
 research plan contained in the application;
 `(C) the applicant has facilities and personnel to provide training in the
 prevention and treatment of drug abuse;
 `(D) the applicant has the capacity to train predoctoral and postdoctoral
 students for careers in research on drug abuse;
 `(E) the applicant has the capacity to conduct courses on drug abuse
 problems and research on drug abuse for undergraduate and graduate students,
 and medical and osteopathic, nursing, social work, and other specialized
 graduate students; and
 `(F) the applicant has the capacity to conduct programs of continuing
 education in such medical, legal, and social service fields as the Secretary
 may require.
 `(2) the application contains a detailed five-year plan for research relating
 to drug abuse.
 `(b) GRANTS- The Director of the Institute shall, under such conditions as the
 Secretary may reasonably require, make annual grants to Centers which have
 been designated under this section. No funds provided under a grant under
 this subsection may be used for the purchase of any land or the purchase,
 construction, preservation, or repair of any building. For the purposes of
 the preceding sentence, the term `construction' has the meaning given that
 term by section 701(2).
`OFFICE ON AIDS
 `SEC. 464O. The Director of the Institute shall establish within the
 Institute an Office on AIDS. The Office shall be responsible for the
 coordination of research and determining the direction of the Institute
 with respect to AIDS research related to--
 `(1) primary prevention of the spread of HIV, including transmission via
 drug abuse;
 `(2) drug abuse services research; and
 `(3) other matters determined appropriate by the Director.
`MEDICATION DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
 `SEC. 464P. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Institute a
 Medication Development Program through which the Director of such Institute
 shall--
 `(1) conduct periodic meetings with the Commissioner of Food and Drugs to
 discuss measures that may facilitate the approval process of drug abuse
 treatments;
 `(2) encourage and promote (through grants, contracts, international
 collaboration, or otherwise) expanded research programs, investigations,
 experiments, community trials, and studies, into the development and use
 of medications to treat drug addiction;
 `(3) establish or provide for the establishment of research facilities;
 `(4) report on the activities of other relevant agencies relating to the
 development and use of pharmacotherapeutic treatments for drug addiction;
 `(5) collect, analyze, and disseminate data useful in the development and use
 of pharmacotherapeutic treatments for drug addiction and collect, catalog,
 analyze, and disseminate through international channels, the results of
 such research;
 `(6) directly or through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements,
 support training in the fundamental sciences and clinical disciplines
 related to the pharmacotherapeutic treatment of drug abuse, including the
 use of training stipends, fellowships, and awards where appropriate; and
 `(7) coordinate the activities conducted under this section with related
 activities conducted within the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
 Alcoholism, the National Institute of Mental Health, and other appropriate
 institutes and shall consult with the Directors of such Institutes.
 `(b) DUTIES- In carrying out the activities described in subsection (a),
 the Director of the Institute--
 `(1) shall collect and disseminate through publications and other appropriate
 means, information pertaining to the research and other activities under
 this section;
 `(2) shall make grants to or enter into contracts and cooperative agreements
 with individuals and public and private entities to further the goals of
 the program;
 `(3) may, in accordance with section 496, and in consultation with the
 National Advisory Council on Drug Abuse, acquire, construct, improve, repair,
 operate, and maintain pharmacotherapeutic research centers, laboratories,
 and other necessary facilities and equipment, and such other real or personal
 property as the Director determines necessary, and may, in consultation
 with such Advisory Council, make grants for the construction or renovation
 of facilities to carry out the purposes of this section;
 `(4) may accept voluntary and uncompensated services;
 `(5) may accept gifts, or donations of services, money, or property, real,
 personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible; and
 `(6) shall take necessary action to ensure that all channels for the
 dissemination and exchange of scientific knowledge and information are
 maintained between the Administration and the other scientific, medical,
 and biomedical disciplines and organizations nationally and internationally.
 `(c) REPORT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Not later than December 31, 1992, and each December 31
 thereafter, the Director of the Institute shall submit to the Office of
 National Drug Control Policy established under section 1002 of the Anti-Drug
 Abuse Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1501) a report, in accordance with paragraph
 (3), that describes the objectives and activities of the program assisted
 under this section.
 `(2) NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL STRATEGY- The Director of National Drug Control
 Policy shall incorporate, by reference or otherwise, each report submitted
 under this subsection in the National Drug Control Strategy submitted the
 following February 1 under section 1005 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988
 (21 U.S.C. 1504).
 `(d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `pharmacotherapeutics'
 means medications used to treat the symptoms and disease of drug abuse,
 including medications to--
 `(1) block the effects of abused drugs;
 `(2) reduce the craving for abused drugs;
 `(3) moderate or eliminate withdrawal symptoms;
 `(4) block or reverse the toxic effect of abused drugs; or
 `(5) prevent relapse in persons who have been detoxified from drugs of abuse.
 `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $85,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and $95,000,000 for fiscal year 1994.'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 515, 516, and 517 of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc) as such sections existed 1 day prior to the
 date of enactment of this Act are repealed.
SEC. 124. NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH.
 (a) CREATION OF SUBPART- Part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act
 (42 U.S.C. 285 et seq.) (as amended by section 123) is further amended by
 adding at the end thereof the following new subpart:
`Subpart 16--National Institute of Mental Health
`PURPOSE OF INSTITUTE
 `SEC. 464R. (a) IN GENERAL- The general purpose of the National Institute
 of Mental Health (hereafter in this subpart referred to as the `Institute')
 is the conduct and support of biomedical and behavioral research, health
 services research, research training, and health information dissemination
 with respect to the cause, diagnosis, treatment, control and prevention of
 mental illness.
 `(b) RESEARCH PROGRAM- The research program established under this subpart
 shall include support for biomedical and behavioral neuroscience and shall
 be designed to further the treatment and prevention of mental illness,
 the promotion of mental health, and the study of the psychological, social
 and legal factors that influence behavior.
 `(c) COLLABORATION- The Director of the Institute shall collaborate
 with the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration in focusing the services research activities of the Institute
 and in disseminating the results of such research to health professionals
 and the general public.
 `(d) INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO SUICIDE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Institute shall--
 `(A) develop and publish information with respect to the causes of suicide
 and the means of preventing suicide; and
 `(B) make such information generally available to the public and to health
 professionals.
 `(2) YOUTH SUICIDE- Information described in paragraph (1) shall especially
 relate to suicide among individuals under 24 years of age.
 `(e) ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR SPECIAL POPULATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Institute shall designate an Associate
 Director for Special Populations.
 `(2) DUTIES- The Associate Director for Special Populations shall--
 `(A) develop and coordinate research policies and programs to assure increased
 emphasis on the mental health needs of women and minority populations;
 `(B) support programs of basic and applied social and behavioral research
 on the mental health problems of women and minority populations;
 `(C) study the effects of discrimination on institutions and individuals,
 including majority institutions and individuals;
 `(D) support and develop research designed to eliminate institutional
 discrimination; and
 `(E) provide increased emphasis on the concerns of women and minority
 populations in training programs, service delivery programs, and research
 endeavors of the Institute.
 `(f) FUNDING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart other than section 464P, there are authorized to be appropriated
 $675,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for
 fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) ALLOCATION FOR HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH- Of the amounts appropriated
 under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Director shall obligate not
 less than 15 percent to carry out health services research relating to
 mental health.'.
 (b) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS- Subpart 16 of part C of title IV (as added
 by subsection (a)) is further amended by adding at the end thereof the
 following new section:
`ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR FOR PREVENTION
 `SEC. 464S. (a) IN GENERAL- There shall be in the Institute an Associate
 Director for Prevention who shall be responsible for the full-time
 coordination and promotion of the programs in the Institute concerning the
 prevention of mental disorder. The Associate Director shall be appointed
 by the Director of the Institute from individuals who because of their
 professional training or expertise are experts in mental disorder and the
 prevention of such.
 `(b) REPORT- The Associate Director for Prevention shall prepare for
 inclusion in the biennial report made under section 407 a description of
 the prevention activities of the Institute, including a description of the
 staff and resources allocated to those activities.
`OFFICE OF RURAL MENTAL HEALTH RESEARCH
 `SEC. 464T. (a) IN GENERAL- There is established within the Institute an
 office to be known as the Office of Rural Mental Health Research (hereafter
 in this section referred to as the `Office'). The Office shall be headed by
 a director, who shall be appointed by the Director of such Institute from
 among individuals experienced or knowledgeable in the provision of mental
 health services in rural areas. The Secretary shall carry out the authorities
 established in this section acting through the Director of the Office.
 `(b) COORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES- The Director of the Office, in consultation
 with the Director of the Institute and with the Director of the Office of
 Rural Health Policy, shall--
 `(1) coordinate the research activities of the Department of Health and
 Human Services as such activities relate to the mental health of residents
 of rural areas; and
 `(2) coordinate the activities of the Office with similar activities of
 public and nonprofit private entities.
 `(c) RESEARCH, DEMONSTRATIONS, EVALUATIONS, AND DISSEMINATION- The Director
 of the Office may, with respect to the mental health of adults and children
 residing in rural areas--
 `(1) conduct research on conditions that are unique to the residents of
 rural areas, or more serious or prevalent in such residents;
 `(2) conduct research on improving the delivery of services in such areas; and
 `(3) disseminate information to appropriate public and nonprofit private
 entities.
 `(d) AUTHORITY REGARDING GRANTS AND CONTRACTS- The Director of the Office
 may carry out the authorities established in subsection (c) directly and
 through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts with public or nonprofit
 private entities.
 `(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than February 1, 1993, and each fiscal
 year thereafter, the Director shall submit to the Subcommittee on Health
 and the Environment of the Committee on Energy and Commerce (of the House
 of Representatives), and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources (of
 the Senate), a report describing the activities of the Office during the
 preceding fiscal year, including a summary of the activities of demonstration
 projects and a summary of evaluations of the projects.
`OFFICE ON AIDS
 `SEC. 464U. The Director of the Institute shall establish within the
 Institute an Office on AIDS. The Office shall be responsible for the
 coordination of research and determining the direction of the Institute
 with respect to AIDS research related to--
 `(1) primary prevention of the spread of HIV, including transmission via
 sexual behavior;
 `(2) mental health services research; and
 `(3) other matters determined appropriate by the Director.'.
SEC. 125. COLLABORATIVE USE OF CERTAIN HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH FUNDS.
 Part G of title IV of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting
 after section 494 (42 U.S.C. 289c) the following new section:
`COLLABORATIVE USE OF CERTAIN HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH FUNDS
 `SEC. 494A. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall ensure that amounts made
 available under subparts 14, 15 and 16 of part C for health services research
 relating to alcohol abuse and alcoholism, drug abuse and mental health be
 used collaboratively, as appropriate, and in consultation with the Agency
 for Health Care Policy Research.
 `(b) REPORT- Not later than May 3, 1993, and annually thereafter,
 the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and
 Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and
 Human Resources of the Senate, a report concerning the activities carried
 out with the amounts referred to in subsection (a).'.
Subtitle C--Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to Substance Abuse and Mental
Health
SEC. 131. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS RELATING TO SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL
HEALTH.
 Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd et
 seq.) is amended to read as follows:
`Part D--Miscellaneous Provisions Relating to Substance Abuse and Mental Health
`SEC. 541. SUBSTANCE ABUSE AMONG GOVERNMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEES.
 `(a) PROGRAMS AND SERVICES-
 `(1) DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of
 the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, shall be
 responsible for fostering substance abuse prevention and treatment programs
 and services in State and local governments and in private industry.
 `(2) MODEL PROGRAMS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Consistent with the responsibilities described in paragraph
 (1), the Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse
 and Mental Health Services Administration, shall develop a variety of model
 programs suitable for replication on a cost-effective basis in different
 types of business concerns and State and local governmental entities.
 `(B) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION- The Secretary, acting through
 the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration, shall disseminate information and materials relative to such
 model programs to the State agencies responsible for the administration of
 substance abuse prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation activities and
 shall, to the extent feasible provide technical assistance to such agencies
 as requested.
 `(b) DEPRIVATION OF EMPLOYMENT-
 `(1) PROHIBITION- No person may be denied or deprived of Federal civilian
 employment or a Federal professional or other license or right solely on
 the grounds of prior substance abuse.
 `(2) APPLICATION- This subsection shall not apply to employment in--
 `(A) the Central Intelligence Agency;
 `(B) the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
 `(C) the National Security Agency;
 `(D) any other department or agency of the Federal Government designated
 for purposes of national security by the President; or
 `(E) in any position in any department or agency of the Federal Government,
 not referred to in subparagraphs (A) through (D), which position is determined
 pursuant to regulations prescribed by the head of such agency or department
 to be a sensitive position.
 `(3) REHABILITATION ACT- The inapplicability of the prohibition described
 in paragraph (1) to the employment described in paragraph (2) shall not be
 construed to reflect on the applicability of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973
 or other anti-discrimination laws to such employment.
 `(c) CONSTRUCTION- This section shall not be construed to prohibit the
 dismissal from employment of a Federal civilian employee who cannot properly
 function in his employment.
`SEC. 542. ADMISSION OF SUBSTANCE ABUSERS TO PRIVATE AND PUBLIC HOSPITALS
AND OUTPATIENT FACILITIES.
 `(a) NONDISCRIMINATION- Substance abusers who are suffering from medical
 conditions shall not be discriminated against in admission or treatment,
 solely because of their substance abuse, by any private or public general
 hospital, or outpatient facility (as defined in section 1624(4)) which
 receives support in any form from any program supported in whole or in part
 by funds appropriated to any Federal department or agency.
 `(b) REGULATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall issue regulations for the enforcement of
 the policy of subsection (a) with respect to the admission and treatment of
 substance abusers in hospitals and outpatient facilities which receive support
 of any kind from any program administered by the Secretary. Such regulations
 shall include procedures for determining (after opportunity for a hearing
 if requested) if a violation of subsection (a) has occurred, notification
 of failure to comply with such subsection, and opportunity for a violator
 to comply with such subsection. If the Secretary determines that a hospital
 or outpatient facility subject to such regulations has violated subsection
 (a) and such violation continues after an opportunity has been afforded for
 compliance, the Secretary may suspend or revoke, after opportunity for a
 hearing, all or part of any support of any kind received by such hospital
 from any program administered by the Secretary. The Secretary may consult
 with the officials responsible for the administration of any other Federal
 program from which such hospital or outpatient facility receives support
 of any kind, with respect to the suspension or revocation of such other
 Federal support for such hospital or outpatient facility.
 `(2) DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS- The Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
 acting through the Chief Medical Director, shall, to the maximum feasible
 extent consistent with their responsibilities under title 38, United States
 Code, prescribe regulations making applicable the regulations prescribed
 by the Secretary under paragraph (1) to the provision of hospital care,
 nursing home care, domiciliary care, and medical services under such
 title 38 to veterans suffering from substance abuse. In prescribing and
 implementing regulations pursuant to this paragraph, the Secretary shall,
 from time to time, consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 in order to achieve the maximum possible coordination of the regulations,
 and the implementation thereof, which they each prescribe.
`SEC. 543. CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT- Records of the identity, diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment
 of any patient which are maintained in connection with the performance of
 any program or activity relating to substance abuse education, prevention,
 training, treatment, rehabilitation, or research, which is conducted,
 regulated, or directly or indirectly assisted by any department or agency of
 the United States shall, except as provided in subsection (e), be confidential
 and be disclosed only for the purposes and under the circumstances expressly
 authorized under subsection (b).
 `(b) PERMITTED DISCLOSURE-
 `(1) CONSENT- The content of any record referred to in subsection (a) may
 be disclosed in accordance with the prior written consent of the patient
 with respect to whom such record is maintained, but only to such extent,
 under such circumstances, and for such purposes as may be allowed under
 regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (g).
 `(2) METHOD FOR DISCLOSURE- Whether or not the patient, with respect to
 whom any given record referred to in subsection (a) is maintained, gives
 written consent, the content of such record may be disclosed as follows:
 `(A) To medical personnel to the extent necessary to meet a bona fide
 medical emergency.
 `(B) To qualified personnel for the purpose of conducting scientific
 research, management audits, financial audits, or program evaluation, but
 such personnel may not identify, directly or indirectly, any individual
 patient in any report of such research, audit, or evaluation, or otherwise
 disclose patient identities in any manner.
 `(C) If authorized by an appropriate order of a court of competent
 jurisdiction granted after application showing good cause therefor, including
 the need to avert a substantial risk of death or serious bodily harm. In
 assessing good cause the court shall weigh the public interest and the need
 for disclosure against the injury to the patient, to the physician-patient
 relationship, and to the treatment services. Upon the granting of such
 order, the court, in determining the extent to which any disclosure of all
 or any part of any record is necessary, shall impose appropriate safeguards
 against unauthorized disclosure.
 `(c) USE OF RECORDS IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS- Except as authorized by a
 court order granted under subsection (b)(2)(C), no record referred to in
 subsection (a) may be used to initiate or substantiate any criminal charges
 against a patient or to conduct any investigation of a patient.
 `(d) APPLICATION- The prohibitions of this section continue to apply to
 records concerning any individual who has been a patient, irrespective of
 whether or when such individual ceases to be a patient.
 `(e) NONAPPLICABILITY- The prohibitions of this section do not apply to
 any interchange of records--
 `(1) within the Armed Forces or within those components of the Department
 of Veterans Affairs furnishing health care to veterans; or
 `(2) between such components and the Armed Forces.
The prohibitions of this section do not apply to the reporting under State
law of incidents of suspected child abuse and neglect to the appropriate
State or local authorities.
 `(f) PENALTIES- Any person who violates any provision of this section or
 any regulation issued pursuant to this section shall be fined in accordance
 with title 18, United States Code.
 `(g) REGULATIONS- Except as provided in subsection (h), the Secretary
 shall prescribe regulations to carry out the purposes of this section. Such
 regulations may contain such definitions, and may provide for such safeguards
 and procedures, including procedures and criteria for the issuance and scope
 of orders under subsection (b)(2)(C), as in the judgment of the Secretary are
 necessary or proper to effectuate the purposes of this section, to prevent
 circumvention or evasion thereof, or to facilitate compliance therewith.
 `(h) APPLICATION TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS- The Secretary of
 Veterans Affairs, acting through the Chief Medical Director, shall, to
 the maximum feasible extent consistent with their responsibilities under
 title 38, United States Code, prescribe regulations making applicable the
 regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under
 subsection (g) of this section to records maintained in connection with the
 provision of hospital care, nursing home care, domiciliary care, and medical
 services under such title 38 to veterans suffering from substance abuse. In
 prescribing and implementing regulations pursuant to this subsection,
 the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, from time to time, consult with
 the Secretary of Health and Human Services in order to achieve the maximum
 possible coordination of the regulations, and the implementation thereof,
 which they each prescribe.'.
Subtitle D--Transfer Provisions
SEC. 141. TRANSFERS.
 (a) SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION- Except as
 specifically provided otherwise in this Act or an amendment made by this
 Act, there are transferred to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and
 Mental Health Services Administration all service related functions which the
 Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration,
 or the Director of any entity within the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental
 Health Administration, exercised before the date of the enactment of this
 Act and all related functions of any officer or employee of the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration.
 (b) NATIONAL INSTITUTES- Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Act
 or an amendment made by this Act, there are transferred to the appropriate
 Directors of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the
 National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health,
 through the Director of the National Institutes of Health, all research
 related functions which the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and
 Mental Health Administration exercised before the date of the enactment of
 this Act and all related functions of any officer or employee of the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration.
 (c) ADEQUATE PERSONNEL AND RESOURCES- The transfers required under this
 subtitle shall be effectuated in a manner that ensures that the Substance
 Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration has adequate personnel and
 resources to carry out its statutory responsibilities and that the National
 Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health have adequate personnel
 and resources to enable such institutes to carry out their respective
 statutory responsibilities.
SEC. 142. TRANSFER AND ALLOCATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS AND PERSONNEL.
 (a) SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION- Except as
 otherwise provided in the Public Health Service Act, all personnel employed
 in connection with, and all assets, liabilities, contracts, property,
 records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations,
 allocations, and other funds employed, used, held, arising from, available
 to, or to be made available in connection with the functions transferred
 to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration by this subtitle, subject to section 1531 of title 31,
 United States Code, shall be transferred to the Substance Abuse and Mental
 Health Services Administration. Unexpended funds transferred pursuant to
 this subsection shall be used only for the purposes for which the funds
 were originally authorized and appropriated.
 (b) NATIONAL INSTITUTES- Except as otherwise provided in the Public Health
 Service Act, all personnel employed in connection with, and all assets,
 liabilities, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances of
 appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds employed, used,
 held, arising from, available to, or to be made available in connection
 with the functions transferred to the Directors of the National Institute
 on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse
 and the National Institute of Mental Health by this subtitle, subject to
 section 1531 of title 31, United States Code, shall be transferred to the
 National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute
 on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health.  Unexpended funds
 transferred pursuant to this subsection shall be used only for the purposes
 for which the funds were originally authorized and appropriated.
 (c) CUSTODY OF BALANCES- The actual transfer of custody of obligation
 balances is not required in order to implement this section.
SEC. 143. INCIDENTAL TRANSFERS.
 Prior to October 1, 1992, the Secretary of Health and Human Services is
 authorized to make such determinations as may be necessary with regard
 to the functions transferred by this subtitle, and to make such additional
 incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, grants, contracts,
 property, records, and unexpended balances of appropriations, authorizations,
 allocations, and other funds held, used, arising from, available to, or to
 be made available in connection with such functions, as may be necessary
 to carry out the provisions of this subtitle and the Public Health Service
 Act. Such Secretary shall provide for the termination of the affairs of
 all entities terminated by this subtitle and for such further measures and
 dispositions as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this subtitle.
SEC. 144. EFFECT ON PERSONNEL.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided by this subtitle and the
 Public Health Service Act, the transfer pursuant to this subtitle of
 full-time personnel (except special Government employees) and part-time
 personnel holding permanent positions shall not cause any such employee
 to be separated or reduced in grade or compensation for one year after the
 date of transfer of such employee under this subtitle.
 (b) EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE POSITIONS- Any person who, on the day preceding the
 effective date of this Act, held a position compensated in accordance with
 the Executive Schedule prescribed in chapter 53 of title 5, United States
 Code, and who, without a break in service, is appointed in the Substance
 Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to a position having duties
 comparable to the duties performed immediately preceding such appointment
 shall continue to be compensated in such new position at not less than the
 rate provided for such previous position, for the duration of the service
 of such person in such new position.
SEC. 145. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.
 (a) EFFECT ON PREVIOUS DETERMINATIONS- All orders, determinations, rules,
 regulations, permits, contracts, certificates, licenses, and privileges that--
 (1) have been issued, made, granted, or allowed to become effective by the
 President, any Federal agency or official thereof, or by a court of competent
 jurisdiction, in the performance of functions which are transferred by this
 subtitle; and
 (2) are in effect on the date of enactment of this Act;
shall continue in effect according to their terms until modified, terminated,
superseded, set aside, or revoked in accordance with law by the President,
the Director of the National Institutes of Health, or the Administrator of
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, as appropriate,
a court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law.
 (b) CONTINUATION OF PROCEEDINGS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The provisions of this subtitle shall not affect any
 proceedings, including notices of proposed rule making, or any application
 for any license, permit, certificate, or financial assistance pending
 on the date of enactment of this Act before the Department of Health and
 Human Services, which relates to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health
 Administration or the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 the National Institute on Drug Abuse, or the National Institute of Mental
 Health, or any office thereof with respect to functions transferred by this
 subtitle. Such proceedings or applications, to the extent that they relate
 to functions transferred, shall be continued. Orders shall be issued in such
 proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments shall be made
 under such orders, as if this Act had not been enacted, and orders issued in
 any such proceedings shall continue in effect until modified, terminated,
 superseded, or revoked by the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and
 Mental Health Services Administration or the Directors of the National
 Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health by a court of competent
 jurisdiction, or by operation of law. Nothing in this subsection prohibits
 the discontinuance or modification of any such proceeding under the same
 terms and conditions and to the same extent that such proceeding could have
 been discontinued or modified if this subtitle had not been enacted.
 (2) REGULATIONS- The Secretary of Health and Human Services is authorized
 to issue regulations providing for the orderly transfer of proceedings
 continued under paragraph (1).
 (c) EFFECT ON LEGAL ACTIONS- Except as provided in subsection (e)--
 (1) the provisions of this subtitle do not affect actions commenced prior
 to the date of enactment of this Act; and
 (2) in all such actions, proceedings shall be had, appeals taken, and
 judgments rendered in the same manner and effect as if this Act had not
 been enacted.
 (d) NO ABATEMENT OF ACTIONS OR PROCEEDINGS- No action or other proceeding
 commenced by or against any officer in his official capacity as an officer
 of the Department of Health and Human Services with respect to functions
 transferred by this subtitle shall abate by reason of the enactment of
 this Act. No cause of action by or against the Department of Health and
 Human Services with respect to functions transferred by this subtitle,
 or by or against any officer thereof in his official capacity, shall abate
 by reason of the enactment of this Act. Causes of action and actions with
 respect to a function transferred by this subtitle, or other proceedings
 may be asserted by or against the United States or the Administrator of
 the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration or the Directors
 of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National
 Institute on Drug Abuse, and the National Institute of Mental Health, as
 may be appropriate, and, in an action pending when this Act takes effect,
 the court may at any time, on its own motion or that of any party, enter
 an order which will give effect to the provisions of this subsection.
 (e) SUBSTITUTION- If, before the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Department of Health and Human Services, or any officer thereof in the
 official capacity of such officer, is a party to an action, and under this
 subtitle any function of such Department, Office, or officer is transferred
 to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration or the Directors of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse
 and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National
 Institute of Mental Health, then such action shall be continued with the
 Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
 or the Directors of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental
 Health, as the case may be, substituted or added as a party.
 (f) JUDICIAL REVIEW- Orders and actions of the Administrator of the Substance
 Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration or the Directors of the
 National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute
 on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health in the exercise
 of functions transferred to the Directors by this subtitle shall be subject
 to judicial review to the same extent and in the same manner as if such
 orders and actions had been by the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse
 and Mental Health Administration or the Directors of the National Institute
 on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, and
 the National Institute of Mental Health, or any office or officer thereof,
 in the exercise of such functions immediately preceding their transfer. Any
 statutory requirements relating to notice, hearings, action upon the record,
 or administrative review that apply to any function transferred by this
 subtitle shall apply to the exercise of such function by the Administrator
 of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration or the
 Directors.
SEC. 146. TRANSITION.
 With the consent of the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the
 Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
 and the Directors of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental
 Health are authorized to utilize--
 (1) the services of such officers, employees, and other personnel of the
 Department with respect to functions transferred to the Administrator of the
 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and the Director
 of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National
 Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental Health by this
 subtitle; and
 (2) funds appropriated to such functions for such period of time as may
 reasonably be needed to facilitate the orderly implementation of this
 subtitle.
SEC. 147. PEER REVIEW.
 With respect to fiscal years 1993 through 1996, the peer review systems,
 advisory councils and scientific advisory committees utilized, or approved
 for utilization, by the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 the National Institute on Drug Abuse and the National Institute of Mental
 Health prior to the transfer of such Institutes to the National Institute
 of Health shall be utilized by such Institutes.
SEC. 148. MERGERS.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of section 401(c)(2) of the Public Health
 Service Act (42 U.S.C. 281(c)(2)), the Secretary of Health and Human Services
 may not merge the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 the National Institute on Drug Abuse or the National Institute of Mental
 Health with any other institute or entity (or with each other) within the
 national research institutes for a 5-year period beginning on the date of
 enactment of this Act.
SEC. 149. CONDUCT OF MULTI-YEAR RESEARCH PROJECTS.
 With respect to multi-year grants awarded prior to fiscal year 1993 by the
 National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on
 Drug Abuse, and the National Institute of Mental Health with amounts received
 under section 1911(b), as such section existed one day prior to the date of
 enactment of this Act, such grants shall be continued for the entire period of
 the grant through the utilization of funds made available pursuant to sections
 464I, 464O, or 464T, as appropriate, subject to satisfactory performance.
SEC. 150. SEPARABILITY.
 If a provision of this subtitle or its application to any person or
 circumstance is held invalid, neither the remainder of this Act nor the
 application of the provision to other persons or circumstances shall be
 affected.
SEC. 151. BUDGETARY AUTHORITY.
 With respect to fiscal years 1994 and 1995, the Directors of the National
 Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse, and the National Institute of Mental Health shall notwithstanding
 section 405(a), prepare and submit, directly to the President for review and
 transmittal to Congress, an annual budget estimate (including an estimate of
 the number and type of personnel needs for the Institute) for their respective
 Institutes, after reasonable opportunity for comment (but without change)
 by the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Director of the National
 Institutes of Health, and the Institute's advisory council.
Subtitle E--References and Conforming Amendments
SEC. 161. REFERENCES.
 Reference in any other Federal law, Executive order, rule, regulation, or
 delegation of authority, or any document of or pertaining to the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration or to the Administrator of
 the Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration shall be deemed
 to refer to the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration
 or to the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration.
SEC. 162. TRANSITION FROM HOMELESSNESS.
 Part C of title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended--
 (1) in section 521 (42 U.S.C. 290cc-21), by striking out `National Institute
 of Mental Health' and inserting in lieu thereof `Center for Mental Health
 Services'; and
 (2) in section 530 (42 U.S.C. 290cc-30), by striking out `through the
 National' and all that follows through `Abuse' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `through the agencies of the Administration'.
SEC. 163. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) TITLE V- Title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended--
 (1) in section 521 (42 U.S.C. 290cc-21), by striking `Director of the National
 Institute of Mental Health' and inserting in lieu thereof `Administrator
 of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration';
 (2) in section 528 (42 U.S.C. 290cc-28)--
 (A) by striking `the National Institute of Mental Health, the National
 Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, and the National Institute on Drug
 Abuse' and inserting in lieu thereof `and the Administrator of the Substance
 Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration' in subsection (a); and
 (B) by striking `National Institute of Mental Health' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration' in subsection (c); and
 (3) in section 530 (42 U.S.C. 290cc-30), by striking `the National Institute
 of Mental Health, the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism,
 and the National Institute on Drug Abuse' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration'.
 (b) GENERAL PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ACT AMENDMENTS- The Public Health Service
 Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in section 227 (42 U.S.C. 236)--
 (A) by striking out `, and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration' in subsection (c)(2);
 (B) by striking out `, the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration,' in subsection (c)(3);
 (C) by striking out `and the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse,
 and Mental Health Administration' in subsection (e); and
 (D) by striking out `and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration' each place such term appears in subsection (e);
 (2) in section 319(a) (42 U.S.C. 247d(a))--
 (A) by striking out `the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental
 Health Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof `the Administrator of
 the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration'; and
 (B) by striking out `Director, Administrator' in the matter following
 paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof `Directors, Administrator';
 (3) in section 402(d)(1) (42 U.S.C. 282(d)(1)), by striking out `two hundred'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `220';
 (4) in section 487(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 288(a)(1))--
 (A) by striking out `and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration' in subparagraph (A)(i); and
 (B) by striking out `or the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration' in the matter immediately following subparagraph (B);
 (5) in section 489(a)(2) (42 U.S.C. 288b(a)(2)), by striking out `and
 institutes under the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration';
 (6) in section 499A(g)(9) (42 U.S.C. 290b(g)(9))--
 (A) by striking out `or the Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse,
 and Mental Health Administration'; and
 (B) by striking out `and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration'; and
 (7) in section 2303 (42 U.S.C. 300cc-2)--
 (A) by striking out `Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and
 Mental Health Administration' in subsection (b), and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration'; and
 (B) by striking out `Administrator of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and
 Mental Health Administration' in subsection (c), and inserting in lieu
 thereof `Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
 Administration'.
 (c) OTHER LAWS-
 (1) Section 4 of the Orphan Drug Amendments of 1985 (42 U.S.C. 236 note)
 is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b),  by striking out `the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental
 Health Administration,';
 (B) in subsection (c)--
 (i) by striking out `the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health
 Administration,' in the matter preceding paragraph (1); and
 (ii) by striking out `the institutes of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental
 Health Administration,' in paragraph (7); and
 (C) in subsection (d)--
 (i) by striking out paragraph (3) and inserting in lieu thereof the following
 new paragraph:
 `(3) Four nonvoting members shall be appointed for the directors of the
 national research institutes of the National Institutes of Health which
 the Secretary determines are involved with rare diseases.'; and
 (ii) by striking out `or an institute of the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental
 Health Administration' in the matter immediately following paragraph (3).
 (2) The Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
 (A) in section 202(b)(1) (42 U.S.C. 3012(b)(1)), by striking out `the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration';
 (B) in section 301(b)(2) (42 U.S.C. 3021(b)(2)), by striking out `the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration'; and
 (C) in section 402(b) (42 U.S.C. 3030bb(b)), by striking out `the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration'.
 (3) The Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986
 is amended--
 (A) in section 111(c) (42 U.S.C. 10821(c)), by striking out `3-year' each
 place that such appears and inserting in lieu thereof `4-year'; and
 (B) in section 116 (42 U.S.C. 10826), by striking out `the Alcohol, Drug
 Abuse, and Mental Health Administration' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration'.
Subtitle F--Employee Assistance Programs
SEC. 171. PROGRAM OF GRANTS UNDER CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION.
 Title V of the Public Health Service Act (as amended by section 114 and
 120) is amended by adding at the end of subpart 2 of part B the following
 new section:
`SEC. 518. EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Prevention Center may make grants
 to public and nonprofit private entities for the purpose of assisting
 business organizations in establishing employee assistance programs to
 provide appropriate services for employees of the organizations regarding
 substance abuse, including education and prevention services and referrals
 for treatment.
 `(b) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- A business organization may not be assisted
 under subsection (a) if the organization has an employee assistance program
 in operation. The organization may receive such assistance only if the
 organization lacks the financial resources for operating such a program.
 `(c) SPECIAL CONSIDERATION FOR CERTAIN SMALL BUSINESSES- In making grants
 under subsection (a), the Director of the Prevention Office shall give
 special consideration to business organizations with 50 or fewer employers.
 `(d) CONSULTATION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- In the case of small businesses
 being assisted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with the
 entities and organizations involved and provide technical assistance and
 training with respect to establishing and operating employee assistance
 programs in accordance with this subtitle. Such assistance shall include
 technical assistance in establishing workplace substance abuse programs.
 `(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.'.
TITLE II--BLOCK GRANTS TO STATES REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE BLOCK GRANT REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH.
 Part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x et
 seq.) is amended--
 (1) by amending the heading for the part to read as follows:
`Part B--Block Grants Regarding Mental Health and Substance Abuse'; and
 (2) by striking subparts 1 and 2 and inserting the following:
`Subpart I--Block Grants for Community Mental Health Services
`SEC. 1911. FORMULA GRANTS TO STATES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For the purpose described in subsection (b), the Secretary,
 acting through the Director of the Center for Mental Health Services, shall
 make an allotment each fiscal year for each State in an amount determined
 in accordance with section 1918. The Secretary shall make a grant to the
 State of the allotment made for the State for the fiscal year if the State
 submits to the Secretary an application in accordance with section 1917.
 `(b) PURPOSE OF GRANTS- A funding agreement for a grant under subsection
 (a) is that, subject to section 1916, the State involved will expend the
 grant only for the purpose of--
 `(1) carrying out the plan submitted under section 1912(a) by the State
 for the fiscal year involved;
 `(2) evaluating programs and services carried out under the plan; and
 `(3) planning, administration, and educational activities related to
 providing services under the plan.
`SEC. 1912. STATE PLAN FOR COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
FOR CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make a grant under section 1911 only if--
 `(1) the State involved submits to the Secretary a plan for providing
 comprehensive community mental health services to adults with a serious
 mental illness and to children with a serious emotional disturbance;
 `(2) the plan meets the criteria specified in subsection (b); and
 `(3) the plan is approved by the Secretary.
 `(b) CRITERIA FOR PLAN- With respect to the provision of comprehensive
 community mental health services to individuals who are either adults with
 a serious mental illness or children with a serious emotional disturbance,
 the criteria referred to in subsection (a) regarding a plan are as follows:
 `(1) The plan provides for the establishment and implementation of an
 organized community-based system of care for such individuals.
 `(2) The plan contains quantitative targets to be achieved in the
 implementation of such system, including the numbers of such individuals
 residing in the areas to be served under such system.
 `(3) The plan describes available services, available treatment options,
 and available resources (including Federal, State and local public services
 and resources, and to the extent practicable, private services and resources)
 to be provided such individuals.
 `(4) The plan describes health and mental health services, rehabilitation
 services, employment services, housing services, educational services, medical
 and dental care, and other support services to be provided to such individuals
 with Federal, State and local public and private resources to enable such
 individuals to function outside of inpatient or residential institutions to
 the maximum extent of their capabilities, including services to be provided
 by local school systems under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
 `(5) The plan describes the financial resources and staffing necessary
 to implement the requirements of such plan, including programs to train
 individuals as providers of mental health services, and the plan emphasizes
 training of providers of emergency health services regarding mental health.
 `(6) The plan provides for activities to reduce the rate of hospitalization
 of such individuals.
 `(7)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the plan requires the provision of
 case management services to each such individual in the State who receives
 substantial amounts of public funds or services.
 `(B) The plan may provide that the requirement of subparagraph (A) will
 not be substantially completed until the end of fiscal year 1993.
 `(8) The plan provides for the establishment and implementation of a program
 of outreach to, and services for, such individuals who are homeless.
 `(9) In the case of children with a serious emotional disturbance, the plan--
 `(A) subject to subparagraph (B), provides for a system of integrated
 social services, educational services, juvenile services, and substance
 abuse services that, together with health and mental health services,
 will be provided in order for such children to receive care appropriate
 for their multiple needs (which system includes services provided under
 the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act);
 `(B) provides that the grant under section 1911 for the fiscal year involved
 will not be expended to provide any service of such system other than
 comprehensive community mental health services; and
 `(C) provides for the establishment of a defined geographic area for the
 provision of the services of such system.
 `(10) The plan describes the manner in which mental health services will
 be provided to individuals residing in rural areas.
 `(11) The plan contains an estimate of the incidence and prevalence in
 the State of serious mental illness among adults and serious emotional
 disturbance among children.
 `(12) The plan contains a description of the manner in which  the State
 intends to expend the grant under section 1911 for the fiscal year involved to
 carry out the provisions of the plan required in paragraphs (1) through (11).
 `(c) DEFINITIONS REGARDING MENTAL ILLNESS AND EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCE;
 METHODS FOR ESTIMATE OF INCIDENCE AND PREVALENCE-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT BY SECRETARY OF DEFINITIONS; DISSEMINATION- For purposes
 of this subpart, the Secretary shall establish definitions for the terms
 `adults with a serious mental illness' and `children with a serious emotional
 disturbance'. The Secretary shall disseminate the definitions to the States.
 `(2) STANDARDIZED METHODS- The Secretary shall establish standardized methods
 for making the estimates required in subsection (b)(11) with respect to a
 State. A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 for the State is
 that the State will utilize such methods in making the estimates.
 `(3) DATE CERTAIN FOR COMPLIANCE BY SECRETARY- Not later than 90 days after
 the date of the enactment of the ADAMHA Reorganization Act, the Secretary
 shall establish the definitions described in paragraph (1), shall begin
 dissemination of the definitions to the States, and shall establish the
 standardized methods described in paragraph (2).
 `(d) REQUIREMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF PLAN-
 `(1) COMPLETE IMPLEMENTATION- Except as provided in paragraph (2), in making
 a grant under section 1911 to a State for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall
 make a determination of the extent to which the State has implemented the
 plan required in subsection (a).  If the Secretary determines that a State
 has not completely implemented the plan, the Secretary shall reduce the
 amount of the allotment under section 1911 for the State for the fiscal
 year involved by an amount equal to 10 percent of the amount determined
 under section 1918 for the State for the fiscal year.
 `(2) SUBSTANTIAL IMPLEMENTATION AND GOOD FAITH EFFORT REGARDING FISCAL
 YEAR 1993-
 `(A) In making a grant under section 1911 to a State for fiscal year 1993,
 the Secretary shall make a determination of the extent to which the State
 has implemented the plan required in subsection (a). If the Secretary
 determines that the State has not substantially implemented the plan,
 the Secretary shall, subject to subparagraph (B), reduce the amount of
 the allotment under section 1911 for the State for such fiscal year by an
 amount equal to 10 percent of the amount determined under section 1918 for
 the State for the fiscal year.
 `(B) In carrying out subparagraph (A), if the Secretary determines that
 the State is making a good faith effort to implement the plan required in
 subsection (a), the Secretary may make a reduction under such subparagraph
 in an amount that is less than the amount specified in such subparagraph,
 except that the reduction may not be made in an amount that is less than
 5 percent of the amount determined under section 1918 for the State for
 fiscal year 1993.
`SEC. 1913. CERTAIN AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) ALLOCATION FOR SYSTEMS OF INTEGRATED SERVICES FOR CHILDREN-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- With respect to children with a serious emotional
 disturbance, a funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 is that--
 `(A) in the case of a grant for fiscal year 1993, the State involved will
 expend not less than 10 percent of the grant to increase (relative to
 fiscal year 1992) funding for the system of integrated services described
 in section 1912(b)(9);
 `(B) in the case of a grant for fiscal year 1994, the State will expend not
 less than 10 percent of the grant to increase (relative to fiscal year 1993)
 funding for such system; and
 `(C) in the case of a grant for any subsequent fiscal year, the State will
 expend for such system not less than an amount equal to the amount expended
 by the State for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) WAIVER-
 `(A) Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may provide to the State
 a waiver of all or part of the requirement established in paragraph (1) if
 the Secretary determines that the State is providing an adequate level of
 comprehensive community mental health services for children with a serious
 emotional distrubance, as indicated by a comparison of the number of such
 children for which such services are sought with the availability in the
 State of the services.
 `(B) The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver under
 subparagraph (A) not later than 120 days after the date on which the request
 is made.
 `(C) Any waiver provided by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall be
 applicable only to the fiscal year involved.
 `(b) PROVIDERS OF SERVICES- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 1911 for a State is that, with respect to the plan submitted under section
 1912(a) for the fiscal year involved--
 `(1) services under the plan will be provided only through appropriate,
 qualified community programs (which may include community mental health
 centers, child mental-health programs, psychosocial rehabilitation
 programs, mental health peer-support programs, and mental-health primary
 consumer-directed programs); and
 `(2) services under the plan will be provided through community mental health
 centers only if the centers meet the criteria specified in subsection (c).
 `(c) CRITERIA FOR MENTAL HEALTH CENTERS- The criteria referred to in
 subsection (b)(2) regarding community mental health centers are as follows:
 `(1) With respect to mental health services, the centers provide services
 as follows:
 `(A) Services principally to individuals residing in a defined geographic
 area (hereafter in this subsection referred to as a `service area').
 `(B) Outpatient services, including specialized outpatient services for
 children, the elderly, individuals with a serious mental illness, and
 residents of the service areas of the centers who have been discharged from
 inpatient treatment at a mental health facility.
 `(C) 24-hour-a-day emergency care services.
 `(D) Day treatment or other partial hospitalization services, or psychosocial
 rehabilitation services.
 `(E) Screening for patients being considered for admission to State mental
 health facilities to determine the appropriateness of such admission.
 `(2) The mental health services of the centers are provided, within the limits
 of the capacities of the centers, to any individual residing or employed in
 the service area of the center regardless of ability to pay for such services.
 `(3) The mental health services of the centers are available and accessible
 promptly, as appropriate and in a manner which preserves human dignity and
 assures continuity and high quality care.
`SEC. 1914. STATE MENTAL HEALTH PLANNING COUNCIL.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 is
 that the State involved will establish and maintain a State mental health
 planning council in accordance with the conditions described in this section.
 `(b) DUTIES- A condition under subsection (a) for a Council is that the
 duties of the Council are--
 `(1) to review plans provided to the Council pursuant to section 1915(a)
 by the State involved and to submit to the State any recommendations of
 the Council for modifications to the plans;
 `(2) to serve as an advocate for adults with a serious mental illness,
 children with a severe emotional disturbance, and other individuals with
 mental illnesses or emotional problems; and
 `(3) to monitor, review, and evaluate, not less than once each year, the
 allocation and adequacy of mental health services within the State.
 `(c) MEMBERSHIP-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A condition under subsection (a) for a Council is that the
 Council be composed of residents of the State, including representatives of--
 `(A) the principal State agencies with respect to--
 `(i) mental health, education, vocational rehabilitation, criminal justice,
 housing, and social services; and
 `(ii) the development of the plan submitted pursuant to title XIX of the
 Social Security Act;
 `(B) public and private entities concerned with the need, planning, operation,
 funding, and use of mental health services and related support services;
 `(C) adults with serious mental illnesses who are receiving (or have received)
 mental health services; and
 `(D) the families of such adults or families of children with emotional
 disturbance.
 `(2) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS- A condition under subsection (a) for a Council
 is that--
 `(A) with respect to the membership of the Council, the ratio of parents
 of children with a serious emotional disturbance to other members of the
 Council is sufficient to provide adequate representation of such children
 in the deliberations of the Council; and
 `(B) not less than 50 percent of the members of the Council are individuals
 who are not State employees or providers of mental health services.
 `(d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `Council' means a
 State mental health planning council.
`SEC. 1915. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) REVIEW OF STATE PLAN BY MENTAL HEALTH PLANNING COUNCIL- The Secretary
 may make a grant under section 1911 to a State only if--
 `(1) the plan submitted under section 1912(a) with respect to the grant
 has been reviewed by the State mental health planning council under section
 1914; and
 `(2) the State submits to the Secretary any recommendations received by
 the State from such council for modifications to the plan (without regard
 to whether the State has made the recommended modifications).
 `(b) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT REGARDING STATE EXPENDITURES FOR MENTAL HEALTH-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 is that
 the State involved will maintain State expenditures for community mental
 health services at a level that is not less than the average level of such
 expenditures maintained by the State for the 2-year period preceding the
 fiscal year for which the State is applying for the grant.
 `(2) WAIVER- The Secretary may, upon the request of a State, waive the
 requirement established in paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that
 extraordinary economic conditions in the State justify the waiver.
 `(3) NONCOMPLIANCE BY STATE-
 `(A) In making a grant under section 1911 to a State for a fiscal year, the
 Secretary shall make a determination of whether, for the previous fiscal
 year, the State maintained material compliance with the agreement made
 under paragraph (1). If the Secretary determines that a State has failed
 to maintain such compliance, the Secretary shall reduce the amount of the
 allotment under section 1911 for the State for the fiscal year for which
 the grant is being made by an amount equal to the amount constituting such
 failure for the previous fiscal year.
 `(B) The Secretary may make a grant under section 1911 for a fiscal year
 only if the State involved submits to the Secretary information sufficient
 for the Secretary to make the determination required in subparagraph (A).
`SEC. 1916. RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PAYMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 is that
 the State involved will not expend the grant--
 `(1) to provide inpatient services;
 `(2) to make cash payments to intended recipients of health services;
 `(3) to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or permanently improve
 (other than minor remodeling) any building or other facility, or purchase
 major medical equipment;
 `(4) to satisfy any requirement for the expenditure of non-Federal funds
 as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds; or
 `(5) to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or
 nonprofit private entity.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- A funding agreement for a grant
 under section 1911 is that the State involved will not expend more than 5
 percent of the grant for administrative expenses with respect to the grant.
`SEC. 1917. APPLICATION FOR GRANT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of section 1911, an application for a grant
 under such section for a fiscal year in accordance with this section if,
 subject to subsection (b)--
 `(1) the State involved submits the application not later than the date
 specified by the Secretary as being the date after which applications for
 such a grant will not be considered (in any case in which the Secretary
 specifies such a date);
 `(2) the application contains each funding agreement that is described in
 this subpart or subpart III for such a grant (other than any such agreement
 that is not applicable to the State);
 `(3) the agreements are made through certification from the chief executive
 officer of the State;
 `(4) with respect to such agreements, the application provides assurances
 of compliance satisfactory to the Secretary;
 `(5) the application contains the plan required in section 1912(a), the
 information required in section 1915(b)(3)(B), and the report required in
 section 1942(a);
 `(6) the application contains recommendations in compliance with section
 1915(a), or if no such recommendations are received by the State, the
 application otherwise demonstrates compliance with such section; and
 `(7) the application (including the plan under section 1912(a)) is otherwise
 in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements,
 assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to
 carry out this subpart.
 `(b) WAIVERS REGARDING CERTAIN TERRITORIES- In the case of any territory of
 the United States whose allotment under section 1911 for the fiscal year
 is the amount specified in section 1918(c)(2)(B), the Secretary may waive
 such provisions of this subpart and subpart III as the Secretary determines
 to be appropriate, other than the provisions of section 1916.
`SEC. 1918. DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF ALLOTMENT.
 `(a) STATES-
 `(1) DETERMINATION UNDER FORMULA- Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary
 shall determine the amount of the allotment required in section 1911 for
 a State for a fiscal year in accordance with the following formula:
                              [ Formula's typesetting may mislead! ]
          A (X / (U))
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF TERM `A'- For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
 `A' means the difference between--
 `(A) the amount appropriated under section 1920(a) for allotments under
 section 1911 for the fiscal year involved; and
 `(B) an amount equal to 1.5 percent of the amount referred to in subparagraph
 (A).
 `(3) DETERMINATION OF TERM `U'- For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `U'
 means the sum of the respective terms `X' determined for the States under
 paragraph (4).
 `(4) DETERMINATION OF TERM `X'- For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
 `X' means the product of--
 `(A) an amount equal to the product of--
 `(i) the term `P', as determined for the State involved under paragraph
 (5); and
 `(ii) the factor determined under paragraph (8) for the State; and
 `(B) the greater of--
 `(i) 0.4; and
 `(ii) an amount equal to an amount determined for the State in accordance
 with the following formula:
                              [ Formula's typesetting may mislead! ]
          1-.35 (R% / (P%))
 `(5) DETERMINATION OF TERM `P'-
 `(A) For purposes of paragraph (4), the term `P' means the sum of--
 `(i) an amount equal to the product of 0.107 and the number of individuals
 in the State who are between 18 and 24 years of age (inclusive);
 `(ii) an amount equal to the product of 0.166 and the number of individuals
 in the State who are between 25 and 44 years of age (inclusive);
 `(iii) an amount equal to the product of 0.099 and the number of individuals
 in the State who are between 25 and 64 years of age (inclusive); and
 `(iv) an amount equal to the product of 0.082 and the number of individuals
 in the State who are 65 years of age or older.
 `(B) With respect to data on population that is necessary for purposes of
 making a determination under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall use the
 most recent data that is available from the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to
 the decennial census and pursuant to reasonable estimates by such Secretary
 of changes occurring in the data in the ensuing period.
 `(6) DETERMINATION OF TERM `R%'-
 `(A) For purposes of paragraph (4), the term `R%', except as provided in
 subparagraph (D), means the percentage constituted by the ratio of the
 amount determined under subparagraph (B) for the State involved to the
 amount determined under subparagraph (C).
 `(B) The amount determined under this subparagraph for the State involved
 is the quotient of--
 `(i) the most recent 3-year arithmetic mean of the total taxable resources
 of the State, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury; divided by
 `(ii) the factor determined under paragraph (8) for the State.
 `(C) The amount determined under this subparagraph is the sum of the
 respective amounts determined for the States under subparagraph (B)
 (including the District of Columbia).
 `(D)(i) In the case of the District of Columbia, for purposes of paragraph
 (4), the term `R%' means the percentage constituted by the ratio of
 the amount determined under clause (ii) for such District to the amount
 determined under clause (iii).
 `(ii) The amount determined under this clause for the District of Columbia
 is the quotient of--
 `(I) the most recent 3-year arithmetic mean of total personal income in
 such District, as determined by the Secretary of Commerce; divided by
 `(II) the factor determined under paragraph (8) for the District.
 `(iii) The amount determined under this clause is the sum of the respective
 amounts determined for the States (including the District of Columbia) by
 making, for each State, the same determination as is described in clause
 (ii) for the District of Columbia.
 `(7) DETERMINATION OF TERM `P%'- For purposes of paragraph (4), the term
 `P%' means the percentage constituted by the ratio of the term `P' determined
 under paragraph (5) for the State involved to the sum of the respective terms
 `P' determined for the States.
 `(8) DETERMINATION OF CERTAIN FACTOR-
 `(A) The factor determined under this paragraph for the State involved is
 a factor whose purpose is to adjust the amount determined under clause (i)
 of paragraph (4)(A), and the amounts determined under each of subparagraphs
 (B)(i) and (D)(ii)(I) of paragraph (6), to reflect the differences that exist
 between the State and other States in the costs of providing comprehensive
 community mental health services to adults with a serious mental illness
 and to children with a serious emotional disturbance.
 `(B) Subject to subparagraph (C), the factor determined under this paragraph
 and in effect for the fiscal year involved shall be determined according to
 the methodology described in the report entitled `Adjusting the Alcohol,
 Drug Abuse and Mental Health Services Block Grant Allocations for Poverty
 Populations and Cost of Service', dated March 30, 1990, and prepared by
 Health Economics Research, a corporation, pursuant to a contract with the
 National Institute on Drug Abuse.
 `(C) The factor determined under this paragraph for the State involved may
 not for any fiscal year be greater than 1.1 or less than 0.9.
 `(D)(i) Not later than October 1, 1992, the Secretary, after consultation
 with the Comptroller General, shall in accordance with this section make
 a determination for each State of the factor that is to be in effect for
 the State under this paragraph. The factor so determined shall remain in
 effect through fiscal year 1994, and shall be recalculated every third
 fiscal year thereafter.
 `(ii) After consultation with the Comptroller General, the Secretary
 shall, through publication in the Federal Register, periodically make
 such refinements in the methodology referred to in subparagraph (B) as are
 consistent with the purpose described in subparagraph (A).
 `(b) MINIMUM ALLOTMENTS FOR STATES- For each of the fiscal years 1993 and
 1994, the amount of the allotment required in section 1911 for a State for
 the fiscal year involved shall be the greater of--
 `(1) the amount determined under subsection (a) for the State for the fiscal
 year; and
 `(2) an amount equal to 20.6 percent of the amount received by the State
 from allotments made pursuant to this part for fiscal year 1992 (including
 reallotments under section 205(a) of the ADAMHA Reorganization Act).
 `(c) TERRITORIES-
 `(1) DETERMINATION UNDER FORMULA- Subject to paragraphs (2) and (4), the
 amount of an allotment under section 1911 for a territory of the United
 States for a fiscal year shall be the product of--
 `(A) an amount equal to the amounts reserved under paragraph (3) for the
 fiscal year; and
 `(B) a percentage equal to the quotient of--
 `(i) the civilian population of the territory, as indicated by the most
 recently available data; divided by
 `(ii) the aggregate civilian population of the territories of the United
 States, as indicated by such data.
 `(2) MINIMUM ALLOTMENT FOR TERRITORIES- The amount of an allotment under
 section 1911 for a territory of the United States for a fiscal year shall
 be the greater of--
 `(A) the amount determined under paragraph (1) for the territory for the
 fiscal year; and
 `(B) $50,000.
 `(3) RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS- The Secretary shall each fiscal year reserve for
 the territories of the United States 1.5 percent of the amounts appropriated
 under section 1920(a) for allotments under section 1911 for the fiscal year.
 `(4) AVAILABILITY OF DATA ON POPULATION- With respect to data on the
 civilian population of the territories of the United States, if the Secretary
 determines for a fiscal year that recent such data for purposes of paragraph
 (1)(B) do not exist regarding a territory, the Secretary shall for such
 purposes estimate the civilian population of the territory by modifying
 the data on the territory to reflect the average extent of change occurring
 during the ensuing period in the population of all territories with respect
 to which recent such data do exist.
 `(5) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS- For purposes of subsection (a),
 the term `State' does not include the territories of the United States.
`SEC. 1919. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this subpart:
 `(1) The terms `adults with a serious mental illness' and `children with
 a serious emotional disturbance' have the meanings given such terms under
 section 1912(c)(1).
 `(2) The term `funding agreement', with respect to a grant under section
 1911 to a State, means that the Secretary may make such a grant only if
 the State makes the agreement involved.
`SEC. 1920. FUNDING.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, and subpart III and section 505 with respect to mental health,
 there are authorized to be appropriated $450,000,000 for fiscal year 1993,
 and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(b) ALLOCATIONS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, DATA COLLECTION, AND PROGRAM
 EVALUATION-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For the purpose of carrying out section 1948(a) with
 respect to mental health and the purposes specified in paragraphs (2) and
 (3), the Secretary shall obligate 5 percent of the amounts appropriated
 under subsection (a) for a fiscal year.
 `(2) DATA COLLECTION- The purpose specified in this paragraph is carrying
 out section 505 with respect to mental health.
 `(3) PROGRAM EVALUATION- The purpose specified in this paragraph is the
 conduct of evaluations of prevention and treatment programs and services with
 respect to mental health to determine methods for improving the availability
 and quality of such programs and services.'.
SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE BLOCK GRANT REGARDING SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
 Part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section
 201 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`Subpart II--Block Grants for Prevention and Treatment of Substance Abuse
`SEC. 1921. FORMULA GRANTS TO STATES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For the purpose described in subsection (b), the
 Secretary, acting through the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, shall
 make an allotment each fiscal year for each State in an amount determined
 in accordance with section 1933. The Secretary shall make a grant to the
 State of the allotment made for the State for the fiscal year if the State
 submits to the Secretary an application in accordance with section 1932.
 `(b) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES- A funding agreement for a grant under subsection
 (a) is that, subject to section 1931, the State involved will expend
 the grant only for the purpose of planning, carrying out, and evaluating
 activities to prevent and treat substance abuse and for related activities
 authorized in section 1924.
`SEC. 1922. CERTAIN ALLOCATIONS.
 `(a) ALLOCATIONS REGARDING ALCOHOL AND OTHER DRUGS- A funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that, in expending the grant, the State
 involved will expend--
 `(1) not less than 35 percent for prevention and treatment activities
 regarding alcohol; and
 `(2) not less than 35 percent for prevention and treatment activities
 regarding other drugs.
 `(b) ALLOCATION REGARDING PRIMARY PREVENTION PROGRAMS- A funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that, in expending the grant, the State
 involved--
 `(1) will expend not less than 20 percent for programs for individuals who
 do not require treatment for substance abuse, which programs--
 `(A) educate and counsel the individuals on such abuse; and
 `(B) provide for activities to reduce the risk of such abuse by the
 individuals;
 `(2) will, in carrying out paragraph (1)--
 `(A) give priority to programs for populations that are at risk of developing
 a pattern of such abuse; and
 `(B) ensure that programs receiving priority under subparagraph (A) develop
 community-based strategies for the prevention of such abuse, including
 strategies to discourage the use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products
 by individuals to whom it is unlawful to sell or distribute such beverages
 or products.
 `(c) ALLOCATIONS REGARDING WOMEN-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), a funding agreement for a grant
 under section 1921 for a fiscal year is that--
 `(A) in the case of a grant for fiscal year 1993, the State involved will
 expend not less than 5 percent of the grant to increase (relative to fiscal
 year 1992) the availability of treatment services designed for pregnant women
 and women with dependent children (either by establishing new programs or
 expanding the capacity of existing programs);
 `(B) in the case of a grant for fiscal year 1994, the State will expend
 not less than 5 percent of the grant to so increase (relative to fiscal
 year 1993) the availability of such services for such women; and
 `(C) in the case of a grant for any subsequent fiscal year, the State will
 expend for such services for such women not less than an amount equal to
 the amount expended by the State for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) WAIVER-
 `(A) Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may provide to the State
 a waiver of all or part of the requirement established in paragraph (1)
 if the Secretary determines that the State is providing an adequate level
 of treatments services for women described in such paragraph, as indicated
 by a comparison of the number of such women seeking the services with the
 availability in the State of the services.
 `(B) The Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver under
 subparagraph (A) not later than 120 days after the date on which the request
 is made.
 `(C) Any waiver provided by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall be
 applicable only to the fiscal year involved.
 `(3) CHILDCARE AND PRENATAL CARE- A funding agreement for a grant under
 section 1921 for a State is that each entity providing treatment services
 with amounts reserved under paragraph (1) by the State will, directly
 or through arrangements with other public or nonprofit private entities,
 make available prenatal care to women receiving such services and, while
 the women are receiving the services, childcare.
`SEC. 1923. INTRAVENOUS SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
 `(a) CAPACITY OF TREATMENT PROGRAMS-
 `(1) NOTIFICATION OF REACHING CAPACITY- A funding agreement for a grant under
 section 1921 is that the State involved will, in the case of programs of
 treatment for intravenous drug abuse, require that any such program receiving
 amounts from the grant, upon reaching 90 percent of its capacity to admit
 individuals to the program, provide to the State a notification of such fact.
 `(2) PROVISION OF TREATMENT- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 1921 is that the State involved will, with respect to notifications under
 paragraph (1), ensure that each individual who requests and is in need
 of treatment for intravenous drug abuse is admitted to a program of such
 treatment not later than--
 `(A) 14 days after making the request for admission to such a program; or
 `(B) 120 days after the date of such request, if no such program has the
 capacity to admit the individual on the date of such request and if interim
 services are made available to the individual not later than 48 hours after
 such request.
 `(b) OUTREACH REGARDING INTRAVENOUS SUBSTANCE ABUSE- A funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that the State involved, in providing
 amounts from the grant to any entity for treatment services for intravenous
 drug abuse, will require the entity to carry out activities to encourage
 individuals in need of such treatment to undergo treatment.
`SEC. 1924. REQUIREMENTS REGARDING TUBERCULOSIS AND HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY
VIRUS.
 `(a) TUBERCULOSIS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 is that
 the State involved will require that any entity receiving amounts from the
 grant for operating a program of treatment for substance abuse--
 `(A) will, directly or through arrangements with other public or nonprofit
 private entities, routinely make available tuberculosis services to each
 individual receiving treatment for such abuse; and
 `(B) in the case of an individual in need of such treatment who is denied
 admission to the program on the basis of the lack of the capacity of the
 program to admit the individual, will refer the individual to another
 provider of tuberculosis services.
 `(2) TUBERCULOSIS SERVICES- For purposes of paragraph (1), the term
 `tuberculosis services', with respect to an individual, means--
 `(A) counseling the individual with respect to tuberculosis;
 `(B) testing to determine whether the individual has contracted such disease
 and testing to determine the form of treatment for the disease that is
 appropriate for the individual; and
 `(C) providing such treatment to the individual.
 `(b) HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN STATES- In the case of a State described in
 paragraph (2), a funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 is that--
 `(A) with respect to individuals undergoing treatment for substance abuse,
 the State will, subject to paragraph (3), carry out 1 or more projects
 to make available to the individuals early intervention services for HIV
 disease at the sites at which the individuals are undergoing such treatment;
 `(B) for the purpose of providing such early intervention services through
 such projects, the State will make available from the grant the percentage
 that is applicable for the State under paragraph (4); and
 `(C) the State will, subject to paragraph (5), carry out such projects only
 in geographic areas of the State that have the greatest need for the projects.
 `(2) DESIGNATED STATES- For purposes of this subsection, a State described in
 this paragraph is any State whose rate of cases of acquired immune deficiency
 syndrome is 10 or more such cases per 100,000 individuals (as indicated by
 the number of such cases reported to and confirmed by the Director of the
 Centers for Disease Control for the most recent calendar year for which
 such data are available).
 `(3) USE OF EXISTING PROGRAMS REGARDING SUBSTANCE ABUSE- With respect to
 programs that provide treatment services for substance abuse, a funding
 agreement for a grant under section 1921 for a designated State is that
 each such program participating in a project under paragraph (1) will be a
 program that began operation prior to the fiscal year for which the State
 is applying to receive the grant. A program that so began operation may
 participate in a project under paragraph (1) without regard to whether the
 program has been providing early intervention services for HIV disease.
 `(4) APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE REGARDING EXPENDITURES FOR SERVICES-
 `(A)(i) For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), the percentage that is applicable
 under this paragraph for a designated State is, subject to subparagraph
 (B), the percentage by which the amount of the grant under section 1921
 for the State for the fiscal year involved is an increase over the amount
 specified in clause (ii).
 `(ii) The amount specified in this clause is the amount that was reserved by
 the designated State involved from the allotment of the State under section
 1912A for fiscal year 1991 in compliance with section 1916(c)(6)(A)(ii)
 (as such sections were in effect for such fiscal year).
 `(B) If the percentage determined under subparagraph (A) for a designated
 State for a fiscal year is less than 2 percent (including a negative
 percentage, in the case of a State for which there is no increase for purposes
 of such subparagraph), the percentage applicable under this paragraph for
 the State is 2 percent. If the percentage so determined is 2 percent or more,
 the percentage applicable under this paragraph for the State is the percentage
 determined under subparagraph (A), subject to not exceeding 5 percent.
 `(5) REQUIREMENT REGARDING RURAL AREAS-
 `(A) A funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 for a designated
 State is that, if the State will carry out 2 or more projects under paragraph
 (1),  the State will carry out 1 such project in a rural area of the State,
 subject to subparagraph (B).
 `(B) The Secretary shall waive the requirement established in subparagraph
 (A) if the State involved certifies to the Secretary that--
 `(i) there is insufficient demand in the State to carry out a project under
 paragraph (1) in any rural area of the State; or
 `(ii) there are no rural areas in the State.
 `(6) MANNER OF PROVIDING SERVICES- With respect to the provision of early
 intervention services for HIV disease to an individual, a funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 for a designated State is that--
 `(A) such services will be undertaken voluntarily by, and with the informed
 consent of, the individual; and
 `(B) undergoing such services will not be required as a condition of
 receiving treatment services for substance abuse or any other services.
 `(7) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection:
 `(A) The term `designated State' means a State described in paragraph (2).
 `(B) The term `early intervention services', with respect to HIV disease,
 means--
 `(i) appropriate pretest counseling;
 `(ii) testing individuals with respect to such disease, including tests
 to confirm the presence of the disease, tests to diagnose the extent of
 the deficiency in the immune system, and tests to provide information on
 appropriate therapeutic measures for preventing and treating the deterioration
 of the immune system and for preventing and treating conditions arising
 from the disease;
 `(iii) appropriate post-test counseling; and
 `(iv) providing the therapeutic measures described in clause (ii).
 `(C) The term `HIV disease' means infection with the etiologic agent for
 acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
 `(c) EXPENDITURE OF GRANT FOR COMPLIANCE WITH AGREEMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A grant under section 1921 may be expended for purposes of
 compliance with the agreements required in this section, subject to paragraph
 (2).
 `(2) LIMITATION- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 for a
 State is that the grant will not be expended to make payment for any service
 provided for purposes of compliance with this section to the extent that
 payment has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made, with
 respect to such service--
 `(A) under any State compensation program, under any insurance policy, or
 under any Federal or State health benefits program (including the program
 established in title XVIII of the Social Security Act and the program
 established in title XIX of such Act); or
 `(B) by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis.
 `(d) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- With respect to services provided for by a
 State for purposes of compliance with this section, a funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that the State will maintain expenditures
 of non-Federal amounts for such services at a level that is not less than
 average level of such expenditures maintained by the State for 2-year period
 preceding the first fiscal year for which the State receives such a grant.
 `(e) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISION- Section 1931 applies to this section
 (and to each other provision of this subpart).
`SEC. 1925. GROUP HOMES FOR RECOVERING SUBSTANCE ABUSERS.
 `(a) STATE REVOLVING FUNDS FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF HOMES- For fiscal year 1993
 and subsequent fiscal years, the Secretary may make a grant under section
 1921 only if the State involved has established, and is providing for the
 ongoing operation of, a revolving fund as follows:
 `(1) The purpose of the fund is to make loans for the costs of establishing
 programs for the provision of housing in which individuals recovering from
 alcohol or drug abuse may reside in groups of not less than 6 individuals. The
 fund is established directly by the State or through the provision of a
 grant or contract to a nonprofit private entity.
 `(2) The programs are carried out in accordance with guidelines issued
 under subsection (b).
 `(3) Not less than $100,000 is available for the fund.
 `(4) Loans made from the revolving fund do not exceed $4,000 and each such
 loan is repaid to the revolving fund by the residents of the housing involved
 not later than 2 years after the date on which the loan is made.
 `(5) Each such loan is repaid by such residents through monthly installments,
 and a reasonable penalty is assessed for each failure to pay such periodic
 installments by the date specified in the loan agreement involved.
 `(6) Such loans are made only to nonprofit private entities agreeing that,
 in the operation of the program established pursuant to the loan--
 `(A) the use of alcohol or any illegal drug in the housing provided by the
 program will be prohibited;
 `(B) any resident of the housing who violates such prohibition will be
 expelled from the housing;
 `(C) the costs of the housing, including fees for rent and utilities,
 will be paid by the residents of the housing; and
 `(D) the residents of the housing will, through a majority vote of the
 residents, otherwise establish policies governing residence in the housing,
 including the manner in which applications for residence in the housing
 are approved.
 `(b) ISSUANCE BY SECRETARY OF GUIDELINES- The Secretary shall ensure that
 there are in effect guidelines under this subpart for the operation of
 programs described in subsection (a).
 `(c) APPLICABILITY TO TERRITORIES- The requirements established in subsection
 (a) shall not apply to any territory of the United States other than the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
`SEC. 1926. STATE LAW REGARDING SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO INDIVIDUALS
UNDER AGE OF 18.
 `(a) RELEVANT LAW-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), for fiscal year 1994 and subsequent
 fiscal years, the Secretary may make a grant under section 1921 only if
 the State involved has in effect a law providing that it is unlawful for
 any manufacturer, retailer, or distributor of tobacco products to sell or
 distribute any such product to any individual under the age of 18.
 `(2) DELAYED APPLICABILITY FOR CERTAIN STATES- In the case of a State
 whose legislature does not convene a regular session in fiscal year 1993,
 and in the case of a State whose legislature does not convene a regular
 session in fiscal year 1994, the requirement described in paragraph (1)
 as a condition of a receipt of a grant under section 1921 shall apply only
 for fiscal year 1995 and subsequent fiscal years.
 `(b) ENFORCEMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- For the first applicable fiscal year and for subsequent
 fiscal years, a funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 is that
 the State involved will enforce the law described in subsection (a) in
 a manner that can reasonably be expected to reduce the extent to which
 tobacco products are available to individuals under the age of 18.
 `(2) ACTIVITIES AND REPORTS REGARDING ENFORCEMENT- For the first applicable
 fiscal year and for subsequent fiscal years, a funding agreement for a
 grant under section 1921 is that the State involved will--
 `(A) annually conduct random, unannounced inspections to ensure compliance
 with the law described in subsection (a); and
 `(B) annually submit to the Secretary a report describing--
 `(i) the activities carried out by the State to enforce such law during
 the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year for which the State is seeking
 the grant;
 `(ii) the extent of success the State has achieved in reducing the
 availability of tobacco products to individuals under the age of 18; and
 `(iii) the strategies to be utilized by the State for enforcing such law
 during the fiscal year for which the grant is sought.
 `(c) NONCOMPLIANCE OF STATE- Before making a grant under section 1921 to a
 State for the first applicable fiscal year or any subsequent fiscal year,
 the Secretary shall make a determination of whether the State has maintained
 compliance with subsections (a) and (b). If, after notice to the State and
 an opportunity for a hearing, the Secretary determines that the State is
 not in compliance with such subsections, the Secretary shall reduce the
 amount of the allotment under such section for the State for the fiscal
 year involved by an amount equal to--
 `(1) in the case of the first applicable fiscal year, 10 percent of the
 amount determined under section 1933 for the State for the fiscal year;
 `(2) in the case of the first fiscal year following such applicable fiscal
 year, 20 percent of the amount determined under section 1933 for the State
 for the fiscal year;
 `(3) in the case of the second such fiscal year, 30 percent of the amount
 determined under section 1933 for the State for the fiscal year; and
 `(4) in the case of the third such fiscal year or any subsequent fiscal
 year, 40 percent of the amount determined under section 1933 for the State
 for the fiscal year.
 `(d) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `first applicable
 fiscal year' means--
 `(1) fiscal year 1995, in the case of any State described in subsection
 (a)(2); and
 `(2) fiscal year 1994, in the case of any other State.
`SEC. 1927. TREATMENT SERVICES FOR PREGNANT WOMEN.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1921 is that
 the State involved--
 `(1) will ensure that each pregnant woman in the State who seeks or is
 referred for and would benefit from such services is given preference in
 admissions to treatment facilities receiving funds pursuant to the grant; and
 `(2) will, in carrying out paragraph (1), publicize the availability to
 such women of services from the facilities and the fact that the women
 receive such preference.
 `(b) REFERRALS REGARDING STATES- A funding agreement for a grant under
 section 1921 is that, in carrying out subsection (a)(1)--
 `(1) the State involved will require that, in the event that a treatment
 facility has insufficient capacity to provide treatment services to any
 woman described in such subsection who seeks the services from the facility,
 the facility refer the woman to the State; and
 `(2) the State, in the case of each woman for whom a referral under paragraph
 (1) is made to the State--
 `(A) will refer the woman to a treatment facility that has the capacity to
 provide treatment services to the woman; or
 `(B) will, if no treatment facility has the capacity to admit the woman,
 make available interim services available to the woman not later than 48
 hours after the women seeks the treatment services.
`SEC. 1928. ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) IMPROVEMENT OF PROCESS FOR APPROPRIATE REFERRALS FOR TREATMENT- With
 respect to individuals seeking treatment services, a funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that the State involved will improve
 (relative to fiscal year 1992) the process in the State for referring the
 individuals to treatment facilities that can provide to the individuals
 the treatment modality that is most appropriate for the individuals.
 `(b) CONTINUING EDUCATION- With respect to any facility for treatment
 services or prevention actitivities that is receiving amounts from a grant
 under section 1921, a funding agreement for a State for a grant under
 such section is that continuing education in such services or activities
 (or both, as the case may be) will be made available to employees of the
 facility who provide the services or activities.
 `(c) COORDINATION OF VARIOUS ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES- A funding agreement
 for a grant under section 1921 is that the State involved will coordinate
 prevention and treatment activities with the provision of other appropriate
 services (including health, social, correctional and criminal justice,
 educational, vocational rehabilitation, and employment services).
 `(d) WAIVER OF REQUIREMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may provide to a
 State a waiver of any or all of the requirements established in this section
 if the Secretary determines that, with respect to services for the prevention
 and treatment of substance abuse, the requirement involved is unnecessary
 for maintaining quality in the provision of such services in the State.
 `(2) DATE CERTAIN FOR ACTING UPON REQUEST- The Secretary shall approve or
 deny a request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days
 after the date on which the request is made.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY OF WAIVER- Any waiver provided by the Secretary under
 paragraph (1) shall be applicable only to the fiscal year involved.
`SEC. 1929. SUBMISSION TO SECRETARY OF STATEWIDE ASSESSMENT OF NEEDS.
 `The Secretary may make a grant under section 1921 only if the State submits
 to the Secretary an assessment of the need in the State for authorized
 activities (which assessment is conducted in accordance with criteria
 issued by the Secretary), both by locality and by the State in general,
 which assessment includes a description of--
 `(1) the incidence and prevalence in the State of drug abuse and the
 incidence and prevalence in the State of alcohol abuse and alcoholism;
 `(2) current prevention and treatment activities in the State;
 `(3) the need of the State for technical assistance to carry out such
 activities;
 `(4) efforts by the State to improve such activities; and
 `(5) the extent to which the availability of such activities is insufficient
 to meet the need for the activities, the interim services to be made available
 under sections 1923(a) and 1927(b), and the manner in which such services
 are to be so available.
`SEC. 1930. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT REGARDING STATE EXPENDITURES.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- With respect to the principal agency of a State for
 carrying out authorized activities, a funding agreement for a grant under
 section 1921 for the State for a fiscal year is that such agency will for
 such year maintain aggregate State expenditures for authorized activities
 at a level that is not less than the average level of such expenditures
 maintained by the State for the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year
 for which the State is applying for the grant.
 `(b) WAIVER-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Upon the request of a State, the Secretary may waive all
 or part of the requirement established in subsection (a) if the Secretary
 determines that extraordinary economic conditions in the State justify
 the waiver.
 `(2) DATE CERTAIN FOR ACTING UPON REQUEST- The Secretary shall approve or
 deny a request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days
 after the date on which the request is made.
 `(3) APPLICABILITY OF WAIVER- Any waiver provided by the Secretary under
 paragraph (1) shall be applicable only to the fiscal year involved.
 `(c) NONCOMPLIANCE BY STATE-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In making a grant under section 1921 to a State for a fiscal
 year, the Secretary shall make a determination of whether, for the previous
 fiscal year, the State maintained material compliance with any agreement
 made under subsection (a).  If the Secretary determines that a State has
 failed to maintain such compliance, the Secretary shall reduce the amount
 of the allotment under section 1921 for the State for the fiscal year for
 which the grant is being made by an amount equal to the amount constituting
 such failure for the previous fiscal year.
 `(2) SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION TO SECRETARY- The Secretary may make a grant
 under section 1921 for a fiscal year only if the State involved submits
 to the Secretary information sufficient for the Secretary to make the
 determination required in paragraph (1).
`SEC. 1931. RESTRICTIONS ON EXPENDITURE OF GRANT.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 1921 is that the State involved will not expend the grant--
 `(A) to provide inpatient hospital services, except as provided in subsection
 (b);
 `(B) to make cash payments to intended recipients of health services;
 `(C) to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or permanently improve
 (other than minor remodeling) any building or other facility, or purchase
 major medical equipment;
 `(D) to satisfy any requirement for the expenditure of non-Federal funds
 as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds;
 `(E) to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or
 nonprofit private entity; or
 `(F) to carry out any program prohibited by section 256(b) of the Health
 Omnibus Programs Extension of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 300ee-5).
 `(2) LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- A funding agreement for a grant
 under section 1921 is that the State involved will not expend more than 5
 percent of the grant to pay the costs of administering the grant.
 `(3) LIMITATION REGARDING PENAL AND CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTIONS- A funding
 agreement for a State for a grant under section 1921 is that, in expending
 the grant for the purpose of providing treatment services in penal or
 correctional institutions of the State, the State will not expend more
 than an amount equal to the amount expended for such purpose by the State
 from the grant made under section 1912A to the State for fiscal year 1991
 (as section 1912A was in effect for such fiscal year).
 `(b) EXCEPTION REGARDING INPATIENT HOSPITAL SERVICES-
 `(1) MEDICAL NECESSITY AS PRECONDITION- With respect to compliance with the
 agreement made under subsection (a), a State may expend a grant under section
 1921 to provide inpatient hospital services as treatment for substance abuse
 only if it has been determined, in accordance with guidelines issued by the
 Secretary, that such treatment is a medical necessity for the individual
 involved, and that the individual cannot be effectively treated in a
 community-based, nonhospital, residential program of treatment.
 `(2) RATE OF PAYMENT- In the case of an individual for whom a grant under
 section 1921 is expended to provide inpatient hospital services described
 in paragraph (1), a funding agreement for the grant for the State involved
 is that the daily rate of payment provided to the hospital for providing
 the services to the individual will not exceed the comparable daily rate
 provided for community-based, nonhospital, residential programs of treatment
 for substance abuse.
 `(c) WAIVER REGARDING CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may provide to any State a waiver of
 the restriction established in subsection (a)(1)(C) for the purpose
 of authorizing the State to expend a grant under section 1921 for the
 construction of a new facility or rehabilitation of an existing facility,
 but not for land acquisition.
 `(2) STANDARD REGARDING NEED FOR WAIVER- The Secretary may approve a
 waiver under paragraph (1) only if the State demonstrates to the Secretary
 that adequate treatment cannot be provided through the use of existing
 facilities and that alternative facilities in existing suitable buildings
 are not available.
 `(3) AMOUNT- In granting a waiver under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
 allow the use of a specified amount of funds to construct or rehabilitate a
 specified number of beds for residential treatment and a specified number
 of slots for outpatient treatment, based on reasonable estimates by the
 State of the costs of construction or rehabilitation. In considering waiver
 applications, the Secretary shall ensure that the State has carefully
 designed a program that will minimize the costs of additional beds.
 `(4) MATCHING FUNDS- The Secretary may grant a waiver under paragraph
 (1) only if the State agrees, with respect to the costs to be incurred
 by the State in carrying out the purpose of the waiver, to make available
 non-Federal contributions in cash toward such costs in an amount equal to
 not less than $1 for each $1 of Federal funds provided under section 1921.
 `(5) DATE CERTAIN FOR ACTING UPON REQUEST- The Secretary shall act upon a
 request for a waiver under paragraph (1) not later than 120 days after the
 date on which the request is made.
`SEC. 1932. APPLICATION FOR GRANT; APPROVAL OF STATE PLAN.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- For purposes of section 1921, an application for a grant
 under such section for a fiscal year is in accordance with this section if,
 subject to subsections (c) and (d)(2)--
 `(1) the State involved submits the application not later than the date
 specified by the Secretary;
 `(2) the application contains each funding agreement that is described in
 this subpart or subpart III for such a grant (other than any such agreement
 that is not applicable to the State);
 `(3) the agreements are made through certification from the chief executive
 officer of the State;
 `(4) with respect to such agreements, the application provides assurances
 of compliance satisfactory to the Secretary;
 `(5) the application contains the information required in section 1929,
 the information required in section 1930(c)(2), and the report required in
 section 1942(a);
 `(6)(A) the application contains a plan in accordance with subsection (b)
 and the plan is approved by the Secretary; and
 `(B) the State provides assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that the
 State complied with the provisions of the plan under subparagraph (A)
 that was approved by the Secretary for the most recent fiscal year for
 which the State received a grant under section 1921; and
 `(7) the application (including the plan under paragraph (6)) is otherwise in
 such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances,
 and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out
 this subpart.
 `(b) STATE PLAN-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A plan submitted by a State under subsection (a)(6) is in
 accordance with this subsection if the plan contains detailed provisions
 for complying with each funding agreement for a grant under section 1921
 that is applicable to the State, including a description of the manner in
 which the State intends to expend the grant.
 `(2) AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY REGARDING MODIFICATIONS- As a condition of making
 a grant under section 1921 to a State for a fiscal year, the Secretary
 may require that the State modify any provision of the plan submitted by
 the State under subsection (a)(6) (including provisions on priorities in
 carrying out authorized activities). If the Secretary approves the plan
 and makes the grant to the State for the fiscal year, the Secretary may
 not during such year require the State to modify the plan.
 `(3) AUTHORITY OF CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION- With respect
 to plans submitted by the States under subsection (a)(6), the Secretary,
 acting through the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention,
 shall review and approve or disapprove the provisions of the plans that
 relate to prevention activities.
 `(c) WAIVERS REGARDING CERTAIN TERRITORIES- In the case of any territory of
 the United States whose allotment under section 1921 for the fiscal year
 is the amount specified in section 1933(c)(2)(B), the Secretary may waive
 such provisions of this subpart and subpart III as the Secretary determines
 to be appropriate, other than the provisions of section 1931.
 `(d) ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS; PRECONDITION TO MAKING GRANTS-
 `(1) REGULATIONS- Not later than August 25, 1992, the Secretary, acting as
 appropriate through the Director of the Center for Treatment Improvement
 or the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, shall by
 regulation establish standards specifying the circumstances in which the
 Secretary will consider an application for a grant under section 1921 to
 be in accordance with this section.
 `(2) ISSUANCE AS PRECONDITION TO MAKING GRANTS- The Secretary may not make
 payments under any grant under section 1921 for fiscal year 1993 on or after
 January 1, 1993, unless the Secretary has issued standards under paragraph
 (1).
`SEC. 1933. DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF ALLOTMENT.
 `(a) STATES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary shall determine
 the amount of the allotment required in section 1921 for a State for a
 fiscal year as follows:
 `(A) The formula established in paragraph (1) of section 1918(a) shall apply
 to this subsection to the same extent and in the same manner as the formula
 applies for purposes of section 1918(a), except that, in the application of
 such formula for purposes of this subsection, the modifications described
 in subparagraph (B) shall apply.
 `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the modifications described in this
 subparagraph are as follows:
 `(i) The amount specified in paragraph (2)(A) of section 1918(a) is deemed
 to be the amount appropriated under section 1935(a) for allotments under
 section 1921 for the fiscal year involved.
 `(ii) The term `P' is deemed to have the meaning given in paragraph (2)
 of this subsection. Section 1918(a)(5)(B) applies to the data used in
 determining such term for the States.
 `(iii) The factor determined under paragraph (8) of section 1918(a) is deemed
 to have the purpose of reflecting the differences that exist between the
 State involved and other States in the costs of providing authorized services.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF TERM `P'- For purposes of this subsection, the term
 `P' means the percentage that is the arithmetic mean of the percentage
 determined under subparagraph (A) and the percentage determined under
 subparagraph (B), as follows:
 `(A) The percentage constituted by the ratio of--
 `(i) an amount equal to the sum of the total number of individuals who reside
 in the State involved and are between 18 and 24 years of age (inclusive)
 and the number of individuals in the State who reside in urbanized areas
 of the State and are between such years of age; to
 `(ii) an amount equal to the total of the respective sums determined for
 the States under clause (i).
 `(B) The percentage constituted by the ratio of--
 `(i) the total number of individuals in the State who are between 25 and
 64 years of age (inclusive); to
 `(ii) an amount equal to the sum of the respective amounts determined for
 the States under clause (i).
 `(b) MINIMUM ALLOTMENTS FOR STATES- For each of the fiscal years 1993 and
 1994, the amount of the allotment required in section 1921 for a State for
 the fiscal year involved shall be the greater of--
 `(1) the amount determined under subsection (a) for the State for the fiscal
 year; and
 `(2) an amount equal to 79.4 percent of the amount received by the State
 from allotments made pursuant to this part for fiscal year 1992 (including
 reallotments under section 205(a) of the ADAMHA Reorganization Act).
 `(c) TERRITORIES-
 `(1) DETERMINATION UNDER FORMULA- Subject to paragraphs (2) and (4), the
 amount of an allotment under section 1921 for a territory of the United
 States for a fiscal year shall be the product of--
 `(A) an amount equal to the amounts reserved under paragraph (3) for the
 fiscal year; and
 `(B) a percentage equal to the quotient of--
 `(i) the civilian population of the territory, as indicated by the most
 recently available data; divided by
 `(ii) the aggregate civilian population of the territories of the United
 States, as indicated by such data.
 `(2) MINIMUM ALLOTMENT FOR TERRITORIES- The amount of an allotment under
 section 1921 for a territory of the United States for a fiscal year shall
 be the greater of--
 `(A) the amount determined under paragraph (1) for the territory for the
 fiscal year; and
 `(B) $50,000.
 `(3) RESERVATION OF AMOUNTS- The Secretary shall each fiscal year reserve for
 the territories of the United States 1.5 percent of the amounts appropriated
 under section 1935(a) for allotments under section 1921 for the fiscal year.
 `(4) AVAILABILITY OF DATA ON POPULATION- With respect to data on the
 civilian population of the territories of the United States, if the Secretary
 determines for a fiscal year that recent such data for purposes of paragraph
 (1)(B) do not exist regarding a territory, the Secretary shall for such
 purposes estimate the civilian population of the territory by modifying
 the data on the territory to reflect the average extent of change occurring
 during the ensuing period in the population of all territories with respect
 to which recent such data do exist.
 `(5) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN PROVISIONS- For purposes of subsections (a) and
 (b), the term `State' does not include the territories of the United States.
 `(d) INDIAN TRIBES AND TRIBAL ORGANIZATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- If the Secretary--
 `(A) receives a request from the governing body of an Indian tribe or tribal
 organization within any State that funds under this subpart be provided
 directly by the Secretary to such tribe or organization; and
 `(B) makes a determination that the members of such tribe or tribal
 organization would be better served by means of grants made directly by
 the Secretary under this;
the Secretary shall reserve from the allotment under section 1921 for the
State for the fiscal year involved an amount that bears the same ratio to the
allotment as the amount provided under this subpart to the tribe or tribal
organization for fiscal year 1991 for activities relating to the prevention
and treatment of the abuse of alcohol and other drugs bore to the amount
of the portion of the allotment under this subpart for the State for such
fiscal year that was expended for such activities.
 `(2) TRIBE OR TRIBAL ORGANIZATION AS GRANTEE- The amount reserved by the
 Secretary on the basis of a determination under this paragraph shall be
 granted to the Indian tribe or tribal organization serving the individuals
 for whom such a determination has been made.
 `(3) APPLICATION- In order for an Indian tribe or tribal organization to
 be eligible for a grant for a fiscal year under this paragraph, it shall
 submit to the Secretary a plan for such fiscal year that meets such criteria
 as the Secretary may prescribe.
 `(4) DEFINITION- The terms `Indian tribe' and `tribal organization' have
 the same meaning given such terms in subsections (b) and (c) of section 4
 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
`SEC. 1934. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this subpart:
 `(1) The term `authorized activities', subject to section 1931, means the
 activities described in section 1921(b).
 `(2) The term `funding agreement', with respect to a grant under section
 1921 to a State, means that the Secretary may make such a grant only if
 the State makes the agreement involved.
 `(3) The term `prevention activities', subject to section 1931, means
 activities to prevent substance abuse.
 `(4) The term `substance abuse' means the abuse of alcohol or other drugs.
 `(5) The term `treatment activities' means treatment services and, subject
 to section 1931, authorized activities that are related to treatment services.
 `(6) The term `treatment facility' means an entity that provides treatment
 services.
 `(7) The term `treatment services', subject to section 1931, means treatment
 for substance abuse.
`SEC. 1935. FUNDING.
 `(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 subpart, subpart III and section 505 with respect to substance abuse, and
 section 515(d), there are authorized to be appropriated $1,500,000,000 for
 fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(b) ALLOCATIONS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, NATIONAL DATA BASE, DATA
 COLLECTION, AND PROGRAM EVALUATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL-
 `(A) For the purpose of carrying out section 1948(a) with respect to substance
 abuse, section 515(d), and the purposes specified in subparagraphs (B) and
 (C), the Secretary shall obligate 5 percent of the amounts appropriated
 under subsection (a) each fiscal year.
 `(B) The purpose specified in this subparagraph is the collection of data
 in this paragraph is carrying out section 505 with respect to substance abuse.
 `(C) The purpose specified in this subparagraph is the conduct of evaluations
 of authorized activities to determine methods for improving the availability
 and quality of such activities.
 `(2) ACTIVITIES OF CENTER FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION- Of the amounts
 reserved under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary, acting
 through the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, shall
 obligate 20 percent for carrying out paragraph (1)(C), section 1949(a)
 with respect to prevention activities, and section 515(d).'.
SEC. 203. GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING BLOCK GRANTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act,
 as amended by section 202 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end
 the following:
`Subpart III--General Provisions
`SEC. 1941. OPPORTUNITY FOR PUBLIC COMMENT ON STATE PLANS.
 `A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 or 1921 is that the
 State involved will make the plan required in section 1912, and the plan
 required in section 1932, respectively, public within the State in such
 manner as to facilitate comment from any person (including any Federal
 or other public agency) during the development of the plan (including any
 revisions) and after the submission of the plan to the Secretary.
`SEC. 1942. REQUIREMENT OF REPORTS AND AUDITS BY STATES.
 `(a) REPORT- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 or 1921
 is that the State involved will submit to the Secretary a report in such
 form and containing such information as the Secretary determines (after
 consultation with the States and the Comptroller General) to be necessary
 for securing a record and a description of--
 `(1) the purposes for which the grant received by the State for the preceding
 fiscal year under the program involved were expended and a description of
 the activities of the State under the program; and
 `(2) the recipients of amounts provided in the grant.
 `(b) AUDITS- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 or 1921 is
 that the State will, with respect to the grant, comply with chapter 75 of
 title 31, United States Code.
 `(c) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC- A funding agreement for a grant under section
 1911 or 1921 is that the State involved will--
 `(1) make copies of the reports and audits described in this section
 available for public inspection within the State; and
 `(2) provide copies of the report under subsection (a), upon request,
 to any interested person (including any public agency).
`SEC. 1943. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 or 1921
 is that the State involved will--
 `(1)(A) for the fiscal year for which the grant involved is provided,
 provide for independent peer review to assess the quality, appropriateness,
 and efficacy of treatment services provided in the State to individuals
 under the program involved; and
 `(B) ensure that, in the conduct of such peer review, not fewer than 5
 percent of the entities providing services in the State under such program
 are reviewed (which 5 percent is representative of the total population of
 such entities);
 `(2) permit and cooperate with Federal investigations undertaken in accordance
 with section 1945; and
 `(3) provide to the Secretary any data required by the Secretary pursuant
 to section 515 and will cooperate with the Secretary in the development of
 uniform criteria for the collection of data pursuant to such section.
 `(b) PATIENT RECORDS- The Secretary may make a grant under section 1911
 or 1921 only if the State involved has in effect a system to protect
 from inappropriate disclosure patient records maintained by the State in
 connection with an activity funded under the program involved or by any
 entity which is receiving amounts from the grant.
`SEC. 1944. DISPOSITION OF CERTAIN FUNDS APPROPRIATED FOR ALLOTMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Amounts described in subsection (b) and available for a
 fiscal year pursuant to section 1911 or 1921, as the case may be, shall be
 allotted by the Secretary and paid to the States receiving a grant under
 the program involved, other than any State referred to in subsection (b)
 with respect to such program. Such amounts shall be allotted in a manner
 equivalent to the manner in which the allotment under the program involved
 was determined.
 `(b) SPECIFICATION OF AMOUNTS- The amounts referred to in subsection (a)
 are any amounts that--
 `(1) are not paid to States under the program involved as a result of--
 `(A) the failure of any State to submit an application in accordance with
 the program;
 `(B) the failure of any State to prepare such application in compliance
 with the program; or
 `(C) any State informing the Secretary that the State does not intend to
 expend the full amount of the allotment made to the State under the program;
 `(2) are terminated, repaid, or offset under section 1945;
 `(3) in the case of the program established in section 1911, are available
 as a result of reductions in allotments under such section pursuant to
 section 1912(d) or 1915(b); or
 `(4) in the case of the program established in section 1921, are available
 as a result of reductions in allotments under such section pursuant to
 section 1926 or 1930.
`SEC. 1945. FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF PAYMENTS- Subject to subsection (e),
 if the Secretary determines that a State has materially failed to comply
 with the agreements or other conditions required for the receipt of a grant
 under the program involved, the Secretary may in whole or in part suspend
 payments under the grant, terminate the grant for cause, or employ such other
 remedies (including the remedies provided for in subsections (b) and (c))
 as may be legally available and appropriate in the circumstances involved.
 `(b) REPAYMENT OF PAYMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (e), the Secretary may require
 a State to repay with interest any payments received by the State under
 section 1911 or 1921 that the Secretary determines were not expended by the
 State in accordance with the agreements required under the program involved.
 `(2) OFFSET AGAINST PAYMENTS- If a State fails to make a repayment required
 in paragraph (1), the Secretary may offset the amount of the repayment
 against the amount of any payment due to be paid to the State under the
 program involved.
 `(c) WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsections (e) and (g)(3), the Secretary may
 withhold payments due under section 1911 or 1921 if the Secretary determines
 that the State involved is not expending amounts received under the program
 involved in accordance with the agreements required under the program.
 `(2) TERMINATION OF WITHHOLDING- The Secretary shall cease withholding
 payments from a State under paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that
 there are reasonable assurances that the State will expend amounts received
 under the program involved in accordance with the agreements required under
 the program.
 `(d) APPLICABILITY OF REMEDIES TO CERTAIN VIOLATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- With respect to agreements or other conditions for receiving
 a grant under the program involved, in the case of the failure of a State
 to maintain material compliance with a condition referred to in paragraph
 (2), the provisions for noncompliance with the condition that are provided
 in the section establishing the condition shall apply in lieu of subsections
 (a) through (c) of this section.
 `(2) RELEVANT CONDITIONS- For purposes of paragraph (1):
 `(A) In the case of the program established in section 1911, a condition
 referred to in this paragraph is the condition established in section 1912(d)
 and the condition established in section 1915(b).
 `(B) In the case of the program established in section 1921, a condition
 referred to in this paragraph is the condition established in section 1926
 and the condition established in section 1930.
 `(e) OPPORTUNITY FOR HEARING- Before taking action against a State under
 any of subsections (a) through (c) (or under a section referred to in
 subsection (d)(2), as the case may be), the Secretary shall provide to the
 State involved adequate notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
 `(f) REQUIREMENT OF HEARING IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- If the Secretary receives a complaint that a State has
 failed to maintain material compliance with the agreements or other
 conditions required for receiving a grant under the program involved
 (including any condition referred to for purposes of subsection (d)),
 and there appears to be reasonable evidence to support the complaint,
 the Secretary shall promptly conduct a hearing with respect to the complaint.
 `(2) FINDING OF MATERIAL NONCOMPLIANCE- If in a hearing under paragraph
 (1) the Secretary finds that the State involved has failed to maintain
 material compliance with the agreement or other condition involved, the
 Secretary shall take such action under this section as may be appropriate
 to ensure that material compliance is so maintained, or such action as may
 be required in a section referred to in subsection (d)(2), as the case may be.
 `(g) CERTAIN INVESTIGATIONS-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT REGARDING SECRETARY- The Secretary shall in fiscal year
 1994 and each subsequent fiscal year conduct in not less than 10 States
 investigations of the expenditure of grants received by the States under
 section 1911 or 1921 in order to evaluate compliance with the agreements
 required under the program involved.
 `(2) PROVISION OF RECORDS ETC. UPON REQUEST- Each State receiving a grant
 under section 1911 or 1921, and each entity receiving funds from the grant,
 shall make appropriate books, documents, papers, and records available to
 the Secretary or the Comptroller General, or any of their duly authorized
 representatives, for examination, copying, or mechanical reproduction on or
 off the premises of the appropriate entity upon a reasonable request therefor.
 `(3) LIMITATIONS ON AUTHORITY- The Secretary may not institute proceedings
 under subsection (c) unless the Secretary has conducted an investigation
 concerning whether the State has expended payments under the program involved
 in accordance with the agreements required under the program. Any such
 investigation shall be conducted within the State by qualified investigators.
`SEC. 1946. PROHIBITIONS REGARDING RECEIPT OF FUNDS.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
 `(1) CERTAIN FALSE STATEMENTS AND REPRESENTATIONS- A person shall not
 knowingly and willfully make or cause to be made any false statement or
 representation of a material fact in connection with the furnishing of
 items or services for which payments may be made by a State from a grant
 made to the State under section 1911 or 1921.
 `(2) CONCEALING OR FAILING TO DISCLOSE CERTAIN EVENTS- A person with knowledge
 of the occurrence of any event affecting the initial or continued right
 of the person to receive any payments from a grant made to a State under
 section 1911 or 1921 shall not conceal or fail to disclose any such event
 with an intent fraudulently to secure such payment either in a greater
 amount than is due or when no such amount is due.
 `(b) CRIMINAL PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF PROHIBITION- Any person who violates
 any prohibition established in subsection (a) shall for each violation be
 fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned for
 not more than 5 years, or both.
`SEC. 1947. NONDISCRIMINATION.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING CERTAIN CIVIL RIGHTS LAWS- For the
 purpose of applying the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis
 of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, on the basis of handicap
 under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, on the basis of sex
 under title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, or on the basis of race,
 color, or national origin under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
 programs and activities funded in whole or in part with funds made available
 under section 1911 or 1921 shall be considered to be programs and activities
 receiving Federal financial assistance.
 `(2) PROHIBITION- No person shall on the ground of sex (including, in the
 case of a woman,  on the ground that the woman is pregnant), or on the ground
 of religion, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of,
 or be subjected to discrimination under, any program or activity funded in
 whole or in part with funds made available under section 1911 or 1921.
 `(b) ENFORCEMENT-
 `(1) REFERRALS TO ATTORNEY GENERAL AFTER NOTICE- Whenever the Secretary finds
 that a State, or an entity that has received a payment pursuant to section
 1911 or 1921, has failed to comply with a provision of law referred to in
 subsection (a)(1), with subsection (a)(2), or with an applicable regulation
 (including one prescribed to carry out subsection (a)(2)), the Secretary
 shall notify the chief executive officer of the State and shall request
 the chief executive officer to secure compliance. If within a reasonable
 period of time, not to exceed 60 days, the chief executive officer fails
 or refuses to secure compliance, the Secretary may--
 `(A) refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation that
 an appropriate civil action be instituted;
 `(B) exercise the powers and functions provided by the Age Discrimination
 Act of 1975, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, title IX of the
 Education Amendments of 1972, or title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964,
 as may be applicable; or
 `(C) take such other actions as may be authorized by law.
 `(2) AUTHORITY OF ATTORNEY GENERAL- When a matter is referred to the Attorney
 General pursuant to paragraph (1)(A), or whenever the Attorney General
 has reason to believe that a State or an entity is engaged in a pattern
 or practice in violation of a provision of law referred to in subsection
 (a)(1) or in violation of subsection (a)(2), the Attorney General may bring
 a civil action in any appropriate district court of the United States for
 such relief as may be appropriate, including injunctive relief.
`SEC. 1948. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PROVISION OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES IN
LIEU OF GRANT FUNDS.
 `(a) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE- The Secretary shall, without charge to a State
 receiving a grant under section 1911 or 1921, provide to the State (or
 to any public or nonprofit private entity within the State) technical
 assistance with respect to the planning, development, and operation of
 any program or service carried out pursuant to the program involved. The
 Secretary may provide such technical assistance directly, through contract,
 or through grants.
 `(b) PROVISION OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES IN LIEU OF GRANT FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Upon the request of a State receiving a grant under section
 1911 or 1921, the Secretary may, subject to paragraph (2), provide supplies,
 equipment, and services for the purpose of aiding the State in carrying
 out the program involved and, for such purpose, may detail to the State
 any officer or employee of the Department of Health and Human Services.
 `(2) CORRESPONDING REDUCTION IN PAYMENTS- With respect to a request described
 in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall reduce the amount of payments under the
 program involved to the State by an amount equal to the costs of detailing
 personnel and the fair market value of any supplies, equipment, or services
 provided by the Secretary. The Secretary shall, for the payment of expenses
 incurred in complying with such request, expend the amounts withheld.
`SEC. 1949. REPORT BY SECRETARY.
 `Not later than January 24, 1994, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
 on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee
 on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report on the activities of
 the States carried out pursuant to the programs established in sections 1911
 and 1921. Such report may include any recommendations of the Secretary for
 appropriate changes in legislation.
`SEC. 1950. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO STATES.
 `With respect to States receiving grants under section 1911 or 1921, this part
 may not be construed to authorize the Secretary to delegate to the States the
 primary responsibility for interpreting the governing provisions of this part.
`SEC. 1951. SOLICITATION OF VIEWS OF CERTAIN ENTITIES.
 `In carrying out this part, the Secretary, as appropriate, shall solicit
 the views of the States and other appropriate entities.
`SEC. 1952. AVAILABILITY TO STATES OF GRANT PAYMENTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), any amounts paid to a State
 under the program involved shall be available for obligation until the end
 of the fiscal year for which the amounts were paid, and if obligated by the
 end of such year, shall remain available for expenditure until the end of
 the succeeding fiscal year.
 `(b) EXCEPTION REGARDING NONCOMPLIANCE OF SUBGRANTEES- If a State has
 in accordance with subsection (a) obligated amounts paid to the State
 under the program involved, in any case in which the Secretary determines
 that the obligation consists of a grant or contract awarded by the State,
 and that the State has terminated or reduced the amount of such financial
 assistance on the basis of the failure of the recipient of the assistance
 to comply with the terms upon which the assistance was conditioned--
 `(1) the amounts involved shall be available for reobligation by the State
 through September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which
 the amounts were paid to the State; and
 `(2) any of such amounts that are obligated by the State in accordance with
 paragraph (1) shall be available for expenditure through such date.
`SEC. 1953. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- Of the amount allotted to the State of Hawaii under section
 1911, and the amount allotted to such State under section 1921, an amount
 equal to the proportion of Native Hawaiians residing in the State to the
 total population of the State shall be available, respectively, for carrying
 out the program involved for Native Hawaiians.
 `(b) EXPENDITURE OF AMOUNTS- The amount made available under subsection (a)
 may be expended only through contracts entered into by the State of Hawaii
 with public and private nonprofit organizations to enable such organizations
 to plan, conduct, and administer comprehensive substance abuse and treatment
 programs for the benefit of Native Hawaiians. In entering into contracts
 under this section, the State of Hawaii shall give preference to Native
 Hawaiian organizations and Native Hawaiian health centers.
 `(c) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this subsection, the terms `Native
 Hawaiian', `Native Hawaiian organization', and `Native Hawaiian health
 center' have the meaning given such terms in section 2308 of subtitle D of
 title II of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988.
`SEC. 1954. DEFINITIONS.
 `(a) DEFINITIONS FOR SUBPART III- For purposes of this subpart:
 `(1) The term `program involved' means the program of grants established in
 section 1911 or 1921, or both, as indicated by whether the State involved
 is receiving or is applying to receive a grant under section 1911 or 1921,
 or both.
 `(2)(A) The term `funding agreement', with respect to a grant under section
 1911, has the meaning given such term in section 1919.
 `(B) The term `funding agreement', with respect to a grant under section
 1921, has the meaning given such term in section 1934.
 `(b) DEFINITIONS FOR PART B- For purposes of this part:
 `(1) The term `Comptroller General' means the Comptroller General of the
 United States.
 `(2) The term `State', except as provided in sections 1918(c)(5) and
 1933(c)(5), means each of the several States, the District of Columbia,
 and each of the territories of the United States.
 `(3) The term `territories of the United States' means each of the
 Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the
 Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Palau, the Marshall Islands,
 and Micronesia.
 `(4) The term `interim services', in the case of an individual in need of
 treatment for substance abuse who has been denied admission to a program
 of such treatment on the basis of the lack of the capacity of the program
 to admit the individual, means services for reducing the adverse health
 effects of such abuse, for promoting the health of the individual, and for
 reducing the risk of transmission of disease, which services are provided
 until the individual is admitted to such a program.'.
 (b) FEDERAL ACCOUNTABILITY- Any rule or regulation of the Department of
 Health and Human Services that is inconsistent with the amendments made by
 this Act shall not have any legal effect, including section 50(e) of part
 96 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations (45 CFR 96.50(e)).
SEC. 204. RELATED PROGRAMS.
 Title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300w et seq.) is
 amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part C--Certain Programs Regarding Substance Abuse
`Subpart I--Expansion of Capacity for Providing Treatment
`SEC. 1971. CATEGORICAL GRANTS TO STATES.
 `(a) GRANTS FOR STATES WITH INSUFFICIENT CAPACITY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Center
 for Substance Abuse Treatment, may make grants to States for the purpose of
 increasing the maximum number of individuals to whom public and nonprofit
 private entities in the States are capable of providing effective treatment
 for substance abuse.
 `(2) ELIGIBLE STATES- The Director may not make a grant under subsection (a)
 to a State unless the number of individuals seeking treatment services in
 the State significantly exceeds the maximum number described in paragraph
 (1) that is applicable to the State.
 `(b) PRIORITY IN MAKING GRANTS-
 `(1) RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT SERVICES FOR PREGNANT WOMEN- In making grants
 under subsection (a), the Director shall give priority to States that agree
 to give priority in the expenditure of the grant to carrying out the purpose
 described in such subsection as the purpose relates to the provision of
 residential treatment services to pregnant women.
 `(2) ADDITIONAL PRIORITY REGARDING MATCHING FUNDS- In the case of any
 application for a grant under subsection (a) that is receiving priority under
 paragraph (1), the Director shall give further priority to the application if
 the State involved agrees as a condition of receiving the grant to provide
 non-Federal contributions under subsection (c) in a greater amount than
 the amount required under such subsection for the applicable fiscal year.
 `(c) REQUIREMENT OF MATCHING FUNDS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (3), the Director may not make a grant
 under subsection (a) unless the State agrees, with respect to the costs of
 the program to be carried out by the State pursuant to such subsection,
 to make available (directly or through donations from public or private
 entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount that is--
 `(A) for the first fiscal year for which the State receives such a grant,
 not less than $1 for each $9 of Federal funds provided in the grant;
 `(B) for any second or third such fiscal year, not less than $1 for each
 $9 of Federal funds provided in the grant; and
 `(C) for any subsequent such fiscal year, not less than $1 for each $3 of
 Federal funds provided in the grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION- Non-Federal
 contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly
 evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the
 Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant
 extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the
 amount of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(3) WAIVER- The Director may waive the requirement established in paragraph
 (1) if the Director determines that extraordinary economic conditions in
 the State justify the waiver.
 `(d) LIMITATION REGARDING DIRECT TREATMENT SERVICES- The Director may not make
 a grant under subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that the grant
 will be expended only for the direct provision of treatment services. The
 preceding sentence may not be construed to authorize the expenditure of
 such a grant for the planning or evaluation of treatment services.
 `(e) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may not make a grant under
 subsection (a) unless an application for the grant is submitted to the
 Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(f) DURATION OF GRANT- The period during which payments are made to a State
 from a grant under subsection (a) may not exceed 5 years. The provision of
 such payments shall be subject to annual approval by the Director of the
 payments and subject to the availability of appropriations for the fiscal
 year involved to make the payments.
 `(g) MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT- The Director may not make a grant under subsection
 (a) unless the State involved agrees to maintain State expenditures for
 treatment services at a level that is not less than the average level of
 such expenditures maintained by the State for the 2-year period preceding
 the first fiscal year for which the State receives such a grant.
 `(h) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GRANT- The Director may not make a grant under
 subsection (a) unless the State involved agrees that the grant will not
 be expended--
 `(1) to provide inpatient hospital services;
 `(2) to make cash payments to intended recipients of health services;
 `(3) to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or permanently improve
 (other than minor remodeling) any building or other facility, or purchase
 major medical equipment;
 `(4) to satisfy any requirement for the expenditure of non-Federal funds
 as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds; or
 `(5) to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or
 nonprofit private entity.
 `(i) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 `(1) The term `Director' means the Director of the Center for Substance
 Abuse Treatment.
 `(2) The term `substance abuse' means the abuse of alcohol or other drugs.
 `(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $86,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
`Subpart II--Interim Maintenance Treatment of Narcotics Dependence
`SEC. 1976. INTERIM MAINTENANCE TREATMENT.
 `(a) REQUIREMENT REGARDING SECRETARY- Subject to the following subsections of
 this section, for the purpose of reducing the incidence of the transmission of
 HIV disease pursuant to the intravenous abuse of heroin or other morphine-like
 drugs, the Secretary, in establishing conditions for the use of methadone
 in public or nonprofit private programs of treatment for dependence on such
 drugs, shall authorize such programs--
 `(1) to dispense methadone for treatment purposes to individuals who--
 `(A) meet the conditions for admission to such programs that dispense
 methadone as part of comprehensive treatment for such dependence; and
 `(B) are seeking admission to such programs that so dispense methadone,
 but as a result of the limited capacity of the programs, will not gain such
 admission until 14 or more days after seeking admission to the programs; and
 `(2) in dispensing methadone to such individuals, to provide only minimum
 ancillary services during the period in which the individuals are waiting
 for admission to programs of comprehensive treatment.
 `(b) INAPPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENT IN CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The requirement established in subsection (a) for the
 Secretary does not apply if any or all of the following conditions are met:
 `(A) The preponderance of scientific research indicates that the risk of
 the transmission of HIV disease pursuant to the intravenous abuse of drugs
 is minimal.
 `(B) The preponderance of scientific research indicates that the medically
 supervised dispensing of methadone is not an effective method of reducing
 the extent of dependence on heroin and other morphine-like drugs.
 `(C) The preponderance of available data indicates that, of treatment programs
 that dispense methadone as part of comprehensive treatment, a substantial
 majority admit all individuals seeking services to the programs not later
 than 14 days after the individuals seek admission to the programs.
 `(2) EVALUATION BY SECRETARY- In evaluating whether any or all of the
 conditions described in paragraph (1) have been met, the Secretary shall
 consult with the National Commission on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome.
 `(c) CONDITIONS FOR OBTAINING AUTHORIZATION FROM SECRETARY-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out the requirement established in subsection
 (a), the Secretary shall, after consultation with the National Commission
 on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, by regulation issue such conditions
 for treatment programs to obtain authorization from the Secretary to provide
 interim maintenance treatment as may be necessary to carry out the purpose
 described in such subsection. Such conditions shall include conditions for
 preventing the unauthorized use of methadone.
 `(2) COUNSELING ON HIV DISEASE- The regulations issued under paragraph (1)
 shall provide that an authorization described in such paragraph may not be
 issued to a treatment program unless the program provides to recipients of
 the treatment counseling on preventing exposure to and the transmission of
 HIV disease.
 `(3) PERMISSION OF RELEVANT STATE AS CONDITION OF AUTHORIZATION- The
 regulations issued under paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary may
 not provide an authorization described in such paragraph to any treatment
 program in a State unless the chief public health officer of the State has
 certified to the Secretary that--
 `(A) such officer does not object to the provision of such authorizations
 to treatment programs in the State; and
 `(B) the provision of interim maintenance services in the State will not
 reduce the capacity of comprehensive treatment programs in the State to
 admit individuals to the programs (relative to the date on which such
 officer so certifies).
 `(4) DATE CERTAIN FOR ISSUANCE OF REGULATIONS; FAILURE OF SECRETARY-
 The Secretary shall issue the final rule for purposes of the regulations
 required in paragraph (1), and such rule shall be effective, not later
 than the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the
 enactment of the ADAMHA Reorganization Act. If the Secretary fails to meet
 the requirement of the preceding sentence, the proposed rule issued on March
 2, 1989, with respect to part 291 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
 (docket numbered 88N-0444; 54 Fed. Reg. 8973 et seq.) is deemed to take effect
 as a final rule upon the expiration of such period, and the provisions of
 paragraph (3) of this subsection are deemed to be incorporated into such rule.
 `(d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `interim maintenance services' means the provision of methadone
 in a treatment program under the circumstances described in paragraphs (1)
 and (2) of subsection (a).
 `(2) The term `HIV disease' means infection with the etiologic agent for
 acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
 `(3) The term `treatment program' means a public or nonprofit private
 program of treatment for dependence on heroin or other morphine-like drugs.'.
SEC. 205. TEMPORARY PROVISIONS REGARDING FUNDING.
 (a) REALLOTMENT OF UNPAID PORTION OF ALLOTMENT FOR FISCAL YEAR 1992-
 (1) IN GENERAL- With respect to allotments made for fiscal year 1992 under
 part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (as in effect on the day
 before the date of the enactment of this Act), any portion of the total of
 such allotments that has not been paid to the States as of the first day of
 the fourth quarter of such fiscal year shall be reallotted with the result
 that, subject to paragraph (2), the total allotment made for a State for
 fiscal year 1992 pursuant to such part (including reallotments under this
 paragraph) is the amount indicated for the State in the following table:
State
--Amount
 Alabama
--$18,751,646
 Alaska
--$2,734,000
 Arizona
--$19,352,828
 Arkansas
--$8,927,066
 California
--$186,245,891
 Colorado
--$17,873,097
 Connecticut
--$16,576,000
 Delaware
--$3,329,654
 District of Columbia
--$4,896,000
 Florida
--$63,093,000
 Georgia
--$28,383,202
 Hawaii
--$6,279,545
 Idaho
--$3,422,626
 Illinois
--$62,631,938
 Indiana
--$28,563,000
 Iowa
--$10,017,948
 Kansas
--$8,929,313
 Kentucky
--$14,691,461
 Louisiana
--$19,625,929
 Maine
--$5,466,524
 Maryland
--$24,896,906
 Massachusetts
--$36,009,000
 Michigan
--$47,968,489
 Minnesota
--$19,061,274
 Mississippi
--$10,215,502
 Missouri
--$22,952,468
 Montana
--$3,523,100
 Nebraska
--$6,019,775
 Nevada
--$6,975,991
 New Hampshire
--$5,290,704
 New Jersey
--$47,170,000
 New Mexico
--$7,079,374
 New York
--$103,643,000
 North Carolina
--$27,237,938
 North Dakota
--$2,456,891
 Ohio
--$56,647,000
 Oklahoma
--$13,801,384
 Oregon
--$13,824,013
 Pennsylvania
--$61,799,000
 Rhode Island
--$7,336,000
 South Carolina
--$15,403,164
 South Dakota
--$3,759,000
 Tennessee
--$20,490,809
 Texas
--$80,194,508
 Utah
--$10,705,633
 Vermont
--$3,918,000
 Virginia
--$27,883,059
 Washington
--$27,284,210
 West Virginia
--$7,475,330
 Wisconsin
--$20,222,918
 Wyoming
--$1,584,892
 (2) GRANTS FROM ALLOTMENTS; CERTAIN CONDITIONS REGARDING ALL PAYMENTS
 PURSUANT TO PART B FOR FISCAL YEAR 1992- The Secretary shall make a grant
 to a State of the reallotment made for the State under paragraph (1) if
 the State agrees that the grant is subject to all conditions upon which
 allotments and payments under part B of title XIX of the Public Health
 Service Act are made for fiscal year 1992 (as in effect on the day before
 the date of the enactment of this Act), except as follows:
 (A) Notwithstanding section 1916(c)(6)(A) of such part--
 (i) the percentage of the total allotment referred to in paragraph (1)
 that is expended for mental health activities will be not less than the
 percentage determined under clause (i) of such section 1916(c)(6)(A) for
 fiscal year 1991; and
 (ii) the percentage of such total allotment that is expended for alcohol
 and drug abuse activities will be not less than the percentage determined
 under clause (ii) of such section 1916(c)(6)(A) for fiscal year 1991.
 (B)(i) In the case of such a grant to the State of California: With respect
 to any entity that received a grant under section 509E of the Public Health
 Service Act for fiscal year 1991 (as such section was in effect for such
 year) to carry out a program of services in such State--
 (I) the State will expend the grant to provide financial assistance to the
 entity for the purpose of continuing the program in such State, subject to
 clause (ii); and
 (II) the amount of such assistance for the fiscal year will be an amount
 equal to the amount the entity received under such section 509E for fiscal
 year 1991.
 (ii) The Secretary shall waive the requirement established in clause
 (i) with respect to a program described in such clause if the State of
 California certifies to the Secretary that the level of services provided
 by the program is not needed, or that the program has not provided services
 in an effective manner (as determined under State quality standards).
 (3) INAPPLICABILITY TO TERRITORIES- For purposes of this subsection, the term
 `State' means each of the several States and the District of Columbia.
 (b) CONTINGENT AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFERS BETWEEN ALLOTMENTS-
 (1) SUBPART II TO SUBPART I- In the case of any State for which an allotment
 for fiscal year 1993 or 1994 under section 1911 is made in an amount that is
 less than the mental health portion of the allotment under former section
 1912A for fiscal year 1991, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the
 chief executive officer of the State, transfer from the allotment under
 section 1921 for the fiscal year involved to the allotment under section
 1911 for the fiscal year such amounts as the State may direct, subject to
 the allotment under section 1911 not exceeding the amount of such mental
 health portion.
 (2) SUBPART I TO SUBPART II- In the case of any State for which an allotment
 for fiscal year 1993 or 1994 under section 1921 is made in an amount that
 is less than the substance-abuse portion of the allotment under former
 section 1912A for fiscal year 1991, the Secretary shall, upon the request
 of the chief executive officer of the State, transfer from the allotment
 under section 1911 for the fiscal year involved to the allotment under
 section 1921 for the fiscal year such amounts as the State may direct,
 subject to the allotment under section 1921 not exceeding the amount of
 such substance-abuse portion.
 (3) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this subsection:
 (A) The term `section 1911' means section 1911 of the Public Health
 Service Act.
 (B) The term `section 1921' means section 1921 of the Public Health
 Service Act.
 (C) The term `former section 1912A' means section 1912A of the Public Health
 Service Act, as such section was in effect for fiscal year 1991.
 (D) The term `former section 1916(c)(6)(A)' means section 1916(c)(6)(A) of the
 Public Health Service Act, as such section was in effect for fiscal year 1991.
 (E) The term `mental health portion', with respect to an allotment under
 former section 1912A for fiscal year 1991, means the amount of such allotment
 that was reserved by the State for such year in compliance with clause (i)
 of former section 1916(c)(6)(A).
 (F) The term `substance-abuse portion', with respect to an allotment under
 former section 1912A for fiscal year 1991, means the amount of such allotment
 that was reserved by the State for such year in compliance with clause (ii)
 of former section 1916(c)(6)(A).
 (c) PROGRAM FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Subject to paragraph (2), for the purpose of carrying out
 section 508 of the Public Health Service Act for fiscal year 1993, the
 Secretary shall obligate 40 percent of the amounts made available pursuant
 to section 1935(b) of such Act for such fiscal year.
 (2) LIMITATION- Paragraph (1) shall apply only to the extent necessary
 to ensure that $80,000,000 is available for fiscal year 1993 to carry out
 section 508 of the Public Health Service Act.
 (d) DEFINITION OF SECRETARY- For purposes of this section, the term
 `Secretary' means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
TITLE III--MODEL COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM FOR TREATMENT OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE
SEC. 301. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM IN NATIONAL CAPITAL AREA.
 Title V of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 119 of this
 Act, is amended by adding at the end the following part:
`Part F--Model Comprehensive Program for Treatment of Substance Abuse
`DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM IN NATIONAL CAPITAL AREA
 `SEC. 571. (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, in collaboration with the
 Director of the Treatment Center, shall make a demonstration grant for the
 establishment, within the national capital area, of a model program for
 providing comprehensive treatment services for substance abuse.
 `(b) PURPOSES- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a)
 unless, with respect to the comprehensive treatment services to be offered
 by the program under such subsection, the applicant for the grant agrees--
 `(1) to ensure, to the extent practicable, that the program has the capacity
 to provide the services to all individuals who seek and would benefit from
 the services;
 `(2) as appropriate, to provide education on obtaining employment and other
 matters with respect to assisting the individuals in preventing any relapse
 into substance abuse, including education on the appropriate involvement
 of parents and others in preventing such a relapse;
 `(3) to provide services in locations accessible to substance abusers and,
 to the extent practicable, to provide services through mobile facilities;
 `(4) to give priority to providing services to individuals who are intravenous
 drug abusers, to pregnant women, to homeless individuals, and to residents
 of publicly-assisted housing;
 `(5) with respect to women with dependent children, to provide child care
 to such women seeking treatment services for substance abuse;
 `(6) to conduct outreach activities to inform individuals of the availability
 of the services of the program;
 `(7) to provide case management services, including services to determine
 eligibility for assistance under Federal, State, and local programs providing
 health services, mental health services, or social services;
 `(8) to ensure the establishment of one or more offices to oversee the
 coordination of the activities of the program, to ensure that treatment is
 available to those seeking it, to ensure that the program is administered
 efficiently, and to ensure that the public is informed that the offices
 are the locations at which individuals may make inquiries concerning the
 program, including the location of available treatment services within the
 national capital area; and
 `(9) to develop and utilize standards for certifying the knowledge and
 training of individuals, and the quality of programs, to provide treatment
 services for substance abuse.
 `(c) CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS-
 `(1) REGARDING ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANT-
 `(A) The Secretary may not make the grant under subsection (a) unless the
 applicant involved is an organization of the general-purpose local governments
 within the national capital area, or another public or nonprofit private
 entity, and the applicant submits to the Secretary assurances satisfactory
 to the Secretary that, with respect to the communities in which services
 will be offered, the local governments of the communities will participate
 in the program.
 `(B) The Secretary may not make the grant under subsection (a) unless--
 `(i) an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary;
 `(ii) with respect to carrying out the purpose for which the grant is to
 be made, the application provides assurances of compliance satisfactory to
 the Secretary; and
 `(iii) the application otherwise is in such form, is made in such manner,
 and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(2) AUTHORITY FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The grantee under subsection (a)
 may provide the services required by such subsection directly or through
 arrangements with public and nonprofit private entities.
 `(d) REQUIREMENT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a)
 unless the applicant for the grant agrees, with respect to the costs to
 be incurred by the applicant in carrying out the purpose described in such
 subsection, to make available (directly or through donations from public or
 private entities) non-Federal contributions toward such costs in an amount
 not less than $1 for each $2 of Federal funds provided under the grant.
 `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT CONTRIBUTED- Non-Federal contributions
 required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated,
 including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts provided by the Federal
 Government, or services assisted or subsidized to any significant extent
 by the Federal Government, may not be included in determining the amount
 of such non-Federal contributions.
 `(e) EVALUATIONS-
 `(1) BY SECRETARY- The Secretary shall independently evaluate the
 effectiveness of the program carried out under subsection (a) and determine
 its suitability as a model for the United States, particularly regarding
 the provision of high quality, patient-oriented, coordinated and accessible
 drug treatment services across jurisdictional lines. The Secretary shall
 consider the extent to which the program has improved patient retention,
 accessibility of services, staff retention and quality, reduced patient
 relapse, and provided a full range of drug treatment and related health and
 human services. The Secretary shall evaluate the extent to which the program
 has effectively utilized innovative methods for overcoming the resistance
 of the residents of communities to the establishment of treatment facilities
 within the communities.
 `(2) BY GRANTEE- The Secretary may require the grantee under subsection (a)
 to evaluate any aspect of the program carried out under such subsection,
 and such evaluation shall, to the extent appropriate, be coordinated with
 the independent evaluation required in paragraph (1).
 `(3) LIMITATION- Funds made available under subsection (h) may not be
 utilized to conduct the independent evaluation required in paragraph (1).
 `(f) REPORTS-
 `(1) INITIAL CRITERIA- The Secretary shall make a determination of the
 appropriate criteria for carrying out the program required in subsection
 (a), including the anticipated need for, and range of, services under
 the program in the communities involved and the anticipated costs of the
 program. Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of the
 ADAMHA Reorganization Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a
 report describing the findings made as a result of the determination.
 `(2) ANNUAL REPORTS- Not later than 2 years after the date on which the
 grant is made under subsection (a), and annually thereafter, the Secretary
 shall submit to the Congress a report describing the extent to which the
 program carried out under such subsection has been effective in carrying
 out the purposes of the program.
 `(g) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `national capital
 area' means the metropolitan Washington area, including the District of
 Columbia, the cities of Alexandria, Falls Church, and Fairfax in the State
 of Virginia, the counties of Arlington and Fairfax in such State (and
 the political subdivisions located in such counties), and the counties of
 Montgomery and Prince George's in the State of Maryland (and the political
 subdivisions located in such counties).
 `(h) OBLIGATION OF FUNDS- Of the amounts appropriated for each of the fiscal
 years 1993 and 1994 for the programs of the Department of Health and Human
 Services, the Secretary shall make available $10,000,000 for carrying out
 this section. Of the amounts appropriated for fiscal year 1995 for the
 programs of such Department, the Secretary shall make available $5,000,000
 for carrying out this section.'.
TITLE IV--CHILDREN OF SUBSTANCE ABUSERS
SEC. 401. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF SERVICES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 301
 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part M--Services for Children of Substance Abusers
`SEC. 399D. GRANTS FOR SERVICES FOR CHILDREN OF SUBSTANCE ABUSERS.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the
 Health Resources and Services Administration, shall make grants to public
 and nonprofit private entities for the purpose of carrying out programs--
 `(A) to provide the services described in subsection (b) to children of
 substance abusers;
 `(B) to provide the applicable services described in subsection (c) to
 families in which a member is a substance abuser; and
 `(C) to identify such children and such families.
 `(2) ADMINISTRATIVE CONSULTATIONS- The Administrator of the Administration for
 Children, Youth, and Families and the Administrator of the Substance Abuse
 and Mental Health Services Administration shall be consulted regarding the
 promulgation of program guidelines and funding priorities under this section.
 `(3) REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS MEDICAID PROVIDER-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may make a grant under
 paragraph (1) only if, in the case of any service under such paragraph
 that is covered in the State plan approved under title XIX of the Social
 Security Act for the State involved--
 `(i) the entity involved will provide the service directly, and the entity
 has entered into a participation agreement under the State plan and is
 qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
 `(ii) the entity will enter into an agreement with an organization under which
 the organization will provide the service, and the organization has entered
 into such a participation agreement and is qualified to receive such payments.
 `(B)(i) In the case of an organization making an agreement under subparagraph
 (A)(ii) regarding the provision of services under paragraph (1), the
 requirement established in such subparagraph regarding a participation
 agreement shall be waived by the Secretary if the organization does not,
 in providing health or mental health services, impose a charge or accept
 reimbursement available from any third-party payor, including reimbursement
 under any insurance policy or under any Federal or State health benefits
 program.
 `(ii) A determination by the Secretary of whether an organization referred
 to in clause (i) meets the criteria for a waiver under such clause shall be
 made without regard to whether the organization accepts voluntary donations
 regarding the provision of services to the public.
 `(b) SERVICES FOR CHILDREN OF SUBSTANCE ABUSERS- The Secretary may make a
 grant under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees to make
 available (directly or through agreements with other entities) to children
 of substance abusers each of the following services:
 `(1) Periodic evaluation of children for developmental, psychological,
 and medical problems.
 `(2) Primary pediatric care.
 `(3) Other necessary health and mental health services.
 `(4) Therapeutic intervention services for children, including provision
 of therapeutic child care.
 `(5) Preventive counseling services.
 `(6) Counseling related to the witnessing of chronic violence.
 `(7) Referrals for, and assistance in establishing eligibility for, services
 provided under--
 `(A) education and special education programs;
 `(B) Head Start programs established under the Head Start Act;
 `(C) other early childhood programs;
 `(D) employment and training programs;
 `(E) public assistance programs provided by Federal, State, or local
 governments; and
 `(F) programs offered by vocational rehabilitation agencies, recreation
 departments, and housing agencies.
 `(8) Additional developmental services that are consistent with the provision
 of early intervention services, as such term is defined in part H of the
 Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
 `(c) SERVICES FOR AFFECTED FAMILIES- The Secretary may make a grant under
 subsection (a) only if, in the case of families in which a member is a
 substance abuser, the applicant involved agrees to make available (directly
 or through agreements with other entities) each of the following services,
 as applicable to the family member involved:
 `(1) Services as follows, to be provided by a public health nurse, social
 worker, or similar professional, or by a trained worker from the community
 who is supervised by a professional:
 `(A) Counseling to substance abusers on the benefits and availability of
 substance abuse treatment services and services for children of substance
 abusers.
 `(B) Assistance to substance abusers in obtaining and using substance abuse
 treatment services and in obtaining the services described in subsection
 (b) for their children.
 `(C) Visiting and providing support to substance abusers, especially pregnant
 women, who are receiving substance abuse treatment services or whose children
 are receiving services under subsection (b).
 `(2) In the case of substance abusers:
 `(A) Encouragement and, where necessary, referrals to participate in
 appropriate substance abuse treatment.
 `(B) Primary health care and mental health services, including prenatal
 and post partum care for pregnant women.
 `(C) Consultation and referral regarding subsequent pregnancies and life
 options, including education and career planning.
 `(D) Where appropriate, counseling regarding family conflict and violence.
 `(E) Remedial education services.
 `(F) Referrals for, and assistance in establishing eligibility for, services
 described in subsection (b)(7).
 `(3) In the case of substance abusers, spouses of substance abusers,
 extended family members of substance abusers, caretakers of children of
 substance abusers, and other people significantly involved in the lives of
 substance abusers or the children of substance abusers:
 `(A) An assessment of the strengths and service needs of the family and
 the assignment of a case manager who will coordinate services for the family.
 `(B) Therapeutic intervention services, such as parental counseling, joint
 counseling sessions for families and children, and family therapy.
 `(C) Child care or other care for the child to enable the parent to attend
 treatment or other activities and respite care services.
 `(D) Parenting education services and parent support groups.
 `(E) Support services, including, where appropriate, transportation services.
 `(F) Where appropriate, referral of other family members to related services
 such as job training.
 `(G) Aftercare services, including continued support through parent groups
 and home visits.
 `(d) CONSIDERATIONS IN MAKING GRANTS- In making grants under subsection
 (a), the Secretary shall ensure that the grants are reasonably distributed
 among the following types of entities:
 `(1) Alcohol and drug treatment programs, especially those providing
 treatment to pregnant women and mothers and their children.
 `(2) Public or nonprofit private entities that provide health or social
 services to disadvantaged populations, and that have--
 `(A) expertise in applying the services to the particular problems of
 substance abusers and the children of substance abusers; and
 `(B) an affiliation or contractual relationship with one or more substance
 abuse treatment programs.
 `(3) Consortia of public or nonprofit private entities that include at
 least one substance abuse treatment program.
 `(4) Indian tribes.
 `(e) FEDERAL SHARE- The Federal share of a program carried out under
 subsection (a) shall be 90 percent. The Secretary shall accept the value
 of in-kind contributions, including facilities and personnel, made by the
 grant recipient as a part or all of the non-Federal share of grants.
 `(f) COORDINATION WITH OTHER PROVIDERS- The Secretary may make a grant
 under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees to coordinate its
 activities with those of the State lead agency, and the State Interagency
 Coordinating Council, under part H of the Individuals with Disabilities
 Education Act.
 `(g) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GRANT- The Secretary may make a grant under
 subsection (a) only if the applicant involved agrees that the grant will
 not be expended--
 `(1) to provide inpatient hospital services;
 `(2) to make cash payments to intended recipients of services;
 `(3) to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or permanently improve
 (other than minor remodeling) any building or other facility, or purchase
 major medical equipment;
 `(4) to satisfy any requirement for the expenditure of non-Federal funds
 as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds; or
 `(5) to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or
 nonprofit private entity.
 `(h) SUBMISSION TO SECRETARY OF CERTAIN INFORMATION- The Secretary may
 make a grant under subsection (a) only if the applicant involved submits
 to the Secretary--
 `(1) a description of the population that is to receive services under
 this section and a description of such services that are to be provided
 and measurable goals and objectives;
 `(2) a description of the mechanism that will be used to involve the
 local public agencies responsible for health, mental health, child welfare,
 education, juvenile justice, developmental disabilities, and substance abuse
 treatment programs in planning and providing services under this section,
 as well as evidence that the proposal has been coordinated with the State
 agencies responsible for administering those programs and the State agency
 responsible for administering public maternal and child health services;
 `(3) information demonstrating that the applicant has established a
 collaborative relationship with child welfare agencies and child protective
 services that will enable the applicant, where appropriate, to--
 `(A) provide advocacy on behalf of substance abusers and the children of
 substance abusers in child protective services cases;
 `(B) provide services to help prevent the unnecessary placement of children
 in substitute care; and
 `(C) promote reunification of families or permanent plans for the placement
 of the child; and
 `(4) such other information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(i) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection
 (a) only if the applicant involved agrees that for each fiscal year for
 which the applicant receives such a grant the applicant, in accordance with
 uniform standards developed by the Secretary, will submit to the Secretary
 a report containing--
 `(1) a description of specific services and activities provided under
 the grant;
 `(2) information regarding progress toward meeting the program's stated
 goals and objectives;
 `(3) information concerning the extent of use of services provided under
 the grant, including the number of referrals to related services and
 information on other programs or services accessed by children, parents,
 and other caretakers;
 `(4) information concerning the extent to which parents were able to access
 and receive treatment for alcohol and drug abuse and sustain participation in
 treatment over time until the provider and the individual receiving treatment
 agree to end such treatment, and the extent to which parents re-enter
 treatment after the successful or unsuccessful termination of treatment;
 `(5) information concerning the costs of the services provided and the
 source of financing for health care services;
 `(6) information concerning--
 `(A) the number and characteristics of families, parents, and children served,
 including a description of the type and severity of childhood disabilities,
 and an analysis of the number of children served by age;
 `(B) the number of children served who remained with their parents during
 the period in which entities provided services under this section;
 `(C) the number of children served who were placed in out-of-home care
 during the period in which entities provided services under this section;
 `(D) the number of children described in subparagraph (C) who were reunited
 with their families; and
 `(E) the number of children described in subparagraph (C) for whom a
 permanent plan has not been made or for whom the permanent plan is other
 than family reunification;
 `(7) information on hospitalization or emergency room use by the family
 members participating in the program; and
 `(8) such other information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(j) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may make any grant under
 subsection (a) only if--
 `(1) an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary;
 `(2) the application contains the agreements required in this section and
 the information required in subsection (h); and
 `(3) the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains
 such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines
 to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(k) PEER REVIEW-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- In making determinations for awarding grants under
 subsection (a), the Secretary shall rely on the recommendations of the peer
 review panel established under paragraph (2).
 `(2) COMPOSITION- The Secretary shall establish a review panel to make
 recommendations under paragraph (1) that shall be composed of--
 `(A) national experts in the fields of maternal and child health, substance
 abuse treatment, and child welfare; and
 `(B) representatives of relevant Federal agencies, including the Health
 Resources and Services Administration, the Substance Abuse and Mental
 Health Services Administration, and the Administration for Children, Youth,
 and Families.
 `(l) EVALUATIONS- The Secretary shall periodically conduct evaluations to
 determine the effectiveness of programs supported under subsection (a)--
 `(1) in reducing the incidence of alcohol and drug abuse among substance
 abusers participating in the programs;
 `(2) in preventing adverse health conditions in children of substance abusers;
 `(3) in promoting better utilization of health and developmental services
 and improving the health, developmental, and psychological status of children
 receiving services under the program;
 `(4) in improving parental and family functioning;
 `(5) in reducing the incidence of out-of-home placement for children whose
 parents receive services under the program; and
 `(6) in facilitating the reunification of families after children have been
 placed in out-of-home care.
 `(m) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 2 years after the date on which
 amounts are first appropriated under subjection (o), the Secretary shall
 prepare and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives, and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
 Senate, a report that contains a description of programs carried out under
 this section. At a minimum, the report shall contain--
 `(1) information concerning the number and type of programs receiving grants;
 `(2) information concerning the type and use of services offered;
 `(3) information concerning--
 `(A) the number and characteristics of families, parents, and children served;
 `(B) the number of children served who remained with their parents during
 or after the period in which entities provided services under this section;
 `(C) the number of children served who were placed in out-of-home care
 during the period in which entities provided services under this section;
 `(D) the number of children described in subparagraph (C) who were reunited
 with their families; and
 `(E) the number of children described in subparagraph (C) who were permanently
 placed in out-of-home care;
analyzed by the type of entity described in subsection (d) that provided
services;
 `(4) an analysis of the access provided to, and use of, related services
 and alcohol and drug treatment through programs carried out under this
 section; and
 `(5) a comparison of the costs of providing services through each of the
 types of entities described in subsection (d).
 `(n)  DATA COLLECTION- The Secretary shall periodically collect and report on
 information concerning the numbers of children in substance abusing families,
 including information on the age, gender and ethnicity of the children, the
 composition and income of the family, and the source of health care finances.
 `(o) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `caretaker', with respect to a child of a substance abuser,
 means any individual acting in a parental role regarding the child (including
 any birth parent, foster parent, adoptive parent, relative of such a child,
 or other individual acting in such a role).
 `(2) The term `children of substance abusers' means--
 `(A) children who have lived or are living in a household with a substance
 abuser who is acting in a parental role regarding the children; and
 `(B) children who have been prenatally exposed to alcohol or other dangerous
 drugs.
 `(3) The term `Indian tribe' means any tribe, band, nation, or other organized
 group or community of Indians, including any Alaska Native village (as
 defined in, or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement
 Act), that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services
 provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.
 `(4) The term `public or nonprofit private entities that provide health
 or social services to disadvantaged populations' includes community-based
 organizations, local public health departments, community action agencies,
 hospitals, community health centers, child welfare agencies, developmental
 disabilities service providers, and family resource and support programs.
 `(5) The term `substance abuse' means the abuse of alcohol or other drugs.
 `(p) FUNDING-
 `(1) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there are authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 1994.
 `(2) CONTINGENT AUTHORITY REGARDING TRAINING OF CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS- Of
 the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year in excess of
 $25,000,000, the Secretary may make available not more than 15 percent for
 the training of health care professionals and other personnel (including
 child welfare providers) who provide services to children and families of
 substance abusers.
 (b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- With respect to the program established in
 section 399D of the Public Health Service Act (as added by subsection
 (a) of this section), nothing in such section 399D may be construed as
 establishing for any other Federal program any requirement, authority,
 or prohibition, including with respect to recipients of funds under such
 other Federal programs.
TITLE V--HOME VISITING SERVICES FOR AT-RISK FAMILIES
SEC. 501. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this title is--
 (1) to increase the use of, and to provide information on the availability
 of early, continuous and comprehensive prenatal care;
 (2) to reduce the incidence of infant mortality and of infants born
 prematurely, with low birthweight, or with other impairments including
 those associated with maternal substance abuse;
 (3) for pregnant women and mothers of children below the age of 3 whose
 children have experienced or are at risk of experiencing a health or
 developmental complication, to provide assistance in obtaining health and
 related social services necessary to meet the special needs of the women
 and their children;
 (4) to assist, when requested, women who are pregnant and at-risk for poor
 birth outcomes, or who have young children and are abusing alcohol or other
 drugs, in obtaining appropriate treatment; and
 (5) to reduce the incidence of child abuse and neglect.
SEC. 502. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS.
 Part L of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C.  280c et
 seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating sections 399 and 399A as sections 398A and 398B,
 respectively; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following subpart:
`Subpart III--Grants for Home Visiting Services for At-Risk Families
`SEC. 399. PROJECTS TO IMPROVE MATERNAL, INFANT, AND CHILD HEALTH.
 `(a) IN GENERAL-
 `(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM- The Secretary, acting through the Administrator
 of the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall make grants to
 eligible entities to pay the Federal share of the cost of providing the
 services specified in subsection (b) to families in which a member is--
 `(A) a pregnant woman at risk of delivering an infant with a health or
 developmental complication; or
 `(B) a child less than 3 years of age--
 `(i) who is experiencing or is at risk of a health or developmental
 complication, or of child abuse or neglect; or
 `(ii) who has been prenatally exposed to maternal substance abuse.
 `(2) MINIMUM PERIOD OF AWARDS; ADMINISTRATIVE CONSULTATIONS-
 `(A) The Secretary shall award grants under paragraph (1) for periods of
 at least three years.
 `(B) The Administrator of the Administration for Children, Youth, and Families
 and the Director of the National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality
 shall be consulted regarding the promulgation of program guidelines and
 funding priorities under this section.
 `(3) REQUIREMENT OF STATUS AS MEDICAID PROVIDER-
 `(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may make a grant under
 paragraph (1) only if, in the case of any service under such paragraph
 that is covered in the State plan approved under title XIX of the Social
 Security Act for the State involved--
 `(i) the entity involved will provide the service directly, and the entity
 has entered into a participation agreement under the State plan and is
 qualified to receive payments under such plan; or
 `(ii) the entity will enter into an agreement with an organization under which
 the organization will provide the service, and the organization has entered
 into such a participation agreement and is qualified to receive such payments.
 `(B)(i) In the case of an organization making an agreement under subparagraph
 (A)(ii) regarding the provision of services under paragraph (1), the
 requirement established in such subparagraph regarding a participation
 agreement shall be waived by the Secretary if the organization does not,
 in providing health or mental health services, impose a charge or accept
 reimbursement available from any third-party payor, including reimbursement
 under any insurance policy or under any Federal or State health benefits
 program.
 `(ii) A determination by the Secretary of whether an organization referred
 to in clause (i) meets the criteria for a waiver under such clause shall be
 made without regard to whether the organization accepts voluntary donations
 regarding the provision of services to the public.
 `(b) HOME VISITING SERVICES FOR ELIGIBLE FAMILIES- With respect to an
 eligible family, each of the following services shall, directly or through
 arrangement with other public or nonprofit private entities, be available
 (as applicable to the family member involved) in each project operated with
 a grant under subsection (a):
 `(1) Prenatal and postnatal health care.
 `(2) Primary health care for the children, including developmental
 assessments.
 `(3) Education for the parents concerning infant care and child development,
 including the development and utilization of parent and teacher resource
 networks and other family resource and support networks where such networks
 are available.
 `(4) Upon the request of a parent, providing the education described in
 paragraph (3) to other individuals who have responsibility for caring for
 the children.
 `(5) Education for the parents concerning behaviors that adversely affect
 health.
 `(6) Assistance in obtaining necessary health, mental health, developmental,
 social, housing, and nutrition services and other assistance, including
 services and other assistance under maternal and child health programs; the
 special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children; section
 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966; title V of the Social Security Act;
 title XIX of such Act (including the program for early and periodic screening,
 diagnostic, and treatment services described in section 1905(r) of such Act);
 titles IV and XIX of the Social Security Act; housing programs; other food
 assistance programs; and appropriate alcohol and drug dependency treatment
 programs, according to need.
 `(c) CONSIDERATIONS IN MAKING GRANTS- In awarding grants under subsection
 (a), the Secretary shall take into consideration--
 `(1) the ability of the entity involved to provide, either directly or
 through linkages, a broad range of preventive and primary health care
 services and related social, family support, and developmental services;
 `(2) different combinations of professional and lay home visitors utilized
 within programs that are reflective of the identified service needs and
 characteristics of target populations;
 `(3) the extent to which the population to be targeted has limited access
 to health care, and related social, family support, and developmental
 services; and
 `(4) whether such grants are equitably distributed among urban and rural
 settings and whether entities serving Native American communities are
 represented among the grantees.
 `(d) FEDERAL SHARE- With respect to the costs of carrying out a project
 under subsection (a), a grant under such subsection for the project may not
 exceed 90 percent of such costs. To be eligible to receive such a grant,
 an applicant must provide assurances that the applicant will obtain at least
 10 percent of such costs from non-Federal funds (and such contributions to
 such costs may be in cash or in-kind, including facilities and personnel).
 `(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING AT-RISK BIRTHS- For purposes of subsection
 (a)(1), a pregnant woman shall be considered to be at risk of delivering an
 infant with a health or developmental complication if during the pregnancy
 the woman--
 `(1) lacks appropriate access to, or information concerning, early and
 routine prenatal care;
 `(2) lacks the transportation necessary to gain access to the services
 described in subsection (b);
 `(3) lacks appropriate child care assistance, which results in impeding
 the ability of such woman to utilize health and related social services;
 `(4) is fearful of accessing substance abuse services or child and family
 support services; or
 `(5) is a minor with a low income.
 `(f) DELIVERY OF SERVICES AND CASE MANAGEMENT-
 `(1) CASE MANAGEMENT MODEL- Home visiting services provided under this
 section shall be delivered according to a case management model, and a
 registered nurse, licensed social worker, or other licensed health care
 professional with experience and expertise in providing health and related
 social services in home and community settings shall be assigned as the
 case manager for individual cases under such model.
 `(2) CASE MANAGER- A case manager assigned under paragraph (1) shall have
 primary responsibility for coordinating and overseeing the development
 of a plan for each family that is to receive home visiting services under
 this section, and for coordinating the delivery of such services provided
 through appropriate personnel.
 `(3) APPROPRIATE PERSONNEL- In determining which personnel shall be utilized
 in the delivery of services, the case manager shall consider--
 `(A) the stated objective of the project to be operated with the grant,
 as determined after considering identified gaps in the current service
 delivery system; and
 `(B) the nature of the needs of the family to be served, as determined at
 the initial assessment of the family that is conducted by the case manager,
 and through follow-up contacts by other providers of home visiting services.
 `(4) FAMILY SERVICE PLAN- A case manager, in consultation with a team
 established in accordance with paragraph (5) for the family involved, shall
 develop a plan for the family following the initial visit to the home of
 the family. Such plan shall reflect--
 `(A) an assessment of the health and related social service needs of
 the family;
 `(B) a structured plan for the delivery of home visiting services to meet
 the identified needs of the family;
 `(C) the frequency with which such services are to be provided to the family;
 `(D) ongoing revisions made as the needs of family members change; and
 `(E) the continuing voluntary participation of the family in the plan.
 `(5) HOME VISITING SERVICES TEAM- The team to be consulted under paragraph
 (4) on behalf of a family shall include, as appropriate, other nursing
 professionals, physician assistants, social workers, child welfare
 professionals, infant and early childhood specialists, nutritionists, and
 laypersons trained as home visitors. The case manager shall ensure that the
 plan is coordinated with those physician services that may be required by
 the mother or child.
 `(g) OUTREACH- Each grantee under subsection (a) shall provide outreach
 and casefinding services to inform eligible families of the availability
 of home visiting services from the project.
 `(h) CONFIDENTIALITY- In accordance with applicable State law, an entity
 receiving a grant under subsection (a) shall maintain confidentiality with
 respect to services provided to families under this section.
 `(i) CERTAIN ASSURANCES- The Secretary may award a grant under subsection
 (a) only if the entity involved provides assurances satisfactory to the
 Secretary that--
 `(1) the entity will provide home visiting services with reasonable
 frequency--
 `(A) to families with pregnant women, as early in the pregnancy as is
 practicable, and until the infant reaches at least 2 years of age; and
 `(B) to other eligible families, for at least 2 years; and
 `(2) the entity will coordinate with public health and related social
 service agencies to prevent duplication of effort and improve the delivery
 of comprehensive health and related social services.
 `(j) SUBMISSION TO SECRETARY OF CERTAIN INFORMATION- The Secretary may
 award a grant under subsection (a) only if the entity involved submits to
 the Secretary--
 `(1) a description of the population to be targeted for home visiting services
 and methods of outreach and casefinding for identifying eligible families,
 including the use of lay home visitors where appropriate;
 `(2) a description of the types and qualifications of home visitors used
 by the entity and the process by which the entity will provide continuing
 training  and sufficient support to the home visitors; and
 `(3) such other information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
 `(k) LIMITATION REGARDING ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES- Not more than 10 percent
 of a grant under subsection (a) may be expended for administrative expenses
 with respect to the grant. The costs of training individuals to serve in
 the project involved are not subject to the preceding sentence.
 `(l) RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF GRANT- To be eligible to receive a grant under
 this section, an entity must agree that the grant will not be expended--
 `(1) to provide inpatient hospital services;
 `(2) to make cash payments to intended recipients of services;
 `(3) to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or permanently improve
 (other than minor remodeling) any building or other facility, or purchase
 major medical equipment;
 `(4) to satisfy any requirement for the expenditure of non-Federal funds
 as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds; or
 `(5) to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or
 nonprofit private entity.
 `(m) REPORTS TO SECRETARY- To be eligible to receive a grant under this
 section, an entity must agree to submit an annual report on the services
 provided under this section to the Secretary in such manner and containing
 such information as the Secretary by regulation requires. At a minimum,
 the entity shall report information concerning eligible families, including--
 `(1) the characteristics of the families and children receiving services
 under this section;
 `(2) the usage, nature, and location of the provider, of preventive health
 services, including prenatal, primary infant, and child health care;
 `(3) the incidence of low birthweight and premature infants;
 `(4) the length of hospital stays for pre- and post-partum women and their
 children;
 `(5) the incidence of substantiated child abuse and neglect for all children
 within participating families;
 `(6) the number of emergency room visits for routine health care;
 `(7) the source of payment for health care services and the extent to which
 the utilization of health care services, other than routine screening and
 medical care, available to the individuals under the program established
 under title XIX of the Social Security Act, and under other Federal, State,
 and local programs, is reduced;
 `(8) the number and type of referrals made for health and related social
 services, including alcohol and drug treatment services, and the utilization
 of such services provided by the grantee; and
 `(9) the incidence of developmental disabilities.
 `(n) REQUIREMENT OF APPLICATION- The Secretary may make a grant under
 subsection (a) only if--
 `(1) an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary;
 `(2) the application contains the agreements and assurances required in
 this section, and the information required in subsection (j);
 `(3) the application contains evidence that the preparation of the application
 has been coordinated with the State agencies responsible for maternal and
 child health and child welfare, and coordinated with services provided
 under part H of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act; and
 `(4) the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains
 such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines
 to be necessary to carry out this section.
 `(o) PEER REVIEW-
 `(1) REQUIREMENT- In making determinations for awarding grants under
 subsection (a), the Secretary shall rely on the recommendations of the peer
 review panel established under paragraph (2).
 `(2) COMPOSITION- The Secretary shall establish a review panel to make
 recommendations under paragraph (1) that shall be composed of--
 `(A) national experts in the fields of maternal and child health, child abuse
 and neglect, and the provision of community-based primary health services; and
 `(B) representatives of relevant Federal agencies, including the Health
 Resources and Services Administration, the Substance Abuse and Mental
 Health Services Administration, the Administration for Children, Youth,
 and Families, the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect, and the
 National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality.
 `(p) EVALUATIONS-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall, directly or through contracts with
 public or private entities--
 `(A) conduct evaluations to determine the effectiveness of projects under
 subsection (a) in reducing the incidence of children born with health or
 developmental complications, the incidence among children less than 3 years of
 age of such complications, and the incidence of child abuse and neglect; and
 `(B) not less than once during each 3-year period, prepare and submit to
 the appropriate committees of Congress a report concerning the results of
 such evaluations.
 `(2) CONTENTS- The evaluations conducted under paragraph (1) shall--
 `(A) include a summary of the data contained in the annual reports submitted
 under subsection (m);
 `(B) assess the relative effectiveness of projects under subsection (a) in
 urban and rural areas, and among programs utilizing differing combinations
 of professionals and trained home visitors recruited from the community to
 meet the needs of defined target service populations; and
 `(C) make further recommendations necessary or desirable to increase the
 effectiveness of such projects.
 `(q) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section:
 `(1) The term `eligible entity' includes public and nonprofit private entities
 that provide health or related social services, including community-based
 organizations, visiting nurse organizations, hospitals, local health
 departments, community health centers, Native Hawaiian health centers,
 nurse managed clinics, family service agencies, child welfare agencies,
 developmental service providers, family resource and support programs,
 and resource mothers projects.
 `(2) The term `eligible family' means a family described in subsection (a).
 `(3) The term `health or developmental complication', with respect to a
 child, means--
 `(A) being born in an unhealthy or potentially unhealthy condition,
 including premature birth, low birthweight, and prenatal exposure to maternal
 substance abuse;
 `(B) a condition arising from a condition described in subparagraph (A);
 `(C) a physical disability or delay; and
 `(D) a developmental disability or delay.
 `(4) The term `home visiting services' means the services specified in
 subsection (b), provided at the residence of the eligible family involved or
 provided pursuant to arrangements made for the family (including arrangements
 for services in community settings).
 `(5) The term `home visitors' means providers of home visiting services.
 `(r) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- For the purpose of carrying out this
 section, there is authorized to be appropriated $30,000,000 for each of
 the fiscal years 1993 and 1994.'.
TITLE VI--TRAUMA CENTERS AND DRUG-RELATED VIOLENCE
SEC. 601. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAM OF GRANTS.
 Title XII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d et seq.), as
 added by section 3 of Public Law 101-590 (104 Stat. 2915), is amended by
 adding at the end the following new part:
`Part D--Trauma Centers Operating in Areas Severely Affected by Drug-Related
Violence
`SEC. 1241. GRANTS FOR CERTAIN TRAUMA CENTERS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make grants for the purpose of providing
 for the operating expenses of trauma centers that have incurred substantial
 uncompensated costs in providing trauma care in geographic areas with
 a significant incidence of violence arising directly or indirectly from
 illicit trafficking in drugs. Grants under this subsection may be made only
 to such trauma centers.
 `(b) MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS OF CENTERS-
 `(1) SIGNIFICANT INCIDENCE OF TREATING CERTAIN PATIENTS-
 `(A) The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) to a trauma
 center unless the population of patients that has been served by the center
 for the period specified in subparagraph (B) includes a significant number
 of patients who were treated for--
 `(i) trauma resulting from the penetration of the skin by knives, bullets,
 or any other implement that can be used as a weapon; or
 `(ii) trauma that the center reasonably believes results from violence
 arising directly or indirectly from illicit trafficking in drugs.
 `(B) The period specified in this subparagraph is the 2-year period preceding
 the fiscal year for which the trauma center involved is applying to receive
 a grant under subsection (a).
 `(2) PARTICIPATION IN TRAUMA CARE SYSTEM OPERATING UNDER CERTAIN PROFESSIONAL
 GUIDELINES- The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) unless
 the trauma center involved is a participant in a system that--
 `(A) provides comprehensive medical care to victims of trauma in the
 geographic area in which the trauma center is located;
 `(B) is established by the State or political subdivision in which such
 center is located; and
 `(C)(i) has adopted guidelines for the designation of trauma centers,
 and for triage, transfer, and transportation policies, equivalent to (or
 more protective than) the applicable guidelines developed by the American
 College of Surgeons or utilized in the model plan established under section
 1213(c); or
 `(ii) agrees that such guidelines will be adopted by the system not later
 than 6 months after the date on which the trauma center submits to the
 Secretary the application for the grant.
 `(3) SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL OF LONG-TERM PLAN- The Secretary may not make
 a grant under subsection (a) unless the trauma center involved--
 `(A) submits to the Secretary a plan satisfactory to the Secretary that--
 `(i) is developed on the assumption that the center will continue to incur
 substantial uncompensated costs in providing trauma care; and
 `(ii) provides for the long-term continued operation of the center with
 an acceptable standard of medical care, notwithstanding such uncompensated
 costs; and
 `(B) agrees to implement the plan according to a schedule approved by
 the Secretary.
`SEC. 1242. PREFERENCES IN MAKING GRANTS.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- In making grants under section 1241(a), the Secretary
 shall give preference to any application--
 `(1) made by a trauma center that, for the purpose specified in such section,
 will receive financial assistance from the State or political subdivision
 involved for each fiscal year during which payments are made to the center
 from the grant, which financial assistance is exclusive of any assistance
 provided by the State or political subdivision as a non-Federal contribution
 under any Federal program requiring such a contribution; or
 `(2) made by a trauma center that, with respect to the system described in
 section 1241(b)(2) in which the center is a participant--
 `(A) is providing trauma care in a geographic area in which the availability
 of trauma care has significantly decreased as a result of a trauma center
 in the area permanently ceasing participation in such system as of a date
 occurring during the 2-year period specified in section 1241(b)(1)(B); or
 `(B) will, in providing trauma care during the 1-year period beginning
 on the date on which the application for the grant is submitted, incur
 uncompensated costs in an amount rendering the center unable to continue
 participation in such system, resulting in a significant decrease in the
 availability of trauma care in the geographic area.
 `(b) FURTHER PREFERENCE FOR CERTAIN APPLICATIONS- With respect to applications
 for grants under section 1241 that are receiving preference for purposes
 of subsection (a), the Secretary shall give further preference to any such
 application made by a trauma center for which a disproportionate percentage
 of the uncompensated costs of the center result from the provision of trauma
 care to individuals who neither are citizens nor aliens lawfully admitted
 to the United States for permanent residence.
`SEC. 1243. CERTAIN AGREEMENTS.
 `(a) COMMITMENT REGARDING CONTINUED PARTICIPATION IN TRAUMA CARE SYSTEM-
 The Secretary may not make a grant under subsection (a) of section 1241
 unless the trauma center involved agrees that--
 `(1) the center will continue participation in the system described in
 subsection (b) of such section throughout the 3-year period beginning on
 the date that the center first receives payments under the grant; and
 `(2) if the agreement made pursuant to paragraph (1) is violated by the
 center, the center will be liable to the United States for an amount equal
 to the sum of--
 `(A) the amount of assistance provided to the center under subsection (a)
 of such section; and
 `(B) an amount representing interest on the amount specified in subparagraph
 (A).
 `(b) MAINTENANCE OF FINANCIAL SUPPORT- With respect to activities for which
 a grant under section 1241 is authorized to be expended, the Secretary
 may not make such a grant unless the trauma center involved agrees that,
 during the period in which the center is receiving payments under the grant,
 the center will maintain expenditures for such activities at a level that
 is not less than the level maintained by the center during the fiscal year
 preceding the first fiscal year for which the center receives such payments.
 `(c) TRAUMA CARE REGISTRY- The Secretary may not make a grant under section
 1241(a) unless the trauma center involved agrees that--
 `(1) the center will operate a registry of trauma cases in accordance with
 the applicable guidelines described in section 1241(b)(2)(C), and will
 begin operation of the registry not later than 6 months after the date on
 which the center submits to the Secretary the application for the grant; and
 `(2) in carrying out paragraph (1), the center will maintain information on
 the number of trauma cases treated by the center and, for each such case,
 the extent to which the center incurs uncompensated costs in providing
 trauma care.
`SEC. 1244. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
 `(a) APPLICATION- The Secretary may not make a grant under section 1241(a)
 unless an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the
 application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such
 agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be
 necessary to carry out this part.
 `(b) LIMITATION ON DURATION OF SUPPORT- The period during which a trauma
 center receives payments under section 1241(a) may not exceed 3 fiscal years,
 except that the Secretary may waive such requirement for the center and
 authorize the center to receive such payments for 1 additional fiscal year.
 `(c) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF GRANT- A grant under section 1241 may not be
 made in an amount exceeding $2,000,000.
`SEC. 1245. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `For the purpose of carrying out this part, there are authorized to be
 appropriated $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be
 necessary for fiscal year 1994. Such authorization of appropriations is in
 addition to any other authorization of appropriations or amounts that are
 available for such purpose.'.
SEC. 602. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 Title XII of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300d et seq.) is
 amended--
 (1) in the heading for part C, by inserting `REGARDING PARTS A AND B' after
 `PROVISIONS';
 (2) in section 1231, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
 `this title' and inserting `this part and parts A and B'; and
 (3) in section 1232(a), by striking `this title' and inserting `parts A
 and B'.
TITLE VII--STUDIES
SEC. 701. REPORT BY THE INSTITUTE ON MEDICINE.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall enter into
 a contract with a public or nonprofit private entity to conduct a study
 concerning--
 (1) the role of the private sector in the development of anti-addiction
 medications, including legislative proposals designed to encourage private
 sector development of such medications;
 (2) the process by which anti-addiction medications receive marketing
 approval from the Food and Drug Administration, including an assessment of
 the feasibility of expediting the marketing approval process in a manner
 consistent with maintaining the safety and effectiveness of such medications;
 (3) with respect to pharmacotherapeutic treatments for drug addiction--
 (A) recommendations with respect to a national strategy for developing such
 treatments and improvements in such strategy;
 (B) the state of the scientific knowledge concerning such treatments; and
 (C) an assessment of the progress toward the development of safe, effective
 pharmacological treatments for drug addiction; and
 (4) other related information determined appropriate by the authors of
 the study.
 (b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- The Secretary of Health and Human
 Services shall request the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy
 of Sciences to enter into the contract under subsection (a) to conduct the
 study described in such subsection. If such Academy declines to conduct
 the study, the Secretary shall carry out such subsection through another
 public or nonprofit private entity.
 (c) REPORT- The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall ensure that,
 not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the study
 required in subsection (a) is completed and a report describing the findings
 made as a result of the study is submitted to the Committee on Energy and
 Commerce of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Labor and
 Human Resources of the Senate.
 (d) AVAILABILITY- The report prepared under subsection (c) shall be made
 available for use by the general public.
SEC. 702. SENSE OF THE SENATE.
 It is the sense of the Senate that the Medications Development Division
 of the National Institute on Drug Abuse shall devote special attention and
 adequate resources to achieve the following urgent goals--
 (1) the development of medications in addition to methadone;
 (2) the development of a long-acting narcotic antagonist;
 (3) the development of agents for the treatment of cocaine abuse and
 dependency, including those that act as a narcotic antagonist;
 (4) the development of medications to treat addiction to drugs that are
 becoming increasingly prevalent, such as methamphetamine;
 (5) the development of additional medications to treat safely pregnant
 addicts and their fetuses; and
 (6) the development of medications to treat the offspring of addicted mothers.
SEC. 703. PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS IN CORRECTIONAL
FACILITIES.
 Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
 Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of the
 Center for Mental Health Services, shall prepare and submit to the appropriate
 committees of Congress a report concerning the most effective methods for
 providing mental health services to individuals who come into contact with
 the criminal justice system, including those individuals incarcerated in
 correctional facilities (including local jails and detention facilities),
 and the obstacles to providing such services. Such study shall be carried
 out in consultation with the National Institute of Mental Health, the
 Department of Justice, and other appropriate public and private entities.
SEC. 704. STUDY OF BARRIERS TO INSURANCE COVERAGE OF TREATMENT FOR MENTAL
ILLNESS AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through
 the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health and in consultation
 with the Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration, shall
 conduct a study of the barriers to insurance coverage for the treatment of
 mental illness and substance abuse. The study shall include--
 (1) an assessment of the effect of managed care on the quality and financing
 of such treatment;
 (2) an assessment of the appropriateness and cost effectiveness of treatment
 provided in non-profit, non-hospital settings; and
 (3) an assessment of the need for equitable coverage of severe mental
 illnesses as part of national health care reform.
 (b) ASSESSMENT REGARDING MENTAL ILLNESS- In making an assessment under
 paragraph (3) of subsection (a), the study required in such subsection
 shall provide for the following:
 (1) The clarification of what is meant by mental health coverage
 differentiating between the need of individuals with severe, long-term mental
 illnesses and individuals with mental health problems of situational nature.
 (2) Identification of the particular treatments and services required by
 persons with severe mental illnesses to maintain optimum functioning in
 the community.
 (3) Evaluation of various approaches to providing equitable coverage
 of severe mental illnesses in private insurance and public health care
 financing programs. These approaches should include the following:
 (A) The diagnostic approach as exemplified by certain State legislation
 (e.g., California State Code, section 101123.15; Texas Employers Uniform Group
 Insurance Benefits Act, section 11.106-11.113 (Insurance for Serious Mental
 Illnesses); and Maine, H.P. 1064: An Act to provide equitable insurance
 coverage for mental illnesses).
 (B) The Service-Based Approach, as exemplified in the Model Mental Health
 Benefit developed the auspices of NIMH Grant MH43703.
 (C) The Functional (Severity of Disability) Approach.
 (4) Evaluation of the cost benefit to insurers and the Federal Government
 of providing equal coverage for severe mental illness.
 (5) Financing mechanisms for coverage of the rehabilitative and long-term
 care needs of persons with severe mental illnesses.
 (c) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than October 1, 1993, the Secretary shall
 complete the study required in subsection (a) and submit to the Committee
 on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee
 on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report describing the findings
 made as a result of the study.
SEC. 705. STUDY ON FETAL ALCOHOL EFFECT AND FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section
 referred to as the `Secretary') shall enter into a contract with a public
 or nonprofit private entity to conduct a study on the prevalence of fetal
 alcohol effect and fetal alcohol syndrome in the general population of the
 United States and on the adequacy of Federal efforts to reduce the incidence
 of such conditions (including efforts regarding appropriate training for
 health care providers in identifying such effect or syndrome). The Secretary
 shall ensure that the study--
 (1) describes diagnostic tools for identifying such conditions;
 (2) compares the rate of each of such conditions with the rates of other
 drug-related congenital conditions;
 (3) evaluates the effectiveness and availability of treatment for such
 conditions; and
 (4) evaluates the plans of Federal agencies to conduct research on such
 conditions and determines the adequacy of such plans in relation to the
 impact on public health of the conditions.
 (b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- The Secretary shall request the National
 Academy of Sciences to enter into the contract under subsection (a) to
 conduct the study described in such subsection. If such Academy declines
 to conduct the study, the Secretary shall carry out such subsection through
 another public or nonprofit private entity.
 (c) REPORT- The Secretary shall ensure that, not later than 18 months after
 the date of the enactment of this Act, the study required in subsection (a)
 is completed and a report describing the findings made as a result of the
 study is submitted to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
 of Representatives and to the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of
 the Senate.
SEC. 706. STUDY BY NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In the case of programs in the United States that provide
 both sterile hypodermic needles and bleach to individuals in order to provide
 for a reduction in the risk of the individuals contracting acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome or related conditions, the Secretary of Health and Human
 Services (in this section referred to as the `Secretary'), acting through
 the Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, shall enter into a
 contract with a public or nonprofit private entity, subject to subsection
 (b), for the purpose of conducting a study or studies to make determinations
 of the following:
 (1) The extent to which the programs promote, directly or indirectly,
 the abuse of drugs through providing information or devices (or both)
 regarding the manner in which the adverse health consequences of such abuse
 can be minimized.
 (2) In the case of individuals participating in the programs, the number
 of individuals who have engaged in the abuse of drugs prior to admission
 to the programs and the number of individuals who have not engaged in such
 abuse prior to such admission.
 (3) The extent to which participation in the programs has altered any
 behaviors constituting a substantial risk of contracting acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome or hepatitis, or of transmitting either of the diseases.
 (4) The number of programs that provide referrals for the treatment of such
 abuse and the number of programs that do not provide such referrals.
 (5) The extent to which programs safely dispose of used hypodermic syringes
 and needles.
 (b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- The Secretary shall request the National
 Academy of Sciences to enter into the contract under subsection (a) to
 conduct the study or studies described in such subsection. If such Academy
 declines to conduct the study, the Secretary shall carry out such subsection
 through other public or nonprofit private entities.
 (c) LIMITATION REGARDING EXISTING PROGRAMS- The study required in subsection
 (a) may not be conducted with respect to programs established after the
 date of the enactment of this Act.
 (d) DATE FOR COMPLETION- The Secretary shall ensure that, not later than 18
 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the study required in
 subsection (a) is completed and a report describing the findings made as a
 result of the study is submitted to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
 of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Labor and Human
 Resources of the Senate.
 (e) FUNDING- Of the aggregate amounts appropriated under the Public Health
 Service Act for fiscal years 1993 and 1994 for research on drug abuse,
 the Secretary shall make available $5,000,000 for conducting the study
 required in subsection (a).
SEC. 707. REPORT ON ALLOTMENT FORMULA.
 (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this section
 referred to as the `Secretary') shall enter into a contract with a public
 or nonprofit private entity, subject to subsection (b), for the purpose
 of conducting a study or studies concerning the statutory formulae under
 which funds made available under sections 1911 and 1921 of the Public Health
 Service Act are allocated among the States and territories. Such study or
 studies shall include--
 (1) an assessment of the degree to which the formula allocates funds
 according to the respective needs of the States and territories;
 (2) a review of relevant epidemiological research regarding the incidence of
 substance abuse and mental illness among various age groups and geographic
 regions of the country;
 (3) the identification of factors not included in the formula that are
 reliable predictors of the incidence of substance abuse and mental illness;
 (4) an assessment of the validity and relevance of factors currently included
 in the formula, such as age, urban population and cost; and
 (5) any other information that would contribute to a thorough assessment
 of the appropriateness of the current formula.
 (b) NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES- The Secretary shall request the National
 Academy of Sciences to enter into the contract under subsection (a) to
 conduct the study described in such subsection. If such Academy declines
 to conduct the study, the Secretary shall carry out such subsection through
 another public or nonprofit private entity.
 (c) REPORT- The Secretary shall ensure that not later than 6 months after
 the date of enactment of this Act, the study required under subsection (a)
 is completed and a report describing the findings made as a result of such
 study is submitted to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
 Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate.
 (d) CONSULTATION- The entity preparing the report required under subsection
 (c), shall consult with the Comptroller General of the United States. The
 Comptroller General shall review the study after its transmittal to
 the committees described in subsection (c) and within three months make
 appropriate recommendations concerning such report to such committees.
SEC. 708. REPORT BY SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) INTERIM REPORT- Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment
 of this Act, the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
 Services Administration shall compile and directly transmit to the Committee
 on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee
 on Labor and Human Resources of the Senate an interim report that includes
 the following information:
 (1) A compilation and summary of the scientific literature and research
 concerning the provision of health insurance, by both public and private
 entities, for substance abuse (including alcohol abuse) and mental health
 services.
 (2) A review of the scientific literature evaluating the medical effectiveness
 of substance abuse (including alcohol abuse) and mental health services.
 (3) An examination of past practices and emerging trends of health insurance
 coverage for substance abuse (including alcohol abuse) and mental health
 services, including an examination of trends in copayments, lifetime coverage
 maximums, number of visits, and inclusion or exclusion of such services.
 (4) An identification of issues attendant to and analysis of barriers to
 health insurance coverage for substance abuse (including alcohol abuse)
 and mental illness services. Such analysis shall include a discussion of how
 substance abuse (including alcohol abuse) and mental health services would
 be affected by the various health care reform under consideration in Congress.
 (5) An examination of the issues attendant to limitations placed on
 the use of Medicaid program funds for adults receiving substance abuse
 (including alcoholism services) and mental health services in intermediate
 care residential settings.
 (b) FINAL REPORT- Not later than October 1, 1993, such Administrator shall
 compile and transmit directly to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
 the House of Representatives and the Committee on Labor and Human Resources
 of the Senate a report that identifies the relevant policy issues and
 research questions that need to be answered to address current barriers
 to the provision of substance abuse and mental health services. The
 Administrator shall design a research and demonstration strategy that
 examines such barriers and tests alternative solutions to the problems of
 providing health insurance and treatment services for substance abuse and
 mental health services. As soon as practicable but not later than January
 1, 1994, the Secretary shall initiate research and demonstration projects
 that, consistent with the information contained in the reports required
 under this section, will study the issues identified with, and possible
 alternative mechanisms of, providing health insurance and treatment services
 for substance abuse (including alcohol abuse) and mental illness.
TITLE VIII--GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 801. EFFECTIVE DATES.
(a) IN GENERAL- This Act takes effect on the date of the enactment of this
Act, subject to subsections (b) through (d).
(b) AMENDMENTS- The amendments described in this Act are made on the date of
the enactment of this Act and take effect on such date, except as provided
in subsections (c) and (d).
(c) REORGANIZATION UNDER TITLE I- Title I takes effect on October 1, 1992. The
amendments described in such title are made on such date and take effect on
such date.
(d) PROGRAMS PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE-
 (1) FISCAL YEAR 1993 AND SUBSEQUENT YEARS- In the case of any program making
 awards of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts, the amendments made
 by this Act are effective for awards made on or after October 1, 1992.
 (2) PRIOR FISCAL YEARS-
 (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), in the case of any program making
 awards of grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts, if the program began
 operation prior to the date of the enactment of this Act and the program is
 amended by this Act, awards made prior to October 1, 1992, shall continue
 to be subject to the terms and conditions upon which such awards were made,
 notwithstanding the amendments made by this Act.
 (B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply with respect to the amendments made by
 this Act to part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act. Section
 205(a) applies with respect to the program established in such part.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.