 
--S.1439--
S.1439
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize and direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey certain
lands in
Livingston Parish, Louisiana, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--LAND CONVEYANCE
SEC. 101. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds and declares that--
  (1) there is a history of adverse claims and title confusion relating to
  certain lands in Livingston Parish, Louisiana, arising from private land
  claims predating the Louisiana Purchase;
  (2) numerous parties have in good faith placed valuable improvements upon
  such lands in the belief that they owned such lands; and
  (3) the public interest will be best served by clarifying the uncertainty
  of title by conveying the interest of the United States in such lands to
  those affected parties.
SEC. 102. CONVEYANCE OF LANDS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, and subject
  to the reservation in subsection (b), the United States hereby grants all
  right, title, and interest of the United States in and to certain lands
  in Livingston Parish, Louisiana, as described in section 103, to those
  parties who, as of the date of enactment of this Act, would be recognized
  as holders of a right, title, or interest to any portion of such lands
  under the laws of the State of Louisiana, but for the interest of the
  United States in such lands.
  (b) RESERVATION OF MINERAL RIGHTS- The United States hereby excepts
  and reserves from the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, all
  minerals underlying such lands, along with the right to prospect for,
  mine, and remove the minerals under applicable law and such regulations
  as the Secretary of the Interior may prescribe.
SEC. 103. DESCRIPTION OF LANDS TO BE CONVEYED.
  The lands to be conveyed pursuant to this title are those lands located
  in section 37, township 5 south, range 4 east, St. Helena Meridian, in
  Livingston Parish, Louisiana.
TITLE II--PORT CHICAGO NATIONAL MEMORIAL
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be referred to as the `Port Chicago National Memorial Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 202. FINDINGS.
  The Congress hereby finds that--
  (1) the Port Chicago Naval Magazine, located in Contra Costa County,
  California, served as the major West Coast munitions supply facility during
  World War II, during which time the facility played a critical role in
  the success of the war effort;
  (2) on July 17, 1944, an explosion at Port Chicago, the origin of which has
  never been determined, resulted in the deaths of 320 officers and sailors,
  the largest domestic loss of life during World War II, and the injury of
  many others; and
  (3) it is fitting and appropriate that the site of the Port Chicago Naval
  Magazine, which is currently included in the Concord Naval Weapons Station,
  be designated as a National Memorial to commemorate the role of the facility
  during World War II, to recognize those who served at the facility, and
  to honor the memory of those who gave their lives and were injured in the
  explosion on July 17, 1944.
SEC. 203. PORT CHICAGO NATIONAL MEMORIAL.
  (a) DESIGNATION- In order to recognize the critical role Port Chicago,
  located at the Concord Naval Weapons Station in Contra Costa County,
  California, played in the Second World War by serving as the main facility
  for the Pacific Theater and the historic importance of the explosion
  which occurred at the Port Chicago Naval Magazine on July 17, 1944, such
  Naval Magazine is hereby designated as a National Memorial, to be known
  as the Port Chicago Naval Magazine National Memorial. The Secretary of
  the Interior shall take appropriate action to assure that the Memorial is
  announced in the Federal Register and that official records and lists are
  amended, in due course, to reflect the inclusion of this memorial along
  with other national memorials established by an Act of Congress.
  (b) MARKER- The Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the
  Secretary of Defense, is authorized and directed to place at the site the
  Port Chicago Naval Magazine National Memorial, as designated under subsection
  (a), an appropriate plaque or marker commemorating the critical role Port
  Chicago played in the Second World War and the historic importance of the
  explosion which occurred at that location on July 17, 1944. The plaque or
  marker shall include a listing of the names of those who lost their lives
  during the explosion.
  (c) PUBLIC ACCESS- The Secretary of the Interior shall enter into a
  cooperative agreement with the Secretary of the Navy to provide for public
  access to the Memorial.
SEC. 204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to
  carry out this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.