 
--S.1415--
 S.1415
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for additional membership on the Library of Congress Trust Fund
Board, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ADDITIONAL MEMBERSHIP ON THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS TRUST FUND BOARD.
 The first sentence of the first paragraph of the first section of the Act
 entitled `An Act to create a Library of Congress Trust Fund Board, and for
 other purposes', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 154) is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' after `Librarian of Congress,'; and
 (2) by inserting after `respectively)' the following: `, four persons
 appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives (in consultation
 with the minority leader of the House of Representatives) for a term of
 five years each (the first appointments being for two, three, four, and five
 years, respectively), and four persons appointed by the majority leader of
 the Senate (in consultation with the minority leader of the Senate) for a
 term of five years each (the first appointments being for two, three, four,
 and five years, respectively)'.
SEC. 2. QUORUM PROVISION.
 The second sentence of the first paragraph of the first section of the
 Act entitled `An Act to create a Library of Congress Trust Fund Board,
 and for other purposes', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 154) is amended
 by striking `Three' and inserting `Nine'.
SEC. 3. TEMPORARY POSSESSION OF GIFTS.
 Section 2 of the Act entitled `An Act to create a Library of Congress Trust
 Fund Board, and for other purposes', approved March 3, 1925 (2 U.S.C. 156,
 157, and 158) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new
 undesignated paragraph:
 `In the case of a gift of money or securities offered to the Library
 of Congress, if, because of conditions attached by the donor or similar
 considerations, expedited action is necessary, the Librarian of Congress may
 take temporary possession of the gift, subject to approval under the first
 paragraph of this section. The gift shall be receipted for and invested,
 reinvested, or retained as provided in the second paragraph of this section,
 except that--
 `(1) a gift of securities may not be invested or reinvested; and
 `(2) any investment or reinvestment of a gift of money shall be made in an
 interest bearing obligation of the United States or an obligation guaranteed
 as to principal and interest by the United States.
If the gift is not so approved within the 12-month period after the Librarian
so takes possession, the principal of the gift shall be returned to the
donor and any income earned during that period shall be available for use
with respect to the Library of Congress as provided by law.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.