 
--S.1569--
S.1569
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To implement the recommendations of the Federal Courts Study Committee, and
for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Federal Courts Administration Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--IMPLEMENTATION OF FEDERAL COURTS STUDY COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATIONS
SEC. 101. SUPREME COURT AUTHORITY TO PRESCRIBE RULES FOR APPEAL OF
INTERLOCUTORY DECISIONS.
  Section 1292 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following new subsection:
  `(e) The Supreme Court may prescribe rules, in accordance with section 2072
  of this title, to provide for an appeal of an interlocutory decision to the
  courts of appeals that is not otherwise provided for under subsection (a),
  (b), (c), or (d).'.
SEC. 102. ABOLITION OF TEMPORARY EMERGENCY COURT OF APPEALS.
  (a) APPEALS UNDER ECONOMIC STABILIZATION ACT- Section 211 of the Economic
  Stabilization Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-379; 84 Stat. 799) is amended by
  striking subsections (b) through (h) and inserting the following:
  `(b) Appeals from orders or judgments entered by a district court of the
  United States in cases and controversies arising under this title shall be
  brought in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit if the
  appeal is from a final decision of the district court or is an interlocutory
  appeal permitted under section 1292(c) of title 28, United States Code.'.
  (b) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF EMERGENCY ORDERS UNDER THE NATURAL GAS POLICY ACT-
  Section 506(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3416(c))
  is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by striking `the Temporary Emergency Court of
  Appeals, established pursuant to section 211(b) of the Economic Stabilization
  Act of 1970, as amended,' and inserting `the United States Court of Appeals
  for the Federal Circuit'; and
  (2) by striking `Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals' each place it appears
  and inserting `United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 1295(a) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (9);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (10) and inserting a
  semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(11) of an appeal under section 211 of the Economic Stabilization Act
  of 1970;
  `(12) of an appeal under section 5 of the Emergency Petroleum Allocation
  Act of 1973;
  `(13) of an appeal under section 506(c) of the Natural Gas Policy Act of
  1978; and
  `(14) of an appeal under section 523 of the Energy Policy and Conservation
  Act.'.
  (d) ABOLITION OF COURT- The Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals created
  by section 211(b) of the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970 is abolished,
  effective 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
  (e) PENDING CASES- (1) Any appeal which, before the effective date of
  abolition described in subsection (d),  is pending in the Temporary Emergency
  Court of Appeals but has not been submitted to a panel of such court as of
  that date shall be assigned to the United States Court of Appeals for the
  Federal Circuit as though the appeal had originally been filed in that court.
  (2) Any case which, before the effective date of abolition described in
  subsection (d), has been submitted to a panel of the Temporary Emergency
  Court of Appeals and as to which the mandate has not been issued as of that
  date shall remain with that panel for all purposes and, notwithstanding
  the provisions of sections 291 and 292 of title 28, United States Code,
  that panel shall be assigned to the United States Court of Appeals for
  the Federal Circuit for the purpose of deciding such case.
SEC. 103. JURISDICTION OF MAGISTRATE JUDGES TO MODIFY OR REVOKE PROBATION
OR SUPERVISED RELEASE AFTER IMPRISONMENT.
  Section 3401 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in subsection (d) by striking `and to revoke or reinstate the probation
  of any person granted probation by him.' and inserting `and to revoke,
  modify, or reinstate the probation of any person granted probation by a
  magistrate judge.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(h) The magistrate judge shall have power to modify, revoke, or terminate
  supervised release of any person sentenced to a term of supervised release
  by a magistrate judge.
  `(i) A district judge may designate a magistrate judge to conduct
  hearings to modify, revoke, or terminate supervised release, including
  evidentiary hearings, and to submit to the judge proposed findings of fact
  and recommendations for such modification, revocation, or termination by
  the judge, including, in the case of revocation, a recommended disposition
  under section 3583(e) of this title. The magistrate judge shall file his
  or her proposed findings and recommendations.'.
SEC. 104. INTERCIRCUIT TRANSFERS.
  Section 291(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended to read as
  follows:
  `(a) The Chief Justice of the United States may, in the public interest,
  designate and assign temporarily any circuit judge to act as circuit judge
  in another circuit upon request by the chief judge or circuit justice of
  such circuit.'.
TITLE II--JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 201. JUDICIAL SURVIVORS' ANNUITIES AMENDMENTS.
  (a) ELECTION- Section 376(a)(1) of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  in the matter following subparagraph (G)--
  (1) by striking `or' at the end of clause (v); and
  (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end of clause (vi) `, or (vii)
  the date of the enactment of the Federal Courts Administration Act of 1992'.
  (b) CONTRIBUTIONS- Section 376(b) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(b)';
  (2) in the first sentence by striking `including any `retirement salary',
  a sum equal to 5 percent of that salary.' and inserting `a sum equal to
  2.2 percent of that salary, and a sum equal to 3.5 percent of his or her
  retirement salary. The deduction from any retirement salary--
  `(A) of a justice or judge of the United States retired from regular active
  service who is described in section 371(b)(1) of this title,
  `(B) of a justice or judge of the United States retired under section
  372(a) of this title who is willing and able to perform judicial duties
  in accordance with section 294 of this title,
  `(C) of a judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims retired under
  section 178 (a) or (b) of this title who meets the requirements of section
  178(d) of this title, or
  `(D) of a judicial official on recall under section 155(b), 797, 373(c)(4),
  375, or 636(h) of this title,
shall be an amount equal to 2.2 percent of retirement salary.';
  (3) by redesignating all that follows the first sentence (as amended by
  paragraph (2) of this subsection) as paragraph (3) and inserting before
  such paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
  `(2) A judicial official who is not entitled to receive an immediate
  retirement salary upon leaving office but who is eligible to receive a
  deferred retirement salary on a later date shall file, within 90 days
  before leaving office, a written notification of his or her intention
  to remain within the purview of this section under such conditions and
  procedures as may be determined by the Director of the Administrative
  Office of the United States Courts. Every judicial official who files a
  written notification in accordance with this paragraph shall be deemed to
  consent to contribute, during the period before such a judicial official
  begins to receive his or her retirement salary, a sum equal to 3.5 percent
  of the deferred retirement salary which that judicial official is entitled
  to receive. Any judicial official who fails to file a written notification
  under this paragraph shall be deemed to have revoked his or her election
  under subsection (a) of this section.'; and
  (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection,
  by striking `so deducted and withheld from the salary of each such judicial
  official' and inserting `deducted and withheld from the salary of each
  judicial official under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection'.
  (c) DEPOSITS- Section 376(d) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `5 percent' and inserting `3.5 percent'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2) by striking `5 percent' and inserting `3.5 percent'.
  (d) REFUND OF DEPOSITS- Section 376(g) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(g) If any judicial official leaves office and is ineligible to receive a
  retirement salary or leaves office and is entitled to a deferred retirement
  salary but fails to make an election under subsection (b)(2) of this section,
  all amounts credited to his or her account established under subsection
  (e), together with interest at 4 percent per annum to December 31, 1947,
  and at 3 percent per annum thereafter, compounded on December 31 of each
  year, to the date of his or her relinquishment of office, minus a sum equal
  to 2.2 percent of salary for service while deductions were withheld under
  subsection (b) or for which a deposit was made by the judicial official
  under subsection (d), shall be returned to that judicial official in a
  lump-sum payment within a reasonable period of time following the date of
  his or her relinquishment of office. For the purposes of this section, a
  `reasonable period of time' shall be presumed to be no longer than 1 year
  following the date upon which such judicial official relinquishes his or
  her office.'.
  (e) PAYMENT OF ANNUITIES- Section 376(h)(1) of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `or while receiving `retirement salary,'
  ' and inserting `while receiving retirement salary, or after filing an
  election and otherwise complying with the conditions under subsection
  (b)(2) of this section'.
  (f) CREDITABLE SERVICE- Section 376(k) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (3) by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period and inserting `, and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5) those years during which such judicial official had deductions withheld
  from his or her retirement salary in accordance with subsection (b) (1)
  or (2) of this section.'.
  (g) COMPUTATION OF ANNUITY- Section 376(l) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `(i) during those three years of such
  service in which his or her annual salary' and inserting `(i) during those
  three years of such service, or during those three years while receiving
  a retirement salary, in which his or her annual salary or retirement
  salary'; and
  (2) in paragraph (1) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph
  (E) and inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
  `(D) the number of years during which the judicial official had deductions
  withheld from his or her retirement salary under subsection (b) (1) or
  (2) of this section; plus'.
  (h) TERMINATION- Section 376 of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  by adding at the end of that section the following new subsection:
  `(v) Subject to the terms of a decree, court order, or agreement described
  in subsection (t)(1), if any judicial official ceases to be married
  after making the election under subsection (a), he or she may revoke such
  election in writing by notifying the Director of the Administrative Office
  of the United States Courts. The judicial official shall also notify any
  spouse or former spouse of the application for revocation in accordance
  with such requirements as the Director of the Administrative Office of
  the United States Courts shall by regulation prescribe. The Director may
  provide under such regulations that the notification requirement may be
  waived with respect to a spouse or former spouse if the judicial official
  establishes to the satisfaction of the Director that the whereabouts of
  such spouse or former spouse cannot be determined.'.
  (i) ADJUSTMENT OF CONTRIBUTION RATE- Section 376 of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended by adding at the end of that section the following new
  subsection:
  `(w) The Comptroller General of the United States shall, at the end of
  each 3-fiscal year period, determine whether the contributions by judicial
  officials under subsection (b) during that 3-year period accounted for
  50 percent of the costs of the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund and if
  not, then what adjustments in the contribution rates under subsection (b)
  should be made to achieve that 50 percent figure. The Comptroller General
  shall report the results of each determination under this subsection to
  the Congress.'.
  (j) CREDIT FOR PRIOR CONTRIBUTIONS AT HIGHER RATE- Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, the contribution under section 376(b) (1) or (2) of
  title 28, United States Code (as amended by this section), of any judicial
  official who is within the purview of such section 376 on the effective
  date of this title shall be reduced by 0.5 percent for a period of time
  equal to the number of years of service for which the judicial official
  has made contributions or deposits before the enactment of this Act to
  the credit of the Judicial Survivors' Annuities Fund or for 18 months,
  whichever is less, if such contributions or deposits were never returned
  to the judicial official. For purposes of this subsection, the term `years'
  shall mean full years and twelfth parts thereof.
  (k) REDEPOSIT OF PRIOR CONTRIBUTIONS- Any judicial official as defined
  in section 376(a)(1) of title 28, United States Code, who makes an
  election under section 376(b) of title 28, United States Code, may make
  a redeposit, as required by section 7 of Public Law 94-554 and section
  2(c)(2) of Public Law 99-336, to the credit of the Judicial Survivors'
  Annuities Fund in installments, in such amounts and under such conditions
  as may be determined in each instance by the Director of the Administrative
  Office of the United States Courts. If a judicial official elects to make
  a redeposit in installments--
  (1) the Director shall require that the first installment payment made shall
  be in an amount no smaller than the last 18 months of salary deductions
  or deposits previously returned to that judicial official in a lump-sum
  payment; and
  (2) the election under section 376(b) of title 28, United States Code,
  shall be effective upon payment of the first such installment.
  (l) AUDIT BY GAO- The Comptroller General shall--
  (1) conduct an audit of the judicial survivors annuities program under
  section 376 of title 28, United States Code, for the 3-year period beginning
  on the date of the enactment of this Act; and
  (2) report to the Congress, not later than 60 days after the end of that
  3-year period, on the results of such audit, comparing such program to
  other survivors annuities programs within the Federal Government.
SEC. 202. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  This title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect on the
  date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE III--JUDICIAL FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 301. AWARD OF FILING FEES IN FAVOR OF THE UNITED STATES.
  (a) ACTIONS COMMENCED BY THE UNITED STATES- Section 2412(a) of title 28,
  United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) A judgment for costs, when awarded in favor of the United States in
  an action brought by the United States, may include an amount equal to the
  filing fee prescribed under section 1914(a) of this title. The preceding
  sentence shall not be construed as requiring the United States to pay any
  filing fee.'.
  (b) DISPOSITION OF FILING FEES- Section 1931 of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `The following' and all that follows through
  the end and inserting the following:
  `(a) Of the amounts paid to the clerk of court as a fee under section 1914(a)
  or as part of a judgment for costs under section 2412(a)(2) of this title,
  $60 shall be deposited into a special fund of the Treasury to be available
  to offset funds appropriated for the operation and maintenance of the
  courts of the United States.
  `(b) If the court authorizes a fee under section 1914(a) or an amount
  included in a judgment for costs under section 2412(a)(2) of this title
  of less than $120, the entire fee or amount, up to $60, shall be deposited
  into the special fund provided in this section.'.
TITLE IV--JURY MATTERS
SEC. 401. JURY SELECTION.
  Section 1863(b)(2) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding
  at the end the following: `The plan for the district of Massachusetts may
  require the names of prospective jurors to be selected from the resident
  list provided for in chapter 234A, Massachusetts General Laws, or comparable
  authority, rather than from voter lists.'.
SEC. 402. GRAND JURY TRAVEL.
  Section 1871(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5) A grand juror who travels to district court pursuant to a summons may
  be paid the travel expenses provided under this section or, under guidelines
  established by the Judicial Conference, the actual reasonable costs of travel
  by aircraft when travel by other means is not feasible and when certified
  by the chief judge of the district court in which the grand juror serves.'.
SEC. 403. PERMANENT AUTHORIZATION FOR OPTIONAL USE OF NEW JURY SELECTION
PROCESS.
  (a) AUTHORITY TO USE ONE-STEP PROCEDURE- Section 1878 of title 28, United
  States Code, is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 1878. Optional use of a one-step summoning and qualification procedure
  `(a) At the option of each district court, jurors may be summoned and
  qualified in a single procedure, if the court's jury selection plan so
  authorizes, in lieu of the two separate procedures otherwise provided
  for by this chapter. Courts shall ensure that a one-step summoning and
  qualification procedure conducted under this section does not violate the
  policies and objectives set forth in sections 1861 and 1862 of this title.
  `(b) Jury selection conducted under this section shall be subject to
  challenge under section 1867 of this title for substantial failure to
  comply with the provisions of this title in selecting the jury. However,
  no challenge under section 1867 of this title shall lie solely on the
  basis that a jury was selected in accordance with a one-step summoning
  and qualification procedure authorized by this section.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The item relating to section 1878 in the table
  of sections for chapter 121 is amended to read as follows:
`1878. Optional use of a one-step summoning and qualification procedure.'.
  (c) SAVINGS PROVISION- For courts participating in the experiment authorized
  under section 1878 of title 28, United States Code (as in effect before
  the effective date of this section), the amendment made by subsection (a)
  of this section shall be effective on and after January 1, 1992.
TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 501. PRETERMISSION OF REGULAR SESSIONS OF COURT OF APPEALS.
  Section 48(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking `,
  with the consent of the Judicial Conference of the United States,'.
SEC. 502. REPORTS AND STATISTICS.
  (a) ELIMINATION OF DUPLICATIVE REPORTING REQUIREMENT- After January 1, 1992,
  the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts is
  not required to send a report under section 1121(a) of Public Law 95-630
  (12 U.S.C. 3421(a)).
  (b) TRANSFER OF REPORTING DUTY TO ADMINISTERING AGENCY- Section 2412(d)(5)
  of title 28, United States Code, is amended by striking `The Director'
  and all that follows through `this title,' and inserting `The Attorney
  General shall report annually to the Congress on'.
  (c) EXTENSION FOR JUDICIAL CENTER REPORT- Section 302(c) of the Judicial
  Improvements Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-650; 104 Stat. 5104) is amended
  by striking `2 years' and inserting `2 years and 9 months'.
SEC. 503. RECYCLING AND REUSE OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
  Section 604(g) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at
  the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) In order to promote the recycling and reuse of recyclable materials,
  the Director may provide for the sale or disposal of recyclable scrap
  materials from paper products and other consumable office supplies held
  by an entity within the judicial branch.
  `(B) The sale or disposal of recyclable materials under subparagraph (A)
  shall be consistent with the procedures provided in section 203 of the
  Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 484)
  for the sale of surplus property.
  `(C) Proceeds from the sale of recyclable materials under subparagraph
  (A) shall be deposited as offsetting collections to the fund established
  under section 1931 of this title and shall remain available until expended
  to reimburse any appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the
  judicial branch.'.
SEC. 504. VENUE IN DIVERSITY AND FEDERAL QUESTION CASES.
  Section 1391(a)(3) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  before the period `, if there is no district in which the action may
  otherwise be brought'.
SEC. 505. SUMMARIES OF REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
  Section 103(c)(4)(B) of the Civil Justice Reform Act of 1990 (Public Law
  101-650) is amended by striking `the reports' and inserting `summaries of
  the reports'.
SEC. 506. COSTS AND FEES IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF VETERANS APPEALS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2412(d)(2)(F) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended by inserting before the semicolon `and the United States Court
  of Veterans Appeals'.
  (b) APPLICATION TO PENDING CASES- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall
  apply to any case pending before the United States Court of Veterans Appeals
  on the date of the enactment of this Act, to any appeal filed in that court
  on or after such date, and to any appeal from that court that is pending
  on such date in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
  (c) FEE AGREEMENTS- Section 5904(d) of title 38, United States Code, shall
  not prevent an award of fees and other expenses under section  2412(d)
  of title 28, United States Code. Section 5904(d) of title 38, United
  States Code, shall not apply with respect to any such award but only if,
  where the claimant's attorney receives fees for the same work under both
  section 5904 of title 38, United States Code, and section 2412(d) of title
  28, United  States Code, the claimant's attorney refunds to the claimant
  the amount of the smaller fee.
  (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section, and the amendment made by this section,
  shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE VI--JUDICIARY PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION, BENEFITS, AND PROTECTIONS
SEC. 601. JUDICIAL RETIREMENT MATTERS.
  (a) JUDICIAL RETIREMENT FUNDS- Section 255(g)(1)(B) of the Balanced Budget
  and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C.  905(g)(1)(B)) is amended
  by inserting after `Judicial survivors' annuities fund (10-8110-0-7-602);'
  the following:
  `Judicial Officers' Retirement Fund (10-8122-0-7-602);
  `Court of Federal Claims Judges' Retirement Fund (10-8124-0-7-602);'.
  (b) JUDICIARY TRUST FUNDS- Section 255(g)(1)(A) of the Balanced Budget and
  Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905(g)(1)(A)) is amended
  by inserting after `Payment to civil service retirement and disability fund
  (24-0200-0-1-805);' the following:
  `Payment to Judiciary Trust Funds (10-0941-0-1-752);'.
SEC. 602. FEDERAL JUDICIAL CENTER.
  (a) FUNCTIONS- Subsection 620(b) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (4) by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (5) by striking the period and inserting `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(6) insofar as may be consistent with the performance of the other
  functions set forth in this section, to cooperate with and assist agencies
  of the Federal Government and other appropriate organizations in providing
  information and advice to further improvement in the administration of
  justice in the courts of foreign countries and to acquire information
  about judicial administration in foreign countries that may contribute to
  performing the other functions set forth in this section.'.
  (b) CLERICAL COMPENSATION- Subsection 625(c) of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended by striking `competitive service and' and inserting
  `competitive service without regard to'.
TITLE VII--CRIMINAL ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
SEC. 701. NEW AUTHORITY FOR PROBATION AND PRETRIAL SERVICES OFFICERS.
  (a) PROBATION OFFICERS- Section 3603 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (7) by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9) and inserting after
  paragraph (7) the following new paragraph:
  `(8)(A) when directed by the court, and to the degree required by the regimen
  of care or treatment ordered by the court as a condition of release, keep
  informed as to the conduct and provide supervision of a person conditionally
  released under the provisions of section 4243 or 4246 of this title, and
  report such person's conduct and condition to the court ordering release
  and to the Attorney General or his designee; and
  `(B) immediately report any violation of the conditions of release to the
  court and the Attorney General or his designee; and'.
  (b) PRETRIAL SERVICES- Section 3154 of title 18, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (13); and
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following new paragraph:
  `(12)(A) As directed by the court and to the degree required by the regimen
  of care or treatment ordered by the court as a condition of release, keep
  informed as to the conduct and provide supervision of a person conditionally
  released under the provisions of section 4243 or 4246 of this title, and
  report such person's conduct and condition to the court ordering release
  and the Attorney General or his designee.
  `(B) Any violation of the conditions of release shall immediately be
  reported to the court and the Attorney General or his designee.'.
SEC. 702. GOVERNMENT RATES OF TRAVEL FOR CRIMINAL JUSTICE ACT ATTORNEYS
AND EXPERTS.
  The Administrator of General Services, in entering into contracts providing
  for special rates to be charged by Federal Government sources of supply,
  including common carriers and hotels (or other commercial providers of
  lodging) for official travel and accommodation of Federal Government
  employees, shall provide for charging the same rates for attorneys,
  experts, and other persons traveling primarily in connection with carrying
  out responsibilities under section 3006A of title 18, United States Code,
  including community defender organizations established under subsection
  (g) of that section.
SEC. 703. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
  Section 3143(b)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking
  `paragraph (b)(2)(D)' and inserting `subparagraph (B)(iv) of this paragraph'.
TITLE VIII--STATE JUSTICE INSTITUTE REAUTHORIZATION
SEC. 801. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  The text of section 215 of the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (Public
  Law 98-620; 42 U.S.C. 10713) is amended to read as follows:
  `SEC. 215. There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the
  purposes of this title $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $20,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1994, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and $25,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1996. Amounts appropriated for each such year are to remain
  available until expended.'.
SEC. 802. INTERAGENCY AGREEMENTS.
  Section 206(b) of the State Justice Institute Act of 1984 (42
  U.S.C. 10705(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by striking `shall give priority to grants, cooperative agreements,
  or contracts' and inserting `may award grants to or enter into cooperative
  agreements or contracts'; and
  (B) in subparagraph (A) by striking the comma and inserting a semicolon;
  (2) in paragraph (2) by inserting `to' after `award grants';
  (3) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
  `(3) Upon application by an appropriate State or local agency or institution
  and if the arrangements to be made by such agency or institution will provide
  services which could not be provided adequately through nongovernmental
  arrangements, the Institute may award a grant or enter into a cooperative
  agreement or contract with a unit of State or local government other than
  a court.';
  (4) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
  (5) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new paragraph:
  `(4) The Institute may enter into contracts with Federal agencies to carry
  out the purposes of this title.'.
SEC. 803. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.
  (a) BOARD OF DIRECTORS- Section 204(a)(3) of the State Justice Institute
  Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10703(a)(3)) is amended in the second sentence by
  striking `conference' and inserting `Conference'.
  (b) USES OF FUNDS- Section 206(c)(7) of the State Justice Institute Act of
  1984 (42 U.S.C. 10705(c)(7)) is amended by striking `effect' and inserting
  `affect'.
SEC. 804. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  The provisions of this title shall take effect on the date of the enactment
  of this Act.
TITLE IX--COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS
SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Court of Federal Claims Technical and
  Procedural Improvements Act of 1992'.
SEC. 902. COURT DESIGNATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapters 7, 51, 91, and 165  of title 28, United States
  Code, are amended--
  (1) by striking `United States Claims Court' each place it appears and
  inserting `United States Court of Federal Claims'; and
  (2) by striking `Claims Court' each place it appears and inserting `Court
  of Federal Claims'.
  (b) OTHER PROVISIONS OF LAW- Reference in any other Federal law or any
  document to--
  (1) the `United States Claims Court' shall be deemed to refer to the
  `United States Court of Federal Claims'; and
  (2) the `Claims Court' shall be deemed to refer to the `Court of Federal
  Claims'.
SEC. 903. MILITARY RETIREMENT PAY FOR RETIRED JUDGES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Chapter 7 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 180. Military retirement pay for retired judges
  `Section 371(e) of this title applies to judges of the United States Court
  of Federal Claims, and for the purpose of construing section 371(e) of this
  title, a judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims shall be deemed
  to be a judge of the United States as defined in section 451 of this title.'.
  (b) TABLE OF SECTIONS- The table of sections for chapter 7 of title 28,
  United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
`179. Insurance and annuities programs.
`180. Military retirement pay for retired judges.'.
SEC. 904. RECALL OF COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS JUDGES ON SENIOR STATUS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 375 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a)(1) by striking `, a judge of
  the Claims Court,' and `, judge of the Claims Court,';
  (2) by amending paragraph (2) of subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(2) For purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection, a certification may
  be made, in the case of a bankruptcy judge or a United States magistrate,
  by the judicial council of the circuit in which the official duty station
  of the judge or magistrate at the time of retirement was located.';
  (3) by amending paragraph (3) of subsection (a) to read as follows:
  `(3) For purposes of this section, the term `bankruptcy judge' means a
  bankruptcy judge appointed under chapter 6 of this title or serving as a
  bankruptcy judge on March 31, 1984.'; and
  (4) in subsection (f)--
  (A) by striking  `, a judge of the Claims Court,'; and
  (B) by striking `, a commissioner of the Court of Claims,'.
  (b) RECALL OF RETIRED JUDGES- Section 797(d) of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended in the second sentence by striking `civil service'.
SEC. 905. LAW CLERKS.
  The first sentence of section 794 of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  by inserting after `may approve' the following: `for district judges'.
SEC. 906. SITES FOR HOLDING COURT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 798(a) of title 28, United States Code, is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(a) The United States Court of Federal Claims is authorized to use
  facilities and hold court in Washington, District of Columbia, and throughout
  the United States (including its territories and possessions) as necessary
  for compliance with sections 173 and 2503(c) of this title. The facilities
  of the Federal courts, as well as other comparable facilities administered
  by the General Services Administration, shall be made available for trials
  and other proceedings outside of the District of Columbia.'.
  (b) HEARING IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY- Section 798 of title 28, United States
  Code, is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
  `(b) Upon application of a party or upon the judge's own initiative, and
  upon a showing that the interests of economy, efficiency, and justice will
  be served, the chief judge of the Court of Federal Claims may issue an
  order authorizing a judge of the court to conduct proceedings, including
  evidentiary hearings and trials, in a foreign country whose laws do not
  prohibit such proceedings, except that an interlocutory appeal may be
  taken from such an order pursuant to section 1292(d)(2) of this title,
  and the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit may, in
  its discretion, consider the appeal.'.
  (c) APPEAL JURISDICTION- Section 1292(d)(2) of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended by inserting after `When' the following: `the chief judge of the
  United States Court of Federal Claims issues an order under section 798(b)
  of this title, or when'.
SEC. 907. JURISDICTION.
  (a) CERTIFICATIONS- (1) Section 6(c) of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978
  (41 U.S.C. 605(c)) is amended--
  (A) in paragraph (1) in the second sentence--
  (i) by striking `and' after `belief,'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period at the end of the sentence the following:
  `, and that the certifier is duly authorized to certify the claim on behalf
  of the contractor'; and
  (B) by adding at the end the following:
  `(6) The contracting officer shall have no obligation to render a final
  decision on any claim of more than $50,000 that is not certified in
  accordance with paragraph (1) if, within 60 days after receipt of the claim,
  the contracting officer notifies the contractor in writing of the reasons
  why any attempted certification was found to be defective. A defect in the
  certification of a claim shall not deprive a court or an agency board of
  contract appeals of jurisdiction over that claim. Prior to the entry of
  a final judgment by a court or a decision by an agency board of contract
  appeals, the court or agency board shall require a defective certification
  to be corrected.
  `(7) The certification required by paragraph (1) may be executed by any
  person duly authorized to bind the contractor with respect to the claim.'.
  (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1)(B) shall be effective with respect
  to all claims filed before, on, or after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, except for those claims which, before such date of enactment,
  have been the subject of an appeal to an agency board of contract appeals
  or a suit in the United States Claims Court.
  (3) If any interest is due under section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act
  of 1978 on a claim for which the certification under section 6(c)(1) is,
  on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, found to be defective
  shall be paid from the later of the date on which the contracting officer
  initially received the claim or the date of the enactment of this Act.
  (4) The amendments made by paragraph (1)(A) shall be effective with respect
  to certifications executed more than 60 days after the effective date of
  amendments to the Federal Acquisition Regulation implementing the amendments
  made by paragraph (1)(A) with respect to the certification of claims.
  (b) JURISDICTION OF COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS- (1) Section 1491(a)(2) of title
  28, United States Code, is amended in the last sentence by inserting before
  the period at the end the following: `, including a dispute concerning
  termination of a contract, rights in tangible or intangible property,
  compliance with cost accounting standards, and other nonmonetary disputes on
  which a decision of the contracting officer has been issued under section
  6 of that Act'.
  (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be effective with respect
  to all actions filed before, on, or after the date of the enactment of
  this Act, except for those actions which, before such date of enactment,
  have been the subject of--
  (A) a final judgment of the United States Claims Court, if the time for
  appeal of that judgment has expired without an appeal having been filed, or
  (B) a final judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
SEC. 908. AWARDABLE COSTS.
  (a) AWARD OF COSTS- Section 1919 of title 28, United States Code,
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `district court or' and inserting `district court,'; and
  (2) by inserting after `Trade' the following: `, or the Court of Federal
  Claims'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- (1) The section caption for section 1919 of
  title 28, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 1919. Dismissal for lack of jurisdiction'.
  (2) The item relating to section 1919 in the table of sections for chapter
  123 of title 28, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
`1919. Dismissal for lack of jurisdiction.'.
SEC. 909. PROCEEDINGS GENERALLY.
  Section 2503 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
  end the following:
  `(d) For the purpose of construing sections 1821, 1915, 1920, and 1927 of
  this title, the United States Court of Federal Claims shall be deemed to
  be a court of the United States.'.
SEC. 910. SUBPOENAS AND INCIDENTAL POWERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 2521 of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) by amending the section caption to read as follows:
`Sec. 2521. Subpoenas and incidental powers';
  (2) by inserting `(a)' before `Subpoenas requiring'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(b) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have power to punish by
  fine or imprisonment, at its discretion, such contempt of its authority as--
  `(1) misbehavior of any person in its presence or so near thereto as to
  obstruct the administration of justice;
  `(2) misbehavior of any of its officers in their official transactions; or
  `(3) disobedience or resistance to its lawful writ, process, order, rule,
  decree, or command.
  `(c) The United States Court of Federal Claims shall have such assistance
  in the carrying out of its lawful writ, process, order, rule, decree, or
  command as is available to a court of the United States. The United States
  marshal for any district in which the Court of Federal Claims is sitting
  shall, when requested by the chief judge of the Court of Federal Claims,
  attend any session of the Court of Federal Claims in such district.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of sections for chapter 165 of title
  28, United States Code, is amended by amending the item relating to section
  2521 to read as follows:
`2521. Subpoenas and incidental powers.'.
SEC. 911. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  This title and the amendments made by this title shall take effect on the
  date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE X--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1001. VICTIMS' RIGHTS FUNDING.
  Section 1402 of the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10601)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:
  `(c) Sums deposited in the Fund shall remain in the Fund and be available
  for expenditure under this subsection for grants under this chapter without
  fiscal year limitation.'; and
  (2) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
  `(d) The Fund shall be available as follows:
  `(1) The first $6,200,000 deposited in the Fund in each of the fiscal years
  1992 through 1995 and the first $3,000,000 in each fiscal year thereafter
  shall be available to the judicial branch for administrative costs to
  carry out the functions of the judicial branch under sections 3611 and
  3612 of title 18, United States Code.
  `(2) Of the next $100,000,000 deposited in the Fund in a particular
  fiscal year--
  `(A) 49.5 percent shall be available for grants under section 1403; and
  `(B) 45 percent shall be available for grants under section 1404(a).
  `(3) The next $5,500,000 deposited in the Fund in a particular fiscal year
  shall be available for grants under section 1404(a).
  `(4) The next $4,500,000 deposited in the Fund in a particular fiscal year
  shall be available for grants under section 1404(a).
  `(5) Any deposits in the Fund in a particular fiscal year that remain
  after the funds are distributed under paragraphs (1) through (4) shall be
  available as follows:
  `(A) 47.5 percent shall be available for grants under section 1403.
  `(B) 47.5 percent shall be available for grants under section 1404(a).
  `(C) 5 percent shall be available for grants under section 1404(c).'.
SEC. 1002. AUTHORITY TO LIMIT COLLECTION OF PRETRIAL INFORMATION IN CLASS
A MISDEMEANOR CASES.
  Section 3154(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting
  before the period `; except that a district court may direct that information
  not be collected, verified, or reported under this paragraph on individuals
  charged with Class A misdemeanors as defined in section 3559(a)(6) of
  this title'.
SEC. 1003. TERRORISM CIVIL REMEDY.
  (a) TERRORISM- Chapter 113A of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in section 2331 by striking subsection (d) and redesignating subsection
  (e) as subsection (d);
  (2) by redesignating section 2331 as 2332 and striking the caption for
  section 2331 and inserting the following:
`Sec. 2332. Criminal penalties';
  (3) by inserting before section 2332 as redesignated the following:
`Sec. 2331. Definitions
  `As used in this chapter--
  `(1) the term `international terrorism' means activities that--
  `(A) involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human life that are a
  violation of the criminal laws of the United States or of any State, or
  that would be a criminal violation if committed within the jurisdiction
  of the United States or of any State;
  `(B) appear to be intended--
  `(i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian population;
  `(ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or coercion; or
  `(iii) to affect the conduct of a government by assassination or kidnapping;
  and
  `(C) occur primarily outside the territorial jurisdiction of the United
  States, or transcend national boundaries in terms of the means by which
  they are accomplished, the persons they appear intended to intimidate or
  coerce, or the locale in which their perpetrators operate or seek asylum;
  `(2) the term `national of the United States' has the meaning given such
  term in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
  `(3) the term `person' means any individual or entity capable of holding
  a legal or beneficial interest in property; and
  `(4) the term `act of war' means any act occurring in the course of--
  `(A) declared war;
  `(B) armed conflict, whether or not war has been declared, between two or
  more nations; or
  `(C) armed conflict between military forces of any origin.';
  (4) by adding after section 2332, as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection, the following new sections:
`Sec. 2333. Civil remedies
  `(a) ACTION AND JURISDICTION- Any national of the United States injured in
  his or her person, property, or business by reason of an act of international
  terrorism, or his or her estate, survivors, or heirs, may sue therefor
  in any appropriate district court of the United States and shall recover
  threefold the damages he or she sustains and the cost of the suit, including
  attorney's fees.
  `(b) ESTOPPEL UNDER UNITED STATES LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered
  in favor of the United States in any criminal proceeding under section 1116,
  1201, 1203, or 2332 of this title or section 902(i), (k), (l), (n), or (r)
  of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 U.S.C. App. 1472(i), (k), (l), (n),
  or (r)) shall estop the defendant from denying the essential allegations of
  the criminal offense in any subsequent civil proceeding under this section.
  `(c) ESTOPPEL UNDER FOREIGN LAW- A final judgment or decree rendered
  in favor of any foreign state in any criminal proceeding shall, to the
  extent that such judgment or decree may be accorded full faith and credit
  under the law of the United States, estop the defendant from denying the
  essential allegations of the criminal offense in any subsequent civil
  proceeding under this section.
`Sec. 2334. Jurisdiction and venue
  `(a) GENERAL VENUE- Any civil action under section 2333 of this title against
  any person may be instituted in the district court of the United States for
  any district where any plaintiff resides or where any defendant resides or
  is served, or has an agent. Process in such a civil action may be served
  in any district where the defendant resides, is found, or has an agent.
  `(b) SPECIAL MARITIME OR TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION- If the actions giving
  rise to the claim occurred within the special maritime and territorial
  jurisdiction of the United States, as defined in section 7 of this title,
  then any civil action under section 2333 of this title against any person may
  be instituted in the district court of the United States for any district
  in which any plaintiff resides or the defendant resides, is served, or
  has an agent.
  `(c) SERVICE ON WITNESSES- A witness in a civil action brought under section
  2333 of this title may be served in any other district where the defendant
  resides, is found, or has an agent.
  `(d) CONVENIENCE OF THE FORUM- The district court shall not dismiss any
  action brought under section 2333 of this title on the grounds of the
  inconvenience or inappropriateness of the forum chosen, unless--
  `(1) the action may be maintained in a foreign court that has jurisdiction
  over the subject matter and over all the defendants;
  `(2) that foreign court is significantly more convenient and appropriate; and
  `(3) that foreign court offers a remedy which is substantially the same
  as the one available in the courts of the United States.
`Sec. 2335. Limitation of actions
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsection (b), a suit for recovery of damages
  under section 2333 of this title shall not be maintained unless commenced
  within 4 years after the date the cause of action accrued.
  `(b) CALCULATION OF PERIOD- The time of the absence of the defendant from
  the United States or from any jurisdiction in which the same or a similar
  action arising from the same facts may be maintained by the plaintiff, or
  of any concealment of the defendant's whereabouts, shall not be included
  in the 4-year period set forth in subsection (a).
`Sec. 2336. Other limitations
  `(a) ACTS OF WAR- No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this
  title for injury or loss by reason of an act of war.
  `(b) LIMITATION ON DISCOVERY- If a party to an action under section 2333
  seeks to discover the investigative files of the Department of Justice,
  the Assistant Attorney General, Deputy Attorney General, or Attorney
  General may object on the ground that compliance will interfere with
  a criminal investigation or prosecution of the incident, or a national
  security operation related to the incident, which is the subject of the
  civil litigation. The court shall evaluate any such objections in camera
  and shall stay the discovery if the court finds that granting the discovery
  request will substantially interfere with a criminal investigation or
  prosecution of the incident or a national security operation related to the
  incident. The court shall consider the likelihood of criminal prosecution
  by the Government and other factors it deems to be appropriate. A stay of
  discovery under this subsection shall constitute a bar to the granting of a
  motion to dismiss under rules 12(b)(6) and 56 of the Federal Rules of Civil
  Procedure. If the court grants a stay of discovery under this subsection,
  it may stay the action in the interests of justice.
  `(c) STAY OF ACTION FOR CIVIL REMEDIES- (1) The Attorney General may
  intervene in any civil action brought under section 2333 for the purpose
  of seeking a stay of the civil action. A stay shall be granted if the
  court finds that the continuation of the civil action will substantially
  interfere with a criminal prosecution which involves the same subject matter
  and in which an indictment has been returned, or interfere with national
  security operations related to the terrorist incident that is the subject
  of the civil action. A stay may be granted for up to 6 months. The Attorney
  General may petition the court for an extension of the stay for additional
  6-month periods until the criminal prosecution is completed or dismissed.
  `(2) In a proceeding under this subsection, the Attorney General may
  request that any order issued by the court for release to the parties and
  the public omit any reference to the basis on which the stay was sought.
`Sec. 2337. Suits against Government officials
  `No action shall be maintained under section 2333 of this title against--
  `(1) the United States, an agency of the United States, or an officer or
  employee of the United States or any agency thereof acting within his or
  her official capacity or under color of legal authority; or
  `(2) a foreign state, an agency of a foreign state, or an officer or
  employee of a foreign state or an agency thereof acting within his or her
  official capacity or under color of legal authority.
`Sec. 2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction
  `The district courts of the United States shall have exclusive jurisdiction
  over an action brought under this chapter.'; and
  (5) by amending the table of sections to read as follows:
`Chapter 113A--Terrorism
`Sec.
`2331. Definitions.
`2332. Criminal penalties.
`2333. Civil remedies.
`2334. Jurisdiction and venue.
`2335. Limitation of actions.
`2336. Other limitations.
`2337. Suits against Government officials.
`2338. Exclusive Federal jurisdiction.'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of part 1 of title 18, United
  States Code, is amended by striking
2331'
and inserting
2331'.
  (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section and the amendments made by this section
  shall apply to any pending case or any cause of action arising on or after
  4 years before the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE XI--EFFECTIVE DATE
SEC. 1101. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of
  this Act and the amendments made by this Act shall take effect on January
  1, 1993.
  (b) AVAILABILITY OF APPROPRIATIONS- Notwithstanding any provision of
  this Act, all sums expended pursuant to this Act shall be subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.