 
--S.1583--
S.1583
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To increase the safety to humans and the environment from the transportation
by pipeline of natural gas and hazardous liquids, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Pipeline Safety Act of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SAFETY
Sec. 101. Environmental protection.
Sec. 102. High-density population areas.
Sec. 103. Increased inspection requirements.
Sec. 104. Excess flow valves.
Sec. 105. Technical pipeline safety standards committee.
Sec. 106. Operator testing.
Sec. 107. Replacement of cast iron pipelines.
Sec. 108. Pipeline facility inspection amendments.
Sec. 109. Gathering lines.
Sec. 110. Revised reporting requirements.
Sec. 111. Authority of Secretary.
Sec. 112. Enforcement.
Sec. 113. Participation in agreement proceedings.
Sec. 114. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 115. Customer-owned service lines.
Sec. 116. Additional State standards.
Sec. 117. Underwater abandoned pipeline facilities.
Sec. 118. Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 table of contents.
TITLE II--HAZARDOUS  LIQUID PIPELINE SAFETY
Sec. 201. Environmental protection.
Sec. 202. Environmentally sensitive and high-density population areas.
Sec. 203. Increased inspection requirements.
Sec. 204. Technical Pipeline Safety Standards Committee.
Sec. 205. Operator testing.
Sec. 206. Low internal stress hazardous liquid pipeline facilities.
Sec. 207. Pipeline facility inspection amendments.
Sec. 208. Gathering lines.
Sec. 209. Revised reporting requirements.
Sec. 210. Authority of Secretary.
Sec. 211. Enforcement.
Sec. 212. Emergency flow restricting devices.
Sec. 213. Participation in agreement proceedings.
Sec. 214. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 215. Additional State standards.
Sec. 216. Underwater abandoned pipeline facilities.
TITLE III--GENERALLY APPLICABLE PIPELINE SAFETY PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Grants-in-aid authorization.
Sec. 302. Underground storage tanks.
Sec. 303. Pipeline accident investigations.
Sec. 304. One-call enforcement.
Sec. 305. Additional inspectors.
Sec. 306. Development of underground utility location technologies.
Sec. 307. Study of underwater abandoned pipeline facilities.
TITLE IV--RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 401. Research and Special Programs Administration.
TITLE V--HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION ACT TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
Sec. 501. Correction to reference to Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act.
Sec. 502. Definitions of HAZMAT employee and employer.
Sec. 503. Technical corrections to section 106.
Sec. 504. Technical correction to section 115.
Sec. 505. Technical corrections to section 116.
Sec. 506. Technical correction to section 118.
Sec. 507. Uniformity of State motor carrier permitting forms and procedures.
Sec. 508. Exemption for certain rail-motor carrier mergers.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 601. Page Avenue extension.
Sec. 602. Rural access.
TITLE I--NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SAFETY
SEC. 101. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
  (a) FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS AND REPORTS- Section 3(a) of the Natural Gas
  Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1672(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by inserting `and the protection of the environment'
  after `need for pipeline safety';
  (2) in paragraph (1)(D) by inserting `and the protection of the environment'
  after `contribute to public safety'; and
  (3) in paragraph (3)(A) by striking `or property' and inserting `, property,
  or the environment'.
  (b) CORRECTIVE ACTION- Section 12(b) of such Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1679b(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `or property,' and inserting `, property,
  or the environment,';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking `or property,' and inserting `,
  property, or the environment,';
  (3) in paragraph (2)(B)--
  (A) by striking `or property,' and inserting `, property, or the
  environment,'; and
  (B) by striking `or property.' and inserting `, property, or the
  environment.'; and
  (4) in paragraph (5) by striking `or property.' and inserting `, property,
  or the environment.'.
SEC. 102. HIGH-DENSITY POPULATION AREAS.
  (a) PIPELINE INVENTORY- Section 3 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act
  of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1672) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (f)--
  (A) by inserting `(and, to the extent the Secretary considers necessary,
  operators of gathering lines that are not regulated gathering lines as such
  term is defined pursuant to section 21(b))' after `subject to this Act'; and
  (B) by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence:
  `Such inventory shall also include an identification of each of the
  pipeline facilities of such operator which pass through an area described
  in regulations issued under subsection (i)(1).'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(i) HIGH-DENSITY POPULATION AREAS-
  `(1) IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITIES- Not later than 2 years after the date
  of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall issue regulations
  establishing criteria for the identification, by operators of pipeline
  facilities, of all pipeline facilities that are located in high-density
  population areas. Such regulations shall provide for such identification
  to be carried out through the inventory required under subsection (f).
  `(2) EXCLUSION OF NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION LINES- Natural gas distribution
  lines shall not be included among pipeline facilities required to be
  identified pursuant to paragraph (1).'.
  (b) MAPS- Section 3(e)(2) of such Act is amended by inserting `including
  an identification of areas described in regulations issued under subsection
  (i)(1),' after `supplementary geographic description,'.
  (c) INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE PLANS- Section 13(a)(4) of such Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1680(a)(4)) is amended by inserting `and the protection of
  the environment' after `public safety'.
SEC. 103. INCREASED INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
  Section 3(g) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672(g)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), respectively;
  (2) by inserting `(1) FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS- ' after `INSPECTION DEVICES-
  ';
  (3) by indenting paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection, and moving such paragraph (1) (including subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), as designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection) 2 ems to the right;
  (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (2)
  of this subsection, the following new sentence: `The Secretary may extend
  such regulation to require existing transmission facilities, whose basic
  construction would accommodate an instrumented internal inspection device,
  to be modified to permit the inspection of such facilities with instrumented
  internal inspection devices.'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) PERIODIC INSPECTIONS- Not later than 3 years after the date of
  the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall issue regulations
  requiring the periodic inspection of each pipeline identified pursuant to
  subsection (i) by the operator of the pipeline. In issuing the regulations,
  the Secretary shall prescribe the circumstances, if any, under which such
  inspections shall be conducted with an instrumented internal inspection
  device. In those circumstances under which an instrumented internal
  inspection device is not required, the Secretary shall require the use of
  an inspection method that is at least as effective as the use of such a
  device in providing for the safety of the pipeline.'.
SEC. 104. EXCESS FLOW VALVES.
  Section 3 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672) is further amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(j) EXCESS FLOW VALVES-
  `(1) REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING INSTALLATION CIRCUMSTANCES- Not later than 18
  months after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary
  shall issue regulations prescribing the circumstances, if any, under which
  operators of natural gas distribution systems must install excess flow
  valves in such systems. In prescribing such circumstances, the Secretary
  shall consider--
  `(A) the system design pressure and the system operating pressure;
  `(B) the types of customers to which the distribution system supplies
  natural gas, including hospitals, schools, and commercial enterprises;
  `(C) the technical feasibility and cost of the installation of such valves;
  `(D) the public safety benefits of the installation of such valves;
  `(E) the location of customer meters; and
  `(F) such other factors as the Secretary determines to be relevant.
  `(2) REGULATIONS PRESCRIBING NOTIFICATION TO CUSTOMERS OF AVAILABILITY-
  Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection,
  the Secretary shall issue regulations requiring operators of natural gas
  distribution systems to notify, in writing, their customers with lines in
  which excess flow valves are not required by law, but can be installed in
  accordance with the performance standards developed under paragraph (4)--
  `(A) of the availability of excess flow valves for installation in such
  systems,
  `(B) of any safety benefits to be derived from the installation, and
  `(C) of any costs associated with the installation.
Such regulations shall provide that, except in circumstances under which the
installation is required under paragraph (1), excess flow valves shall be
installed at the request of a customer if the customer will pay all costs
associated with the installation.
  `(3) REPORT- If the Secretary determines under paragraph (1) that there
  are no circumstances under which operators must install excess flow valves,
  the Secretary shall transmit to Congress, not later than 30 days after the
  date of such determination, a report on the reasons for such determination.
  `(4) PERFORMANCE STANDARDS- Not later than 18 months after the date of the
  enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall develop standards for
  the performance of excess flow valves used to protect lines in natural
  gas distribution systems. Such standards shall be incorporated into any
  regulations issued by the Secretary under this subsection. All installations
  of excess flow valves shall be made in accordance with such standards.
  `(5) APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS AND STANDARDS- Regulations and standards
  issued under paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) shall only apply to--
  `(A) natural gas distribution systems installed after the effective date
  of such regulations; and
  `(B) other natural gas distribution systems where repairs to such system
  require the replacement of parts in a manner to accommodate the installation
  of excess flow valves.'.
SEC. 105. TECHNICAL PIPELINE SAFETY STANDARDS COMMITTEE.
  Section 4 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1673) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(3) by striking the period and inserting `, including
  2 members who have education, background, or experience in environmental
  protection or public safety. At least 1 of the members selected under this
  paragraph shall have no financial interests in the pipeline, petroleum,
  or natural gas industries.'; and
  (2) in subsection (b) by inserting after the sixth sentence the following
  new sentence: `The Committee, if requested by the Secretary, shall make
  recommendations to the Secretary concerning policy development.'.
SEC. 106. OPERATOR TESTING.
  Section 3(a)(1) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672(a)(1)) is further amended--
  (1) in the third sentence by striking `may' and inserting `shall'; and
  (2) by inserting after the third sentence the following new sentence: `Such
  certification may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, be performed by
  the operator. Such testing and certification shall address the ability to
  recognize and appropriately react to abnormal operating conditions which
  may indicate a dangerous situation or a condition exceeding design limits.'.
SEC. 107. REPLACEMENT OF CAST IRON PIPELINES.
  Section 13 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1680) is amended by adding at the end the following new
  subsection:
  `(c) REPLACEMENT OF CAST IRON PIPELINES- The Secretary shall publish a
  notice as to the availability of the industry guidelines, developed by
  the Gas Piping Technology Committee, for the replacement of cast iron
  pipelines. Within 2 years after the industry guidelines become available,
  the Secretary shall conduct a survey of operators with cast iron pipe in
  their systems to determine the extent to which each operator has adopted a
  plan for the safe management and replacement of cast iron, the elements of
  the plan, including anticipated rate of replacement, and the progress that
  has been made. Chapter 35 of title 44,  United States Code (relating to
  coordination of Federal information policy), shall not apply to the conduct
  of such survey. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Secretary from
  developing such Federal guidelines or regulations with respect to cast
  iron pipelines as the Secretary deems appropriate.'.
SEC. 108. PIPELINE FACILITY INSPECTION AMENDMENTS.
  Section 3(h) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672(h)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking `pipeline facility operators described in
  paragraph (1)(A)' and inserting `operators of pipeline facilities described
  in paragraph (3)';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(B) by striking `paragraph (1)(A)' and inserting
  `paragraph (3)';
  (3) in paragraph (3) by striking `periodic inspection program' and all
  that follows through `and its inlets' and inserting the following:
`periodic inspection program of--
  `(A) all offshore pipeline facilities; and
  `(B) any other pipeline facilities which cross under, over, or through
  navigable waters, as such term is defined by the Secretary, if the location
  of such pipeline facilities in such navigable waters could pose a hazard
  to navigation or public safety, as determined by the Secretary';
  (4) in paragraph (4) by striking `offshore pipeline facility' and inserting
  `pipeline facility described in paragraph (3)'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5) SUPPLEMENTARY INITIAL INSPECTION-
  `(A) REQUIREMENT- Not later than--
  `(i) 3 years after the date of the enactment of this paragraph; or
  `(ii) 6 months after the establishment of standards under subparagraph (D),
whichever occurs first, the operator of each offshore pipeline facility not
described in paragraph (1)(A) shall inspect such pipeline facility and report
to the Secretary on any portion of the pipeline facility which is exposed or
is a hazard to navigation. This subparagraph shall apply only to pipeline
facilities between the high water mark and the point where the subsurface
is under 15 feet of water, as measured from mean low water.
  `(B) EXTENSION- The Secretary may extend the time period for compliance under
  subparagraph (A) with respect to a pipeline facility for an additional period
  of up to 6 months if the operator of the pipeline facility demonstrates
  to the satisfaction of the Secretary that a good faith effort, with due
  diligence and care, has failed to enable compliance with the deadline
  under subparagraph (A).
  `(C) PRIOR INSPECTION RECOGNITION- Any inspection of a pipeline facility
  which has occurred after October 3, 1989, may be used for compliance with
  subparagraph (A) if the inspection conforms to the requirements of that
  subparagraph.
  `(D) ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS- The Secretary shall, within 2 years after
  the date of the enactment of this paragraph, establish, for the purposes
  of this paragraph, standards--
  `(i) for what constitutes an exposed pipeline facility; and
  `(ii) for what constitutes a hazard to navigation.'.
SEC. 109. GATHERING LINES.
  (a) DEFINITION OF TRANSPORTATION OF GAS-
  (1) AMENDMENTS- Section 2(3) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968
  (49 U.S.C. App. 1671(3)) is amended--
  (A) by inserting `, other than gathering through regulated gathering lines,'
  after `include the gathering of gas'; and
  (B) by inserting `, but such term shall include the movement of gas through
  regulated gathering lines' after `a nonrural area'.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
  on the effective date of the regulations required under section 21 of
  the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as added by subsection (b)
  of this section.
  (b) REGULATIONS DEFINING GATHERING LINES- Such Act is further amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 21. GATHERING LINES.
  `(a) GATHERING LINES DEFINED- The Secretary shall, within 2 years after
  the date of the enactment of this section, define by regulation the term
  `gathering line'. In defining such term, the Secretary shall consider
  functional and operational characteristics of the lines to be included in
  the definition and shall not be bound by any classifications established
  by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under the Natural Gas Act.
  `(b) REGULATED GATHERING LINES DEFINED- The Secretary shall, within 3 years
  after the date of the enactment of this section, define by regulation the
  term `regulated gathering line'. In defining such term, the Secretary shall
  consider such factors as location, length of line from the well site,
  operating pressure, throughput, and the composition of the transported
  gas in determining the types of lines which are functionally gathering
  but which, due to specific physical characteristics, warrant regulation
  under this Act.'.
SEC. 110. REVISED REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) PROPERTY  DAMAGE THRESHOLD- Section 5(a)(ii) of the Natural Gas Pipeline
  Safety Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1674(a)(ii)) is amended by striking
  `$5,000' and inserting `an amount established by the Secretary'.
  (b) DATE OF ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS- Section 16(a) of such Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1683(a)) is amended by striking `April 15' and inserting
  `August 15'.
SEC. 111. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.
  The first sentence of section 5(a) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act
  of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1674(a)) is amended by striking `when' and inserting
  `to the extent that'.
SEC. 112. ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) MAXIMUM CIVIL PENALTY- Section 11(a)(1) of the Natural Gas Pipeline
  Safety Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1679a(a)(1)) is amended by striking
  `$10,000' and inserting `$25,000'.
  (b) ENFORCEMENT ORDERS- Section 14 of such Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1681)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f) ENFORCEMENT ORDERS- In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena,
  or refusal to allow officers, employees, or agents authorized by the
  Secretary to enter, conduct inspections, or examine records and properties
  for purposes of determining compliance with this Act, by any person who
  resides, is found, or transacts business within the jurisdiction of any
  district court of the United States, such district court shall, upon the
  request of the Attorney General, acting at the request of the Secretary,
  have jurisdiction to issue to such person an order requiring such person
  to comply forthwith. Failure to obey such an order is punishable by that
  court as a contempt of court.'.
SEC. 113. PARTICIPATION IN AGREEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 12(b) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968
  (49 U.S.C. App. 1679b(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(6) OPPORTUNITY FOR STATE COMMENT- The Secretary shall provide,
  to appropriate State officials responsible for pipeline safety in any
  State in which a pipeline facility is located, notice and an opportunity
  to comment on any agreement proposed to be entered into by the Secretary
  to resolve a proceeding initiated under this section with respect to such
  pipeline facility. Comment submitted under this paragraph shall incorporate
  comments of affected local officials.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on the 180th day following the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 114. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 17(a) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1684(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (9) and inserting a
  semicolon; and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraphs:
  `(10) $6,405,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992;
  `(11) $6,857,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993;
  `(12) $7,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994; and
  `(13) $7,500,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995.'.
SEC. 115. CUSTOMER-OWNED SERVICE LINES.
  (a) SERVICE LINE MAINTENANCE INFORMATION- Section 18 of the Natural Gas
  Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1685) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(a) PUBLIC EDUCATION PROGRAM- ' before `Each person'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(b) SERVICE LINE MAINTENANCE INFORMATION- Not later than 1 year after
  the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall issue
  regulations requiring operators of natural gas distribution pipelines
  which do not maintain customer-owned service lines up to building walls
  to advise their customers of the requirements for maintenance of those
  lines, any resources known to the operator that could aid customers in
  doing such maintenance, any information that the operator has concerning
  the operation and maintenance of its lines that could aid customers,
  and the potential hazards of not maintaining service lines.'.
  (b) MAINTENANCE OF CUSTOMER-OWNED SERVICE LINES-
  (1) DOT SAFETY REVIEW- Within 18 months after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall conduct a review
  of Department of Transportation and State rules, policies, procedures,
  and other measures with respect to the safety of customer-owned natural
  gas service lines, including the effectiveness of such rules, policies,
  procedures, and other measures. The Secretary of Transportation shall include
  in the review an evaluation of the extent to which lack of maintenance of
  customer-owned natural gas service lines raises safety concerns and shall
  make recommendations regarding maintenance of such lines, including the
  need for any legislative changes or regulatory action. In conducting the
  review and developing the recommendations, the Secretary of Transportation
  shall consider the following factors: State and local law, including law
  governing private property and rights, and including State pipeline safety
  regulation of distribution operators; the views of State and local regulatory
  authorities; the extent of operator compliance with the program for advising
  customers regarding maintenance of such lines required under section 18(b) of
  the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968; available accident information;
  the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board; costs; the
  civil liability implications of distribution operators taking responsibility
  for customer-owned service lines; and whether the service line maintenance
  information program required under such section 18(b) sufficiently addresses
  safety risks and concerns involving customer-owned service lines.
  (2) OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY- Within 18 months after the
  date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall
  conduct, with the participation of the operators of natural gas distribution
  facilities, a survey of owners of customer-owned service lines to determine
  the views of such owners regarding whether distribution companies should
  assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of customer-owned
  service lines. In conducting the survey, the Secretary of Transportation
  shall ensure that such customers are aware of any potential safety benefits,
  any potential implementation issues (including any property rights or cost
  issues), the recommendations of the National Transportation Safety Board,
  and accidents that have occurred, related to customer-owned service lines.
  (3) APPLICABILITY- Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code (relating to
  coordination of Federal information policy) shall not apply to the conduct
  of the review or survey under this subsection.
  (4) REPORT- Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall transmit to Congress a report
  on the results of the review and survey conducted under this subsection,
  together with any recommendations (including legislative recommendations)
  regarding maintenance of customer-owned natural gas service lines.
  (c) SAFETY MEASURES- Section 3 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of
  1968 (14 U.S.C. App. 1672) is further amended by adding at the end the
  following new subsection:
  `(k) SAFETY MEASURES- The Secretary shall, within 1 year after transmitting
  the report required by section 115(b) of the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992,
  taking into consideration such report, and in cooperation and coordination
  with appropriate State and local authorities, take action, as appropriate,
  to promote the adoption of measures that would improve the safety of
  customer-owned service lines.'.
SEC. 116. ADDITIONAL STATE STANDARDS.
  Section 3(a)(1) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672(a)(1)) is further amended by inserting `that has submitted
  a current certification under section 5(a)' after `Any State agency'.
SEC. 117. UNDERWATER ABANDONED PIPELINE FACILITIES.
  Section 3(h) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1672(h)) is further amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(6) ABANDONED PIPELINE FACILITIES-
  `(A) TREATMENT- For the purposes of this subsection, except with respect
  to the initial inspection required under paragraph (1), the term `pipeline
  facilities' includes underwater abandoned pipeline facilities. For the
  purposes of this subsection, in a case where such a pipeline facility has
  no current operator, the most recent operator of such pipeline facility
  shall be deemed to be the operator of such pipeline facility.
  `(B) REGULATIONS-
  `(i) IDENTIFICATION OF HAZARDS- In issuing regulations under paragraph
  (3), the Secretary shall identify what constitutes a hazard to navigation
  with respect to underwater abandoned pipeline facilities.
  `(ii) OTHER REQUIREMENTS- In issuing regulations under paragraphs (3) and
  (4) regarding underwater pipeline facilities abandoned after the date of
  the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall--
  `(I) include such requirements as will lessen the potential that such
  pipeline facilities will pose a hazard to navigation; and
  `(II) take into consideration the relationship between water depth and
  navigational safety and factors relevant to the local marine environment.
  `(C) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS-
  `(i) FORM- The operator of a pipeline facility abandoned after the date
  of the enactment of this paragraph shall report such abandonment to the
  Secretary in a manner specifying whether the facility has been properly
  abandoned according to applicable Federal and State requirements.
  `(ii) PRE-ENACTMENT ABANDONED PIPELINES- Within 3 years after the date
  of the enactment of this paragraph, the operator of a pipeline facility
  abandoned before the date of the enactment of this paragraph shall report
  to the Secretary reasonably available information, including information
  in the possession of third parties, relating to the abandoned pipeline
  facility. Such information shall include the location, size, date, and
  method of abandonment, whether the pipeline had been properly abandoned
  pursuant to applicable law, and such other relevant information as the
  Secretary may require. The Secretary shall, within 18 months after the
  date of the enactment of this subsection, specify the manner in which such
  information shall be reported.
  `(iii) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY UNITED STATES- The Secretary shall
  ensure that the information reported under clause (ii) is maintained by
  the Federal Government in a manner accessible to the appropriate Federal
  and State agencies.
  `(iv) COLLISIONS- The Secretary shall request that State agencies which
  have information on collisions between vessels and underwater pipeline
  facilities report such information to the Secretary in a timely manner
  and make a reasonable effort to specify the location, date, and severity
  of such collisions. Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, relating
  to coordination of Federal information policies, shall not apply to the
  collection of information under this clause.
  `(D) ABANDONED DEFINED- For purposes of this paragraph, the term `abandoned'
  means permanently removed from service.'.
SEC. 118. NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SAFETY ACT OF 1968 TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  The first section of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1671 note) is amended to read as follows:
`SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  `(a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Natural Gas Pipeline Safety
  Act of 1968'.
  `(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
`Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
`Sec. 2. Definitions.
`Sec. 3. Standards established.
`Sec. 4. Technical Pipeline Safety Standards Committee.
`Sec. 5. State certifications and agreements.
`Sec. 6. Standards for LNG facilities.
`Sec. 7. Financial responsibility for certain LNG activities; studies.
`Sec. 8. Judicial review.
`Sec. 9. Cooperation with Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and State
commissions.
`Sec. 10. Compliance.
`Sec. 11. Penalties.
`Sec. 12. Specific relief.
`Sec. 13. Inspection and maintenance plans.
`Sec. 14. Powers and duties of the Secretary.
`Sec. 15. Natural gas safety cooperation and coordination.
`Sec. 16. Annual report.
`Sec. 17. Appropriations authorized.
`Sec. 18. Consumer education.
`Sec. 19. Citizen's civil action.
`Sec. 20. Minimum requirements for one-call notification systems.
`Sec. 21. Gathering lines.'.
TITLE II--HAZARDOUS  LIQUID PIPELINE SAFETY
SEC. 201. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
  (a) FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS AND REPORTS- Section 203 of the Hazardous
  Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2002) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1) by inserting `and the protection of the environment'
  after `safe transportation of hazardous liquids';
  (2) in subsection (a)(2)(A) by striking `or property' and inserting `,
  property, or the environment'; and
  (3) in subsection (b)(4) by inserting `and the protection of the environment'
  after `contribute to public safety'.
  (b) CORRECTIVE ACTION- Section 209(b) of such Act (49 U.S.C. App. 2008(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `or property,' and inserting `, property,
  or the environment,';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking `or property,' and inserting `,
  property, or the environment,';
  (3) in paragraph (2)(B)--
  (A) by striking `or property,' and inserting `, property, or the
  environment,'; and
  (B) by striking `or property.' and inserting `, property, or the
  environment.';
  (4) in paragraph (3)(C) by inserting `proximity of such areas to
  environmentally sensitive areas,' after `associated with such areas,'; and
  (5) in paragraph (5) by striking `or property.' and inserting `, property,
  or the environment.'.
SEC. 202. ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AND HIGH-DENSITY POPULATION AREAS.
  (a) PIPELINE INVENTORY- Section 203 of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety
  Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2002) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (j)--
  (A) by inserting `(and, to the extent the Secretary considers necessary,
  operators of gathering lines that are not regulated gathering lines as
  such term is defined pursuant to section 220(b))' after `subject to this
  title'; and
  (B) by inserting after the first sentence the following new sentence:
  `Such inventory shall also include an identification of each of the pipeline
  facilities and gathering lines of such operator which pass through an area
  described in regulations issued under subsection (m), whether or not such
  pipeline facility or gathering line is otherwise subject to regulation
  under this Act.'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(m) ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AND HIGH-DENSITY POPULATION AREAS- Not
  later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection,
  the Secretary shall issue regulations establishing criteria for the
  identification, by operators of pipeline facilities and operators of
  gathering lines, of--
  `(1) all pipeline facilities and gathering lines, whether otherwise subject
  to regulation under this Act or not, that are located in areas that are
  described, by the Secretary in consultation with the Administrator of the
  Environmental Protection Agency, as unusually sensitive to environmental
  damage in the event of a pipeline accident; and
  `(2) all pipeline facilities, whether otherwise subject to regulation
  under this Act or not, that--
  `(A) cross a navigable waterway, as such term is defined by the Secretary
  by regulation; or
  `(B) are located in areas that are described in such criteria as high-density
  population areas.
Such regulations shall provide for such identification to be carried out
through the inventory required under subsection (j). In describing areas that
are unusually sensitive to environmental damage, the Secretary shall consider
including earthquake zones and areas subject to substantial ground movements
such as landslides; areas where ground water contamination would be likely in
the event of the rupture of a pipeline facility; freshwater lakes, rivers,
and waterways; and river deltas and other areas subject to soil erosion or
subsidence from flooding or other water action, where pipeline facilities
are likely to become exposed or undermined.'.
  (b) MAPS- Section 203(i)(2) of such Act (49 U.S.C. App. 2002(i)(2)) is
  amended by inserting `including an identification of areas described in
  regulations issued under subsection (m),' after `supplementary geographic
  description,'.
  (c) INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE PLANS- Section 210 of such Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 2009) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b)(4) by inserting `and the protection of the environment'
  after `public safety'; and
  (2) in each of subsections (c)(2)(D) and (d)(2)(D) by inserting `the
  proximity of such areas to areas that are unusually sensitive to
  environmental damage,' after `pipeline facilities are located,'.
SEC. 203. INCREASED INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
  Section 203(k) of the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(k)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), respectively;
  (2) by inserting `(1) FEDERAL SAFETY STANDARDS- ' after `INSPECTION DEVICES-
  ';
  (3) by indenting paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection, and moving such paragraph (1) (including subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), as designated by paragraph (1) of this subsection) 2 ems to the right;
  (4) by adding at the end of paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph
  (2) of this subsection, the following new sentence: `The Secretary may
  extend such regulation to require existing transmission facilities whose
  basic construction would accommodate an instrumented internal inspection
  device to be modified to permit the inspection of such facilities with
  instrumented internal inspection devices.'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) PERIODIC INSPECTIONS- Not later than 3 years after the date of
  the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall issue regulations
  requiring the periodic inspection of each pipeline identified pursuant to
  subsection (m) by the operator of the pipeline. In issuing the regulations,
  the Secretary shall prescribe the circumstances, if any, under which such
  inspections shall be conducted with an instrumented internal inspection
  device. In those circumstances under which an instrumented internal
  inspection device is not required, the Secretary shall require the use of
  an inspection method that is at least as effective as the use of such a
  device in providing for the safety of the pipeline.'.
SEC. 204. TECHNICAL PIPELINE SAFETY STANDARDS COMMITTEE.
  Section 204 of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2003) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(3) by striking the period and inserting `, including
  2 members who have education, background, or experience in environmental
  protection or public safety. At least 1 of the members selected under this
  paragraph shall have no financial interests in the pipeline, petroleum,
  or natural gas industries.'; and
  (2) in subsection (b) by inserting after the sixth sentence the following
  new sentence: `The Committee, if requested by the Secretary, shall make
  recommendations to the Secretary concerning policy development.'.
SEC. 205. OPERATOR TESTING.
  Section 203(c) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(c)) is amended--
  (1) in the second sentence by striking `may' and inserting `shall'; and
  (2) by inserting after the second sentence the following new sentence: `Such
  certification may, as the Secretary considers appropriate, be performed by
  the operator. Such testing and certification shall address the ability to
  recognize and appropriately react to abnormal operating conditions which
  may indicate a dangerous situation or a condition exceeding design limits.'.
SEC. 206. LOW INTERNAL STRESS HAZARDOUS LIQUID PIPELINE FACILITIES.
  Section 203(b) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(b)) is further amended by inserting after paragraph (4)
  the following new sentence:
`In exercising any discretion under this Act, the Secretary shall not
provide an exception to regulation under this Act for any pipeline facility
solely on the basis of the fact that such pipeline facility operates at low
internal stress.'.
SEC. 207. PIPELINE FACILITY INSPECTION AMENDMENTS.
  Section 203(l) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(l)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking `pipeline facility operators described in
  paragraph (1)(A)' and inserting `operators of pipeline facilities described
  in paragraph (3)';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(B) by striking `paragraph (1)(A)' and inserting
  `paragraph (3)';
  (3) in paragraph (3) by striking `periodic inspection program' and all
  that follows through `and its inlets' and inserting the following:
`periodic inspection program of--
  `(A) all offshore pipeline facilities; and
  `(B) any other pipeline facilities which cross under, over, or through
  navigable waters, as such term is defined by the Secretary, if the location
  of such pipeline facilities in such navigable waters could pose a hazard
  to navigation or public safety, as determined by the Secretary';
  (4) in paragraph (4) by striking `offshore pipeline facility' and inserting
  `pipeline facility described in paragraph (3)'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(5) TRANSFER PIPELINE FACILITIES- The Secretary shall not exempt from
  regulation under this Act any offshore pipeline facility solely on the
  basis of the fact that such pipeline facility serves to transfer hazardous
  liquids in underwater pipelines between vessels and onshore facilities.
  `(6) SUPPLEMENTARY INITIAL INSPECTION-
  `(A) REQUIREMENT- Not later than--
  `(i) 3 years after the date of the enactment of this paragraph; or
  `(ii) 6 months after the establishment of standards under subparagraph (D),
whichever occurs first, the operator of each offshore pipeline facility not
described in paragraph (1)(A) shall inspect such pipeline facility and report
to the Secretary on any portion of the pipeline facility which is exposed or
is a hazard to navigation. This subparagraph shall apply only to pipeline
facilities between the high water mark and the point where the subsurface
is under 15 feet of water, as measured from mean low water.
  `(B) EXTENSION- The Secretary may extend the time period for compliance under
  subparagraph (A) with respect to a pipeline facility for an additional period
  of up to 6 months if the operator of the pipeline facility demonstrates
  to the satisfaction of the Secretary that a good faith effort, with due
  diligence and care, has failed to enable compliance with the deadline
  under subparagraph (A).
  `(C) PRIOR INSPECTION RECOGNITION- Any inspection of a pipeline facility
  which has occurred after October 3, 1989, may be used for compliance with
  subparagraph (A) if the inspection conforms to the requirements of that
  subparagraph.
  `(D) ESTABLISHMENT OF STANDARDS- The Secretary shall, within 2 years after
  the date of the enactment of this paragraph, establish, for the purposes
  of this paragraph, standards--
  `(i) for what constitutes an exposed pipeline facility; and
  `(ii) for what constitutes a hazard to navigation.'.
SEC. 208. GATHERING LINES.
  (a) DEFINITION OF TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS LIQUIDS-
  (1) AMENDMENTS- Section 202(3) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety
  Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2001(3)) is amended--
  (A) by striking `any such';
  (B) by inserting `, other than regulated gathering lines,' after `through
  gathering lines'; and
  (C) by inserting `, but such term shall include the movement of hazardous
  liquids through regulated gathering lines' after `any of such facilities'.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
  on the effective date of the regulations required under section 220 of
  the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as added by subsection
  (b) of this section.
  (b) REGULATIONS DEFINING GATHERING LINES- Such Act is further amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 220. GATHERING LINES.
  `(a) GATHERING LINES DEFINED- The Secretary shall, within 2 years after
  the date of the enactment of this section, define by regulation the term
  `gathering lines'.
  `(b) REGULATED GATHERING LINES DEFINED- The Secretary shall, within 3 years
  after the date of the enactment of this section, define by regulation the
  term `regulated gathering lines'. In defining such term, the Secretary
  shall consider such factors as location, length of line from the well
  site, operating pressure, throughput, diameter, and the composition of the
  transported hazardous liquid in determining the types of lines which are
  functionally gathering but which, due to specific physical characteristics,
  warrant regulation under this Act. Such definition shall not include crude
  oil gathering lines that are of a nominal diameter of 6 inches or less,
  are operated at low pressure, and are located in rural areas that are not
  unusually sensitive to environmental damage.'.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents contained in section 1(b)
  of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 is amended by adding
  at the end the following new item:
`Sec. 220. Gathering lines.'.
SEC. 209. REVISED REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) PROPERTY DAMAGE THRESHOLD- Section 205(a) of the Hazardous Liquid
  Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2004(a)) is amended by striking
  `$5,000' and inserting `an amount established by the Secretary'.
  (b) DATE OF ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS- Section 213(a) of such Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 2012(a)) is amended by striking `April 15' and inserting
  `August 15'.
SEC. 210. AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY.
  The first sentence of section 205(a) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline
  Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2004(a)) is amended by striking `when'
  and inserting `to the extent that'.
SEC. 211. ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) MAXIMUM CIVIL PENALTY- Section 208(a)(1) of the Hazardous Liquid
  Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2007(a)(1)) is amended by
  striking `$10,000' and inserting `$25,000'.
  (b) ENFORCEMENT ORDERS- Section 211 of such Act (49 U.S.C. App. 2010)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f) ENFORCEMENT ORDERS- In case of contumacy or refusal to obey a subpoena,
  or refusal to allow officers, employees, or agents authorized by the
  Secretary to enter, conduct inspections, or examine records and properties
  for purposes of determining compliance with this Act, by any person who
  resides, is found, or transacts business within the jurisdiction of any
  district court of the United States, such district court shall, upon the
  request of the Attorney General, acting at the request of the Secretary,
  have jurisdiction to issue to such person an order requiring such person
  to comply forthwith. Failure to obey such an order is punishable by that
  court as a contempt of court.'.
SEC. 212. EMERGENCY FLOW RESTRICTING DEVICES.
  Section 203 of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002) is further amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(n) EMERGENCY FLOW RESTRICTING DEVICES-
  `(1) SURVEY AND ASSESSMENT- The Secretary shall, within 2 years after
  the date of the enactment of this subsection, survey and assess the
  effectiveness of emergency flow restricting devices (including remotely
  controlled valves and check valves) and other procedures, systems, and
  equipment used to detect and locate pipeline ruptures and minimize product
  releases from pipeline facilities.
  `(2) REGULATIONS- Not later than 2 years after the completion of the
  survey and assessment required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
  issue regulations prescribing the circumstances under which operators of
  hazardous liquid pipeline facilities must use emergency flow restricting
  devices and other procedures, systems, and equipment described in paragraph
  (1) on such facilities.'.
SEC. 213. PARTICIPATION IN AGREEMENT PROCEEDINGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 209(b) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety
  Act of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2008(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new paragraph:
  `(6) OPPORTUNITY FOR STATE COMMENT- The Secretary shall provide,
  to appropriate State officials responsible for pipeline safety in any
  State in which a pipeline facility is located, notice and an opportunity
  to comment on any agreement proposed to be entered into by the Secretary
  to resolve a proceeding initiated under this section with respect to such
  pipeline facility. Comment submitted under this paragraph shall incorporate
  comments of affected local officials.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on the 180th day following the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 214. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 214(a) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2013(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (8);
  (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (9) and inserting a
  semicolon; and
  (3) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraphs:
  `(10) $1,600,500 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992;
  `(11) $1,728,500 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993;
  `(12) $1,866,800 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994; and
  `(13) $2,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995.'.
SEC. 215. ADDITIONAL STATE STANDARDS.
  Section 203(d) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(d)) is further amended by inserting `that has submitted
  a current certification under section 205(a)' after `Any State agency'.
SEC. 216. UNDERWATER ABANDONED PIPELINE FACILITIES.
  Section 203(l) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979 (49
  U.S.C. App. 2002(l)) is further amended by adding at the end the following
  new paragraph:
  `(7) ABANDONED PIPELINE FACILITIES-
  `(A) TREATMENT- For the purposes of this subsection, except with respect
  to the initial inspection required under paragraph (1), the term `pipeline
  facilities' includes underwater abandoned pipeline facilities. For the
  purposes of this subsection, in a case where such a pipeline facility has
  no current operator, the most recent operator of such pipeline facility
  shall be deemed to be the operator of such pipeline facility.
  `(B) REGULATIONS-
  `(i) IDENTIFICATION OF HAZARDS- In issuing regulations under paragraph
  (3), the Secretary shall identify what constitutes a hazard to navigation
  with respect to underwater abandoned pipeline facilities.
  `(ii) OTHER REQUIREMENTS- In issuing regulations under paragraphs (3) and
  (4) regarding underwater pipeline facilities abandoned after the date of
  the enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall--
  `(I) include such requirements as will lessen the potential that such
  pipeline facilities will pose a hazard to navigation; and
  `(II) take into consideration the relationship between water depth and
  navigational safety and factors relevant to the local marine environment.
  `(C) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS-
  `(i) FORM- The operator of a pipeline facility abandoned after the date
  of the enactment of this paragraph shall report such abandonment to the
  Secretary in a manner specifying whether the facility has been properly
  abandoned according to applicable Federal and State requirements.
  `(ii) PRE-ENACTMENT ABANDONED PIPELINES- Within 3 years after the date
  of the enactment of this paragraph, the operator of a pipeline facility
  abandoned before the date of the enactment of this paragraph shall report
  to the Secretary reasonably available information, including information
  in the possession of third parties, relating to the abandoned pipeline
  facility. Such information shall include the location, size, date, and
  method of abandonment, whether the pipeline had been properly abandoned
  pursuant to applicable law, and such other relevant information as the
  Secretary may require. Within 18 months after the date of the enactment
  of this paragraph, the Secretary shall specify the manner in which such
  information shall be reported.
  `(iii) MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS BY UNITED STATES- The Secretary shall
  ensure that the information reported under clause (ii) is maintained by
  the Federal Government in a manner accessible to the appropriate Federal
  and State agencies.
  `(iv) COLLISIONS- The Secretary shall request that State agencies which
  have information on collisions between vessels and underwater pipeline
  facilities report such information to the Secretary in a timely manner
  and make a reasonable effort to specify the location, date, and severity
  of such collisions. Chapter 35 of title 44, United States Code, relating
  to coordination of Federal information policies, shall not apply to the
  collection of information under this clause.
  `(D) ABANDONED DEFINED- For purposes of this paragraph, the term `abandoned'
  means permanently removed from service.'.
TITLE III--GENERALLY APPLICABLE PIPELINE SAFETY PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. GRANTS-IN-AID AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 17(c) of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1684(c)) is amended by striking `and $5,500,000 for the fiscal
  year ending September 30, 1991' and inserting `$5,500,000 for the fiscal
  year ending September 30, 1991, $7,750,000 for the fiscal year ending
  September 30, 1992, $7,750,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30,
  1993, $9,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1994, and
  $10,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1995'.
SEC. 302. UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS.
  Section 9001(1)(D) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6991(1)(D))
  is amended to read as follows:
  `(D) pipeline facility (including gathering lines)--
  `(i) which is regulated under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968
  (49 U.S.C. App. 1671 et seq.),
  `(ii) which is regulated under the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act
  of 1979 (49 U.S.C. App. 2001 et seq.), or
  `(iii) which is an intrastate pipeline facility regulated under State
  laws as provided in the provisions of law referred to in clause (i) or
  (ii) of this subparagraph,
and which is determined by the Secretary to be connected to a pipeline or
to be operated or intended to be capable of operating at pipeline pressure
or as an integral part of a pipeline,'.
SEC. 303. PIPELINE ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS.
  Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Independent Safety Board Act of 1974 (49
  U.S.C. App. 1903(a)(1)(D)) is amended by inserting `or significant injury
  to the environment' after `substantial property damage'.
SEC. 304. ONE-CALL ENFORCEMENT.
  (a) ONE-CALL ENFORCEMENT- Section 20 of the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety
  Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1687) is amended by adding at the end the
  following new subsections:
  `(g) VIOLATIONS- Any person who knowingly and willfully--
  `(1) engages in excavation activities--
  `(A) without first using an available one-call notification system
  to determine the location of underground facilities in the area being
  excavated; or
  `(B) without heeding appropriate location information or markings established
  by an operator of a natural gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facility; and
  `(2) subsequently damages--
  `(A) a natural gas pipeline facility resulting in death, serious bodily
  harm, or actual damage to property exceeding $50,000; or
  `(B) a hazardous liquid pipeline facility resulting in death, serious
  bodily harm, actual damage to property exceeding $50,000, or release of
  more than 50 barrels of product,
shall, upon conviction, be subject, for each offense, to a fine under title
18, United States Code, imprisonment for a term not to exceed 5 years, or both.
  `(h) MARKING OF FACILITIES- Upon notification by an operator of a damage
  prevention program or by a contractor, excavator, or other person planning to
  carry out demolition, excavation, tunneling, or construction in the vicinity
  of a natural gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facility, the operator of the
  pipeline facility shall accurately mark, in a reasonable and timely manner,
  the location of the pipeline facilities in the vicinity of such demolition,
  excavation, tunneling, or construction.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Subsections (a)(1) and (c)(1) of section 11 of
  the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (49 U.S.C. App. 1678) are each
  amended by inserting `or section 20(h)' after `section 10(a)'.
  (c) NOTIFICATION OF OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH ADMINISTRATION- The
  Secretary of Transportation shall, in consultation with the Occupational
  Safety and Health Administration, establish procedures to notify such
  Administration of any pipeline accident in which an excavator, causing
  damage to a pipeline, may have violated Occupational Safety and Health
  Administration regulations.
SEC. 305. ADDITIONAL INSPECTORS.
  To the extent and in such amounts as are provided in advance in
  appropriations Acts, the Secretary of Transportation, in fiscal year 1993,
  shall employ and retain thereafter an additional 12 employees for regional or
  field pipeline safety offices above the number of such employees authorized
  for fiscal year 1992. The primary functions of such additional employees
  shall be--
  (1) to provide technical assistance and training to State pipeline inspectors
  and to assist in the review and management of pipeline safety grants;
  (2) to inspect pipeline facilities, including interstate and intrastate
  hazardous liquid pipeline facilities in those States that do not have a
  hazardous liquid pipeline safety program that meets the requirements of
  section 205 (a) or (b) of the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Safety Act of 1979
  (49 U.S.C. App. 2004 (a) or (b));
  (3) to assist the States identified in paragraph (2) in developing hazardous
  liquid pipeline safety programs that meet such requirements; and
  (4) to inspect interstate hazardous liquid pipeline facilities constructed
  before 1971.
SEC. 306. DEVELOPMENT OF UNDERGROUND UTILITY LOCATION TECHNOLOGIES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Transportation shall carry out a research
  and development program on underground utility location technologies.
  (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section $500,000 for fiscal years beginning after
  September 30, 1992. Such sums shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 307. STUDY OF UNDERWATER ABANDONED PIPELINE FACILITIES.
  (a) STUDY- The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with State
  and other Federal agencies having authority over underwater natural gas
  and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities and with pipeline owners and
  operators, the fishing and maritime industries, and other affected groups,
  shall undertake a study of the abandonment of such pipeline facilities. Such
  study shall include--
  (1) a survey of Federal policies and authorities with respect to abandonment
  of such pipeline facilities;
  (2) an analysis of the extent and nature of the problems currently caused
  by such pipeline facilities;
  (3) an analysis of alternative methods and requirements for abandonment
  as well as the relevant costs and other factors associated with those
  alternative methods and requirements;
  (4) an analysis of the navigational, safety, and environmental impacts
  and economic costs associated with the disposition of pipeline facilities
  permanently removed from service;
  (5) an analysis of various factors associated with retroactively imposing
  requirements on previously abandoned pipeline facilities; and
  (6) other matters as may contribute to the development of a recommendation
  for Federal action.
  (b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 3 years after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to
  Congress a report on the results of the study undertaken under this section,
  together with a recommendation for Federal action.
  (c) ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY- Based on the findings of the study undertaken under
  this section,  the Secretary may require, by regulations issued under the
  Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 or the Hazardous Liquid Pipeline
  Safety Act of 1979, operators of facilities abandoned before the date of
  the enactment of this Act to take any  additional appropriate actions to
  prevent hazards to navigation in connection with such facilities.
  (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section $300,000 for fiscal years beginning after
  September 30, 1992. Such funds shall remain available until expended.
TITLE IV--RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 401. RESEARCH AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT- Chapter 1, title 49, United States Code, is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`Sec. 112. Research and Special Programs Administration
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established in the Department of Transportation
  a Research and Special Programs Administration.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATOR-
  `(1) APPOINTMENT- The Administration shall be headed by an Administrator
  who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent
  of the Senate.
  `(2) REPORTING- The Administrator shall report directly to the Secretary.
  `(c) DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR- The Administration shall have a Deputy
  Administrator who shall be appointed by the Secretary of Transportation. The
  Deputy Administrator shall carry out duties and powers prescribed by the
  Administrator.
  `(d) RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADMINISTRATOR- The Administrator of the
  Administration shall be responsible for carrying out the following:
  `(1) HAZMAT TRANSPORTATION SAFETY- Duties and powers vested in the Secretary
  of Transportation with respect to hazardous materials transportation safety,
  except as otherwise delegated by the Secretary.
  `(2) PIPELINE SAFETY- Duties and powers vested in the Secretary with
  respect to pipeline safety.
  `(3) ACTIVITIES OF VOLPE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS CENTER- Duties
  and powers vested in the Secretary with respect to activities of the Volpe
  National Transportation Systems Center.
  `(4) OTHER- Such other duties and powers as the Secretary shall prescribe,
  including such multimodal and intermodal duties as are appropriate.
  `(e) LIMITATION ON STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION- Nothing in this section shall
  affect any delegation of authority, regulation, order, approval, exemption,
  waiver, contract, or other administrative act of the Secretary with
  respect to laws administered through the Research and Special Programs
  Administration of the Department of Transportation on the date of the
  enactment of this section.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The analysis for chapter 1 of such title is
  amended by adding at the end the following new item:
`112. Research and Special Programs Administration.'.
  (c) AMENDMENT TO TITLE 5, UNITED STATES CODE- Section 5314 of title 5,
  United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item:
  `Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration.'.
TITLE V--HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORTATION ACT TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 501. CORRECTION TO REFERENCE TO INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION AND EDUCATION
ASSISTANCE ACT.
  Section 103(8) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1802(8)) is amended by inserting after `Education' the following:
  `Assistance'.
SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS OF HAZMAT EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYER.
  Section 103 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1802) is amended in each of paragraphs (5)(B) and (6)(A)(iii)--
  (1) by striking `reconditions' and inserting `manufactures, reconditions,';
  and
  (2) by inserting `as qualified' after `represented'.
SEC. 503. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO SECTION 106.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 106 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act
  (49 U.S.C. App. 1805) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)(1)(C) by inserting `(in other than a bulk packaging)'
  after `5,000 pounds or more';
  (2) in subsection (c)(8) by inserting `, or carries out an activity at
  more than one location,' after `one activity';
  (3) in subsection (c)(12) by striking `117(h)' and inserting `117A(h)';
  (4) in subsection (d)(5) by striking `this section' and inserting `this
  subsection'; and
  (5) in subsection (d)(5) by inserting `, in quantities established by the
  Secretary,' after `motor carrier'.
  (b) SUBSECTION DESIGNATION AND HEADING- Section 8 of the Hazardous Materials
  Transportation Uniform Safety Act of 1990 is amended by inserting before
  `Section 106' the first place it appears the following: `(a) IN GENERAL- '.
SEC. 504. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO SECTION 115.
  Section 115(a) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1812(a)) is amended by inserting `, 117A, 118,' after `117'.
SEC. 505. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO SECTION 116.
  Section 116 of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1813) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c) by inserting `and' after `alternative routes,'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section, the following definitions
  apply:
  `(1) HIGH-LEVEL RADIOACTIVE WASTE- The term `high-level radioactive waste'
  has the meaning given such term in section 2(12) of the Nuclear Waste
  Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101(12)).
  `(2) SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL- The term `spent nuclear fuel' has the meaning
  given such term in section 2(23) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982
  (42 U.S.C. 10101(23)).'.
SEC. 506. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO SECTION 118.
  Section 118(d) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (49
  U.S.C. App. 1816(d)) is amended by striking `117(h)' and inserting `117A(h)'.
SEC. 507. UNIFORMITY OF STATE MOTOR CARRIER PERMITTING FORMS AND PROCEDURES.
  (a) WORKING GROUP- Section 121(a) of the Hazardous Materials Transportation
  Act (49 U.S.C. App. 1819(a)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `States that' and inserting `a State to';
  (2) in paragraph (1) by striking `, by motor vehicle' and inserting `by
  motor vehicle in such State and for a State to permit the transportation
  of hazardous materials in such State'; and
  (3) in paragraph (2) by inserting `and permit' before `forms and'.
  (b) CONSULTATION REQUIREMENT- Section 121(b) of such Act is amended by
  inserting `and permit' before `requirements'.
SEC. 508. EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN RAIL-MOTOR CARRIER MERGERS.
  Any transaction in which a rail carrier providing transportation subject
  to the jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission under subchapter
  I of chapter 105 of title 49, United States Code (or a person controlled
  by or affiliated with such a rail carrier) seeks to acquire control of
  a motor carrier providing transportation subject to the jurisdiction of
  the Interstate Commerce Commission under subchapter II of chapter 105 of
  such title shall be exempt from the fourth sentence of section 11344(c)
  of such title (1) if, during the period between November 30, 1987, and May
  1, 1992, such rail carrier or person acquired a minority stock interest
  in the motor carrier, and (2) if such rail carrier or person (or a person
  controlled by or affiliated with such rail carrier or person) was authorized
  by the Commission to provide transportation as a motor carrier before the
  acquisition of such minority stock interest.
TITLE VI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. PAGE AVENUE EXTENSION.
  (a) Upon submission of a request by the State of Missouri for Federal
  Highway Administration approval of the Page Avenue Extension project
  (hereinafter cited in this section as `the project'), the Secretary of
  the United States Department of Transportation (hereinafter cited in this
  section as `the Secretary') is authorized to waive the requirements of
  section 138 of title 23, United States Code and section 303 of title 49,
  United States Code, for the alignment designated by the State of Missouri
  as the `Red Alignment', as described in the draft environmental impact
  statement approved by the Federal Highway Administration on May 30, 1990, if:
  (1) the Secretary determines that a final environmental impact statement has
  been completed by the State of Missouri and approved by the Secretary; and
  (2) the State of Missouri enters into an enforceable agreement with
  the Secretary to implement a project mitigation plan that includes, at
  a minimum--
  (A) expansion of the Creve Coeur Lake Memorial Park (hereinafter cited
  in this section as `the Park') in the vicinity of St. Louis, Missouri,
  by at least 50 percent, through acquisition and addition to the Park of
  not less than six hundred acres of land;
  (B) development of a walking and bicycle path that is not less than ten feet
  in width and connects the Park to the KATY Trail State Park in St. Charles
  County, Missouri;
  (C) construction of nature trails in the wooded upland portion of the
  additions to the Park referred to in subparagraph (A);
  (D) development of a Wetland Wildlife area that includes lake areas and
  marshes, trails, observation points, and other environmentally compatible
  features in the Park or in one of the additions to the Park referred to
  in subparagraph (A);
  (E) dredging of Creve Coeur Lake to help remedy a chronic siltation problem
  and to promote fish and wildlife populations;
  (F) construction of a new lake in one of the additions to the Park
  referred to in subparagraph (A) to help alleviate the recurrence of a
  chronic siltation problem in a manner that minimizes, to the maximum extent
  practicable and in accordance with section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution
  Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344), the disturbance of any existing wetlands;
  (G) design and construction of features to minimize the visual and physical
  impact of the project in the vicinity of the Park, consistent, to the extent
  practicable, with recommendations of the design committee established in
  accordance with subsection (c), including--
  (i) the use of textured concrete, as appropriate;
  (ii) the minimization of bridge pier sizing in the elevated portion of
  the project;
  (iii) the use of a bridge design that is more aesthetically pleasing than
  standard elevated roadway designs;
  (iv) construction of bridge siderails with materials that are effective
  noise attenuators to reduce operational noise levels near the bridge;
  (v) design and construction of a drainage system to prevent contamination
  of Creve Coeur Lake and Creve Coeur Creek with pollution from roadway runoff;
  (vi) landscaping of the area between the elevated roadway and Creve Coeur
  Mill Road to enhance visual parameters without compromising road user
  safety; and
  (vii) the placement of signs to direct road users to appropriate park
  entrances and facilities;
  (H) such other mitigation measures as the Secretary may determine are
  appropriate to ensure that the environmental benefits of the project
  mitigation plan exceed the environmental damage associated with the
  project; and
  (I) a monetary contribution by the State of Missouri as may be necessary to
  implement the entire mitigation plan, in an amount not less than $6,000,000,
  including the payment of not less than $250,000 for facility improvements
  in the Park, and all funds to develop and implement the mitigation plan
  shall come from non-Federal sources of funding.
  (b) None of the costs to develop or implement the project mitigation plan
  referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered expenditures pursuant
  to or in satisfaction of the transportation enhancement requirements of
  section 133 of title 23, United States Code (as amended by section 1007
  of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991, Public
  Law 102-240, 105 Stat. 1927-1931).
  (c) The Governor of the State of Missouri shall establish a design
  committee to develop recommendations concerning design and construction
  features to minimize the visual and physical impact of the project in the
  vicinity of the Park. The Committee shall include representatives of local
  elected officials, regional park officials, local community groups, design
  professionals, environmental organizations, and business organizations.
  (d) To the maximum extent practicable, the State of Missouri shall implement
  the project mitigation plan referred to in subsection (a) prior to the
  commencement of construction of the Page Avenue Extension project. At a
  minimum, the mitigation measures specified in subsection (a)(2)(A) and
  (a)(2)(C) shall be completed prior to commencement of construction of the
  Page Avenue Extension project.
  (e) If the project does not comply with all other requirements of Federal
  environmental law that are applicable to the project, including sections
  134 and 135 of title 23, United States Code (as amended by sections 1024
  and 1025 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991,
  Public Law 102-240, 105 Stat. 1955-1962 and 105 Stat. 1962-1965) and all
  other requirements of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
  of 1991 (Public Law 102-240, 105 Stat. 1914 et seq.), any waiver of the
  requirements of section 138 of title 23, United States Code and section
  303 of title 49, United States Code, granted by the Secretary under the
  authority of this section shall be stayed pending a determination by the
  Secretary that the project has been brought into compliance with such
  other requirements. Any determination by the Secretary under the preceding
  sentence shall be subject to judicial review.
SEC. 602. RURAL ACCESS.
  The table contained in section 1106(a)(2) of the Intermodal Surface
  Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (105 Stat. 2037-2042) is amended in
  item number 52, relating to Bedford Springs, Pennsylvania--
  (1) by striking `Bedford Springs,';
  (2) by inserting `in Bedford Springs, Pennsylvania,' after `access road'; and
  (3) by inserting `or other projects in the counties of Bedford, Blair,
  Fulton, and Huntington, as selected by the State of Pennsylvania' after
  `therewith'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.