 
--S.1530--
S.1530
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the integration of employment, training, and related services
provided
by Indian tribal governments.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Indian Employment, Training and Related
  Services Demonstration Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
  The purposes of this Act are to demonstrate how Indian tribal governments
  can integrate the employment, training and related services they provide in
  order to improve the effectiveness of those services, reduce joblessness
  in Indian communities and serve tribally-determined goals consistent with
  the policy of self-determination.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purposes of this Act, the following definitions apply:
  (1) INDIAN TRIBE- The terms `Indian tribe' and `tribe' shall have the
  meaning given the term `Indian tribe' in section 4(e) of the Indian
  Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
  (2) INDIAN- The term `Indian' shall have the meaning given such term in
  section 4(d) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.
  (3) SECRETARY- Except where otherwise provided, the term `Secretary'
  means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 4. INTEGRATION OF SERVICES AUTHORIZED.
  The Secretary of the Interior, in cooperation with the appropriate Secretary
  of Labor, Secretary of Health and Human Services, or Secretary of Education,
  shall, upon the receipt of a plan acceptable to the Secretary of the Interior
  submitted by an Indian tribal government, authorize the tribal government to
  coordinate, in accordance with such plan, its federally funded employment,
  training, and related services programs in a manner that integrates the
  program services involved into a single, coordinated, comprehensive program
  and reduces administrative costs by consolidating administrative functions.
SEC. 5. PROGRAMS AFFECTED.
  The programs that may be integrated in a demonstration project under
  any such plan referred to in section 4  shall include any program under
  which an Indian tribe is eligible for receipt of funds under a statutory
  or administrative formula for the purposes of job training, tribal work
  experience, employment opportunities, or skill development, or any program
  designed for the enhancement of job opportunities or employment training.
SEC. 6. PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
  For a plan to be acceptable pursuant to section 4, it shall--
  (1) identify the programs to be integrated;
  (2) be consistent with the purposes of this Act authorizing the services
  to be integrated in a demonstration project;
  (3) describe a comprehensive strategy which identifies the full range of
  potential employment opportunities on and near the tribal government's
  service area, and the education, training and related services to be
  provided to assist Indian workers to access those employment opportunities;
  (4) describe the way in which services are to be integrated and delivered
  and the results expected from the plan;
  (5) identify the projected expenditures under the plan in a single budget;
  (6) identify the agency or agencies of the tribal government to be involved
  in the delivery of the services integrated under the plan;
  (7) identify any statutory provisions, regulations, policies, or procedures
  that the tribal government believes need to be waived in order to implement
  its plan; and
  (8) be approved by the governing body of the affected tribe.
SEC. 7. PLAN REVIEW.
  Upon receipt of the plan from a tribal government, the Secretary of the
  Interior shall consult with the Secretary of each Federal department
  providing funds to be used to implement the plan, and with the tribal
  government submitting the plan. The parties so consulting shall identify any
  waivers of statutory requirements or of Federal departmental regulations,
  policies, or procedures necessary to enable the tribal government to
  implement its plan. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the
  Secretary of the affected department shall have the authority to waive
  any regulation, policy, or procedure promulgated by that department that
  has been so identified by such tribal government or department, unless
  the Secretary of the affected department determines that such a waiver
  is inconsistent with the purposes of this Act or those provisions of the
  statute from which the program involved derives its authority which are
  specifically applicable to Indian programs.
SEC. 8. PLAN APPROVAL.
  Within 90 days after the receipt of a tribal government's plan by the
  Secretary, the Secretary shall inform the tribal government, in writing,
  of the Secretary's approval or disapproval of the plan. If the plan is
  disapproved, the tribal government shall be informed, in writing, of the
  reasons for the disapproval and shall be given an opportunity to amend
  its plan or to petition the Secretary to reconsider such disapproval.
SEC. 9. JOB CREATION ACTIVITIES AUTHORIZED.
  The plan submitted by a tribal government may involve the expenditure of
  funds for the creation of employment opportunities and for the development
  of the economic resources of the tribal government or of individual Indian
  people if such expenditures are consistent with an overall regional economic
  activity which has a reasonable likelihood of success and consistent with
  the purposes specifically applicable to Indian programs in the statute
  under which the funds are authorized.
SEC. 10. PRIVATE SECTOR TRAINING PLACEMENTS.
  A tribal government participating in a demonstration  program under this
  Act is authorized to utilize funds available under such plan to place
  participants in training positions with private employers and pay such
  participants a training allowance or wage for a period not to exceed 12
  months, if the tribal government obtains a written agreement from the
  private employer to provide on-the-job training to such participants and,
  upon satisfactory completion of the training period, to guarantee permanent
  employment to such participants for a minimum of 12 months.
SEC. 11. FEDERAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
  (a) RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR- Within 180 days
  following the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior,
  the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the
  Secretary of Education shall enter into an interdepartmental memorandum of
  agreement providing for the implementation of the demonstration projects
  authorized under this Act. The lead agency for a demonstration program
  under this Act shall be the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the
  Interior. The responsibilities of the lead agency shall include--
  (1) the use of a single report format related to the plan for the
  individual project which shall be used by a tribal government to report
  on the activities undertaken under the project;
  (2) the use of a single report format related to the projected expenditures
  for the individual project which shall be used by a tribal government to
  report on all project expenditures;
  (3) the development of a single system of Federal oversight for the project,
  which shall be implemented by the lead agency; and
  (4) the provision of technical assistance to a tribal government appropriate
  to the project, except that a tribal government shall have the authority
  to accept or reject the plan for providing such technical assistance and
  the technical assistance provider.
  (b) REPORT REQUIREMENTS- The single report format shall be developed by the
  Secretary, consistent with the requirements of this Act. Such report format,
  together with records maintained on the consolidated program at the tribal
  level shall contain such information as will allow a determination that the
  tribe has complied with the requirements incorporated in its approved plan
  and will provide assurances to each Secretary that the tribe has complied
  with all directly applicable statutory requirements and with those directly
  applicable regulatory requirements which have not been waived.
SEC. 12. NO REDUCTION IN AMOUNTS.
  In no case shall the amount of Federal funds available to a tribal
  government involved in any demonstration project be reduced as a result
  of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 13. INTERAGENCY FUND TRANSFERS AUTHORIZED.
  The Secretary of the Interior, Secretary of Labor, Secretary of Health
  and Human Services, or the Secretary of Education, as appropriate, is
  authorized to take such action as may be necessary to provide for an
  interagency transfer of funds otherwise available to a tribal government
  in order to further the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 14. ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS AND OVERAGE.
  (a) ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Program funds shall be administered in such a manner as to
  allow for a determination that funds from specific programs (or an amount
  equal to the amount attracted from each program) are spent on allowable
  activities authorized under such program.
  (2) SEPARATE RECORDS NOT REQUIRED- Nothing in this section shall be
  construed as requiring the tribe to maintain separate records tracing any
  services or activities conducted under its approved plan to the individual
  programs under which funds were authorized, nor shall the tribe be required
  to allocate expenditures among such individual programs.
  (b) OVERAGE- All administrative costs may be commingled and participating
  Indian tribes shall be entitled to the full amount of such costs (under each
  program or department's regulations), and no overage shall be counted for
  Federal audit purposes, provided that the overage is used for the purposes
  provided for under this Act.
SEC. 15. FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY.
  Nothing in this Act shall be construed so as to interfere with the ability
  of the Secretary or the lead agency to fulfill the responsibilities for
  the safeguarding of Federal funds pursuant to the Single Audit Act of 1984.
SEC. 16. REPORT ON STATUTORY OBSTACLES TO PROGRAM INTEGRATION.
  (a) PRELIMINARY REPORT- Not later than two years after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a preliminary report to
  the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
  Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives on the status
  of the implementation of the demonstration program authorized under this Act.
  (b) FINAL REPORT- Not later than five years after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Select
  Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Interior and
  Insular Affairs and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of
  Representatives on the results of the implementation of the demonstration
  program authorized under this Act. Such report shall identify statutory
  barriers to the ability of tribal governments to integrate more effectively
  their employment, training, and related services in a manner consistent
  with the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 17. LABOR MARKET INFORMATION ON THE INDIAN WORK FORCE.
  (a) REPORT- The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor,
  shall, in a consistent and reliable manner, develop, maintain and publish,
  not less than biennially, a report on the population, by gender, eligible
  for the services which the Secretary provides to Indian people. The report
  shall include, but is not limited to, information at the national level
  by State, Bureau of Indian Affairs Service area, and tribal level for the--
  (1) total service population;
  (2) the service population under age 16 and over 64;
  (3) the population available for work, including those not considered to
  be actively seeking work;
  (4) the employed population, including those employed with annual earnings
  below the poverty line; and
  (5) the numbers employed in private sector positions and in public sector
  positions.
  (b) INDIAN DEMOGRAPHIC INFORMATION- The Secretary, in consultation with the
  Bureau of the Census of the Department of Commerce, and the National Center
  for Native American Studies and Policy Development authorized by Public
  Law 101-301, shall prepare a report on the need for comprehensive, accurate
  and periodically updated information on the size and characteristics of the
  Indian and Alaska Native population throughout the entire United States. This
  report shall include the need for information, together with the cost of
  acquiring such information, on the characteristics and need for education,
  health, housing, job training, and other basic needs of such population,
  and shall take into consideration the need for this information by Indian
  tribes and organizations serving Indians in nonreservation areas. The
  report shall be submitted to the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the
  Senate and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs and the Committee
  on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives not later than 12
  months after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 18. ASSIGNMENT OF FEDERAL PERSONNEL TO STATE INDIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROGRAMS.
  Any State with an economic development program targeted to Indian tribes
  shall be eligible to receive, at no cost to the State, such Federal personnel
  assignments as the Secretary, in accordance with the applicable provisions
  of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, may deem appropriate to
  help ensure the success of such program.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.