 
--S.1593--
S.1593
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To improve the operation and effectiveness of the United States National
Commission
on Libraries and Information Science, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `National Commission on Libraries and Information
 Science Act Amendments of 1991'.
SEC. 2. COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
 Subsection (b) of section 3 of the National Commission on Libraries and
 Information Science Act (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Act')
 (20 U.S.C. 1502(b)) is repealed.
SEC. 3. CONTRIBUTIONS.
 Section 4 of the Act (20 U.S.C.  1503) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 4. CONTRIBUTIONS.
 `The Commission is authorized to accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts,
 bequests, and devises of property, both real and personal, for the purpose
 of aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission. Gifts, bequests,
 and devises of money and proceeds from sales of other property received as
 gifts, bequests, or devises shall be deposited in the Treasury and shall
 be available for disbursement upon the order of the Commission.'.
SEC. 4. FUNCTIONS.
 Paragraph (6) of section 5(a) of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1504(a)(6)) is amended
 by striking `the national communications networks' and inserting `national
 and international communications and cooperative networks'.
SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.
 Subsection (a) of section 6 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1505(a)) is amended--
 (1) after the third sentence thereof, by inserting the following new sentence:
 `A majority of members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for
 conduct of business at official meetings of the Commission.'; and
 (2) in the fourth sentence thereof by striking `(1) the terms of office'
 and all that follows through `time of appointment,' and inserting `(1)
 the term of office of any member of the Commission shall continue until the
 earlier of (A) the date on which the member's successor has been appointed
 by the President; or (B) July 19 of the year succeeding the year in which
 the member's appointed term of office shall expire,'.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 7 of the Act (20 U.S.C. 1506) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 7. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 `There are authorized to be appropriated $911,000 for fiscal year 1992 and
 such sums as may be necessary for each succeeding fiscal year thereafter
 to carry out the provisions of this Act.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.