 
--S.1532--
S.1532
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To revise and extend the programs under the Abandoned Infants Assistance
Act of 1988.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Abandoned Infants Assistance Act Amendments
 of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 Section 2 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670
 note) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking `the vast majority' and inserting `an
 unacceptable number';
 (2) in paragraph (6), by striking `the number of cases' and all that follows
 and inserting the following: `the number of infants and young children who
 are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (which is believed to
 cause acquired immune deficiency syndrome and which is commonly known as HIV)
 or who have been perinatally exposed to the virus or to a dangerous drug;';
 (3) in paragraph (7)--
 (A) by striking `more than 80 percent of' and inserting `many such' before
 `infants'; and
 (B) by striking `with acquired immune deficiency syndrome';
 (4) in paragraph (8)--
 (A) by inserting `such' before `infants'; and
 (B) by striking `with acquired immune deficiency syndrome'; and
 (5)(A) in paragraph (9), by striking `and' at the end;
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11); and
 (C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new paragraph:
 `(10) there is a need to support the families of such infants and young
 children through the provision of services that will prevent the abandonment
 of the infants and children; and'.
SEC. 3. PROGRAM OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS REGARDING INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN
ABANDONED IN HOSPITALS.
 (a) Priority Regarding Certain Infants and Young Children-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Section 101 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988
 (42 U.S.C. 670 note) is amended--
 (A) by redesignating subsections (b) through (f) as subsections (c) through
 (g), respectively; and
 (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) PRIORITY IN PROVISION OF SERVICES- The Secretary may not make a
 grant under subsection (a) unless the applicant for the grant agrees that,
 in carrying out the purpose described in subsection (a) (other than with
 respect to paragraph (6) of such subsection), the applicant will give
 priority to abandoned infants and young children--
 `(1) who are infected with the human immunodeficiency virus or who have
 been perinatally exposed to the virus; or
 `(2) who have been perinatally exposed to a dangerous drug.'.
 (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 101 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance
 Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670 note) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (a)--
 (i) in paragraph (6), by striking `with acquired immune deficiency syndrome'
 and inserting `described in subsection (b)';
 (ii) in each of paragraphs (2), (4), (5), and (7), by striking `, particularly
 those with acquired immune deficiency syndrome'; and
 (iii) in paragraph (3), by striking `, particularly those with acquired
 immune deficiency syndrome,'; and
 (B) in subsection (d)(1) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)(A) of this
 subsection), by striking `(d)' and inserting `(e)'.
 (b) COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE CENTERS- Section 101(a) of the Abandoned Infants
 Assistance Act of 1988, as amended by subsection (a) of this section,
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (6), by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (7), by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(8) to prevent the abandonment of infants and young children, and to care
 for the infants and young children who have been abandoned, through model
 programs providing health, educational, and social services at a single site
 in a geographic area in which a significant number of infants and young
 children described in subsection (b) reside (with special consideration
 given to applications from entities that will provide the services of the
 project through community-based organizations).'.
 (c) OTHER REVISIONS REGARDING PURPOSE OF GRANTS- Section 101(a) of the
 Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988, as amended by subsections (a)
 and (b) of this section, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the semicolon the following: `,
 including the provision of services to members of the natural family for
 any condition that increases the probability of abandonment of an infant
 or young child'; and
 (2) in paragraph (5), by inserting before the semicolon the following:
 `who are unable to reside with their families or to be placed in foster care'.
 (d) ADMINISTRATION OF GRANT- Section 101(d) of the Abandoned Infants
 Assistance Act of 1988, as redesignated and amended by subsection (a)
 of this section, is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as subparagraphs (A) through
 (D);
 (2) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), by
 striking `(d) ADMINISTRATION' and all that follows through `The Secretary'
 and inserting the following:
 `(d) ADMINISTRATION OF GRANT-
 `(1) The Secretary';
 (3) by moving each of subparagraphs (A) through (D) (as so redesignated)
 2 ems to the right; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) Subject to the availability of amounts made available in appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year involved, the duration of a grant under subsection
 (a) shall be for a period of 3 years, except that the Secretary--
 `(A) may terminate the grant if the Secretary determines that the entity
 involved has substantially failed to comply with the agreements required
 as a condition of the provision of the grant; and
 `(B) shall continue the grant for one additional year if the Secretary
 determines that the entity has satisfactorily complied with such agreements.'.
SEC. 4. EVALUATIONS, STUDIES, AND REPORTS BY SECRETARY.
 (a) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION TO INDIVIDUALS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS- Section
 102 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670 note)
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) and (d),
 respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:
 `(b) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION TO INDIVIDUALS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS-
 `(1)(A) The Secretary may enter into contracts or cooperative agreements
 with public or nonprofit private entities for the development and operation
 of model projects to disseminate the information described in subparagraph
 (B) to individuals who are disproportionately at risk of dysfunctional
 behaviors that lead to the abandonment of infants or young children.
 `(B) The information referred to in subparagraph (A) is information on
 the availability to individuals described in such subparagraph, and the
 families of the individuals, of financial assistance and services under
 Federal, State, local, and private programs providing health services,
 mental health services, educational services, housing services, social
 services, or other appropriate services.
 `(2) The Secretary may not provide a contract or cooperative agreement
 under paragraph (1) to an entity unless--
 `(A) the entity has demonstrated expertise in the functions with respect
 to which such financial assistance is to be provided; and
 `(B) the entity agrees that in disseminating information on programs
 described in such paragraph, the entity will give priority--
 `(i) to providing the information to individuals described in such paragraph
 who--
 `(I) engage in the abuse of alcohol or drugs, who are infected with the
 human immunodeficiency virus, or who have limited proficiency in speaking
 the English language; or
 `(II) have been historically underserved in the provision of the information;
 and
 `(ii) to providing information on programs that are operated in the geographic
 area in which the individuals involved reside and that will assist in
 eliminating or reducing the extent of behaviors described in such paragraph.
 `(3) In providing contracts and cooperative agreements under paragraph (1),
 the Secretary may not provide more than 1 such contract or agreement with
 respect to any geographic area.
 `(4) Subject to the availability of amounts made available in appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year involved, the duration of a contract or cooperative
 agreement under paragraph (1) shall be for a period of 3 years, except
 that the Secretary may terminate such financial assistance if the Secretary
 determines that the entity involved has substantially failed to comply with
 the agreements required as a condition of the provision of the assistance.'.
 (b) STUDY- Section 102(c) of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988,
 as amended by subsection (a) of this subsection, is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking `infants who have acquired immune
 deficiency syndrome' and inserting `infants and young children who are
 infants and young children described in section 101(b)'; and
 (2) in paragraph (2), by striking `The Secretary and all that follows
 through `Act,' and inserting the following: `Not later than April 1, 1992,
 the Secretary shall'.
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
 Section 103 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670
 note) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 103. DEFINITIONS.
 `For purposes of this title:
 `(1) The terms `abandoned' and `abandonment', with respect to infants and
 young children, mean that the infants and young children are medically cleared
 for discharge from acute-care hospital settings, but remain hospitalized
 because of a lack of appropriate out-of-hospital placement alternatives.
 `(2) The term `dangerous drug' means a controlled substance, as defined in
 section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act.
 `(3) The term `natural family' shall be broadly interpreted to include
 natural parents, grandparents, family members, guardians, children residing
 in the household, and individuals residing in the household on a continuing
 basis who are in a care-giving situation with respect to infants and young
 children covered under this Act.'.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 104 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670
 note) is amended by striking `For the purpose' and all that follows and
 inserting the following:
 `(a) In General-
 `(1) For the purpose of carrying out this title (other than section 102(b)),
 there are authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
 $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $30,000,000 for fiscal year 1994, and
 $35,000,000 for fiscal year 1995.
 `(2)(A) Of the amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year
 in excess of the amount appropriated under this subsection for fiscal year
 1991, as adjusted in accordance with subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall
 make available not less than 50 percent for grants under section 101(a)
 to carry out projects described in paragraph (8) of such section.
 `(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the amount relating to fiscal year
 1991 shall be adjusted for a fiscal year to a greater amount to the extent
 necessary to reflect the percentage increase in the consumer price index
 for all urban consumers (U.S. city average) for the 12-month period ending
 with March of the preceding fiscal year.
 `(3) Not more than 5 percent of the amounts appropriate under paragraph
 (1) for any fiscal year may be obligated for carrying out section 102(a).
 `(b) DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SPECIAL NEEDS-
 For the purpose of carrying out section 102(b), there is authorized to be
 appropriated $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1992 through 1995.
 `(c) Administrative Expenses-
 `(1) For the purpose of the administration of this title by the Secretary,
 there is authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year specified in
 subsection (a)(1) an amount equal to 5 percent of the amount authorized
 in such subsection to be appropriated for the fiscal year. With respect to
 the amounts appropriated under such subsection, the preceding sentence may
 not be construed to prohibit the expenditure of the amounts for the purpose
 described in such sentence.
 `(2) The Secretary may not obligate any of the amounts appropriated under
 paragraph (1) for a fiscal year unless, from the amounts appropriated under
 subsection (a)(1) for the fiscal year, the Secretary has obligated for the
 purpose described in such paragraph an amount equal to the amounts obligated
 by the Secretary for such purpose in fiscal year 1991.
 `(d) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Amounts appropriated under this section shall
 remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 7. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
 The heading for title I of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988
 (42 U.S.C. 670 note) is amended to read as follows:
`TITLE I--PROJECTS REGARDING ABANDONMENT OF INFANTS AND YOUNG CHILDREN
IN HOSPITALS'.
SEC. 8. TERMINATION OF PROGRAM.
 Section 105 of the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 670
 note) is repealed.
SEC. 9. OLDER WORKERS BENEFIT PROTECTION ACT AMENDMENT.
 Amend section 105 of the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (Public
 Law 101-433) by striking the semicolon at the end of paragraph (b)(1)
 and inserting thereafter the following: `; or that is a result of pattern
 collective bargaining in an industry where the agreement setting the pattern
 was ratified after September 20, 1990, but prior to the date of enactment,
 and the final agreement in the industry adhering to the pattern was ratified
 after the date of enactment, but not later than November 20, 1990;'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.