 
--S.1770--
 S.1770
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To convey certain surplus real property located in the Black Hills National
Forest
to the Black Hills Workshop and Training Center, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF LAND TO BLACK HILLS WORKSHOP AND TRAINING CENTER, INC.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the Federal property and Administrative
 Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.) and any other law which requires
 that property of the United States be used for a particular purpose, the
 Administrator of General Services (hereinafter in this section referred
 to as the `Administrator') shall convey to the Black Hills Workshop and
 Training Center, Inc., of Rapid City, South Dakota (hereinafter in this
 section referred to as the `Center'), all right, title, and interest of the
 United States in certain property under the control of the General Services
 Administration and described in subsection (b).
 (b) PROPERTY DESCRIBED- The property referred to in subsection (a) is real
 property located in section 4, T.IN., R. 7E, BHM, Rapid City, Pennington
 County, South Dakota, and consists of that portion of Lot 3 that has been
 determined to be excess property and one and one-half acres of Lot 2 from
 the southern boundary to a line 200 feet north of the southern boundary,
 as depicted on a map prepared by Fisk Engineering Inc., and approved by
 the Forest Service on October 2, 1990.
 (c) TERMS- A conveyance of property under this section shall be--
 (1) by quitclaim deed;
 (2) completed by the Administrator by as soon as practicable after receipt
 by the Administrator, by not later than 120 days after the date of the
 enactment of this Act, of payment in an amount equal to the fair market
 value of the property, as that value is established by an independent
 appraisal obtained by the Administrator under subsection (d); and
 (3) subject to such other terms and conditions as the Administrator determines
 to be appropriate.
 (d) APPRAISAL- The Administrator shall obtain an independent appraisal of
 the property required to be conveyed under this section by not later than
 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (e) PROCEEDS FROM DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY- Funds received as payment for
 the property shall be treated as proceeds from a sale of surplus property.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.