 
--S.1766--
S.1766
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To add to the area in which the Capitol Police have law enforcement authority,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND SUNDRY ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 101. LAW ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF THE CAPITOL POLICE.
  The Act entitled `An Act to define the area of the United States Capitol
  Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes', approved
  July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 212a) is amended by inserting after section 9A
  the following new section:
  `SEC. 9B. (a) Subject to such regulations as may be prescribed by the Capitol
  Police Board and approved by the Committee on House Administration of the
  House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of
  the Senate, a member of the Capitol Police shall have authority to make
  arrests and otherwise enforce the laws of the United States, including
  the laws of the District of Columbia--
  `(1) within the District of Columbia, with respect to any crime of violence
  committed within the United States Capitol Grounds;
  `(2) within the District of Columbia, with respect to any crime of violence
  committed in the presence of the member, if the member is in the performance
  of official duties when the crime is committed;
  `(3) within the District of Columbia, to prevent imminent loss of life
  or injury to person or property, if the officer is in the performance of
  official duties when the authority is exercised; and
  `(4) within the area described in subsection (b).
  `(b) The area referred to in subsection (a)(4) is that area bounded by the
  north curb of H Street from 3rd Street, N.W. to 7th Street, N.E., the east
  curb of 7th Street from H Street, N.E., to M Street, S.E., the south curb
  of M Street from 7th Street, S.E. to 1st Street, S.E., the east curb of
  1st Street from M Street, S.E. to Potomac Avenue S.E., the southeast curb of
Potomac Avenue from 1st Street, S.E. to South Capitol Street, S.W., the west
curb of South Capitol Street from Potomac Avenue, S.W. to P Street, S.W.,
the north curb of P Street from South Capitol Street, S.W. to 3rd Street,
S.W., and the west curb of 3rd Street from P Street, S.W. to H Street, N.W.
  `(c) This section does not affect the authority of the Metropolitan Police
  force of the District of Columbia with respect to the area described in
  subsection (b).
  `(d) As used in this section, the term `crime of violence' has the meaning
  given that term in section 16 of title 18, United States Code.'.
SEC. 102. UNIFIED PAYROLL ADMINISTRATION FOR THE CAPITOL POLICE.
  The Act entitled `An Act to define the area of the United States Capitol
  Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes', approved
  July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 212a), as amended by section 101, is further
  amended by inserting after section 9B the following new section:
  `SEC. 9C. Payroll administration for the Capitol Police and civilian support
  personnel of the Capitol Police shall be carried out on a unified basis by a
  single disbursing authority. The Capitol Police Board, with the approval of
  the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives and the
  Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate, acting jointly, shall,
  by contract or otherwise, provide for such unified payroll administration.'.
SEC. 103. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
  Effective November 5, 1990, section 106(a) of Public Law 101-520 is amended
  by striking out `(a) The' and inserting in lieu thereof `Section 9 of the'.
SEC. 104. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  The unified payroll administration under the amendment made by section 102
  shall apply with respect to pay periods beginning after September 30, 1992.
TITLE II--LUMP-SUM PAYMENT PROVISIONS
SEC. 201. DEFINITIONS.
  For the purpose of this title--
  (1) the term `officer' includes all personnel of the rank of lieutenant
  or higher, including inspector;
  (2) the term `member' includes all personnel below the rank of lieutenant,
  including detectives; and
  (3) the term `Clerk of the House of Representatives' or `Clerk' includes
  a successor in function to the Clerk.
SEC. 202. LUMP-SUM PAYMENT FOR ACCUMULATED AND CURRENT ACCRUED ANNUAL LEAVE.
  An officer or member of the United States Capitol Police who separates from
  service within the 2-year period beginning on the date of the enactment
  of this title and who, at the time of separation, satisfies the age and
  service requirements for title to an immediate annuity under subchapter
  III of chapter 83 or chapter 84 of title 5, United States Code, shall be
  entitled to receive a lump-sum payment for the accumulated and current
  accrued annual leave to which that individual is entitled, but only to
  the extent that such leave is attributable to service performed by such
  individual as an officer or member of the Capitol Police.
SEC. 203. PROCEDURES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- A payment under this title shall be paid--
  (1) in the case of an officer or member whose pay (for service last
  performed before separation) is disbursed by the Clerk of the House of
  Representatives--
  (A) by the Clerk;
  (B) after appropriate certification is made to the Clerk by the Sergeant
  at Arms of the House of Representatives; and
  (C) out of funds available to pay the salaries of officers and members of
  the Capitol Police whose pay is disbursed by the Clerk; and
  (2) in the case of an officer or member whose pay (for service last
  performed before separation) is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate--
  (A) by the Secretary of the Senate;
  (B) after appropriate certification is made to the Secretary of the Senate
  by the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate; and
  (C) out of funds available to pay the salaries of officers and members of
  the Capitol Police whose pay is disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.
  (b) CERTIFICATION- Any certification under subsection (a)(1)(B) or (a)(2)(B)
  shall state the total of the accumulated and current accrued annual leave,
  to the credit of the officer or member involved, which may be taken into
  account for purposes of a computation under subsection (c).
  (c) COMPUTATION- (1) The amount of a lump-sum payment under this title shall
  be determined by multiplying the hourly rate of basic pay of the officer or
  member involved by the number of hours certified with respect to such officer
  or member in accordance with the preceding provisions of this section.
  (2) The hourly rate of basic pay of an officer or member shall, for
  purposes of this title, be determined by dividing 2,080 into the annual
  rate of basic pay last payable to such officer or member before separating.
  (d) TREATMENT AS PAY- A lump-sum payment under this title shall be considered
  to be pay for taxation purposes only.
  (e) CLARIFICATION- For purposes of this title, the terms `officer' and
  `member' may not be construed to include any civilian employee.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.