 
--S.1891--
S.1891
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To permit the Secretary of Health and Human Services to waive certain recovery
requirements with respect to the construction or remodeling of facilities,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. WAIVER OF CERTAIN RECOVERY REQUIREMENTS.
 Section 2713(d) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300aaa-12(d))
 is amended by striking `(a)(2)' and inserting `(a)'.
SEC. 2. USE BY STATES OF FORFEITED REAL PROPERTY FOR STATE PARKS OR RELATED
PURPOSES.
 Section 511(e) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 881(e))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `sell,' and inserting `except as
 provided in paragraph (4), sell,'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(4)(A) With respect to real property described in subparagraph (B), if the
 chief executive officer of the State involved submits to the Attorney General
 a request for purposes of such subparagraph, the authority established in
 such subparagraph is in lieu of the authority established in paragraph (1)(B).
 `(B) In the case of property described in paragraph (1)(B) that is civilly
 or criminally forfeited under this title, if the property is real property
 that is appropriate for use as a public area reserved for recreational
 or historic purposes or for the preservation of natural conditions, the
 Attorney General, upon the request of the chief executive officer of the
 State in which the property is located, may transfer title to the property
 to the State, either without charge or for a nominal charge, through a
 legal instrument providing that--
 `(i) such use will be the principal use of the property; and
 `(ii) title to the property reverts to the United States in the event that
 the property is used otherwise.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.