 
--S.2044--
S.2044
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To assist Native Americans in assuring the survival and continuing vitality of
their languages.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act, other than section 4, may be cited as the `Native American
  Languages Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. GRANT PROGRAM.
  The Native American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2991 et seq.) is
  amended by inserting before section 804 the following:
`SEC. 803C. GRANT PROGRAM TO ENSURE THE SURVIVAL AND CONTINUING VITALITY OF
NATIVE AMERICAN LANGUAGES.
  `(a) AUTHORITY TO AWARD GRANTS- The Secretary shall award a grant to any
  agency or organization that is--
  `(1) eligible for financial assistance under section 803(a); and
  `(2) selected under subsection (c);
to be used to assist Native Americans in ensuring the survival and continuing
vitality of Native American languages.
  `(b) PURPOSES FOR WHICH GRANTS MAY BE USED- The purposes for which each grant
  awarded under subsection (a) may be used include, but are not limited to--
  `(1) the establishment and support of a community Native American language
  project to bring older and younger Native Americans together to facilitate
  and encourage the transfer of Native American language skills from one
  generation to another;
  `(2) the establishment of a project to train Native Americans to teach  a
  Native American language to others or to enable them to serve as interpreters
  or translators of such language;
  `(3) the development, printing, and dissemination of materials to be used
  for the teaching and enhancement of a Native American language;
  `(4) the establishment or support of a project to train Native Americans
  to produce or participate in a television or radio program to be broadcast
  in a Native American language;
  `(5) the compilation, transcription, and analysis of oral testimony to
  record and preserve a Native American language; and
  `(6) the purchase of equipment (including audio and video recording
  equipment, computers, and software) required to conduct a Native American
  language project.
  `(c) APPLICATIONS- For the purpose of making grants under subsection (a),
  the Secretary shall select applicants from among agencies and organizations
  described in such subsection on the basis of applications submitted to the
  Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the
  Secretary shall require, but each application shall include at a minimum--
  `(1) a detailed description of the current status of the Native American
  language to be addressed by the project for which a grant under subsection
  (a) is requested, including a description of existing programs and projects,
  if any, in support of such language;
  `(2) a detailed description of the project for which such  grant is
  requested;
  `(3) a statement of objectives that are consonant with the purpose described
  in subsection (a);
  `(4) a detailed description of a plan to be carried out by the applicant
  to evaluate such project, consonant with the purpose for which such grant
  is made;
  `(5) if appropriate, an identification of opportunities for the replication
  of such project or the modification of such project for use by other Native
  Americans; and
  `(6) a plan for the preservation of the products of the Native American
  language project for the benefit of future generations of Native Americans
  and other interested persons.
  `(d) PARTICIPATING ORGANIZATIONS- If a tribal organization or other
  eligible applicant decides that the objectives of its proposed Native
  American language project would be accomplished more effectively through a
  partnership arrangement with a school, college, or university, the applicant
  shall identify  such school, college, or university as a participating
  organization in the application submitted under subsection (c).
  `(e) LIMITATIONS ON FUNDING-
  `(1) SHARE- Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a grant
  made under subsection (a) may not be expended to pay more than 80 percent
  of the cost of the project that is assisted by such grant. Not less than
  20 percent of such cost--
  `(A) shall be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant,
  equipment, or services; and
  `(B)(i) may be provided from any private or non-Federal source; and
  `(ii) may include funds (including interest) distributed to a tribe--
  `(I) by the Federal Government pursuant to the satisfaction of a claim
  made under Federal law;
  `(II) from funds collected and administered by the Federal Government on
  behalf of such tribe or its constituent members; or
  `(III) by the Federal Government for general tribal administration or tribal
  development under a formula or subject to a tribal budgeting priority
  system, such as, but not limited to, funds involved in the settlement
  of land or other judgment claims, severance or other royalty payments,
  or payments under the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450f et
  seq.) or tribal budget priority system.
  `(2) DURATION- The Secretary may make grants made under subsection (a)
  on a 1-year, 2-year, or 3-year basis.
  `(f) ADMINISTRATION- (1) The Secretary shall carry out this section through
  the Administration for Native Americans.
  `(2)(A) Not later than 180 days after the effective date of this section,
  the Secretary shall appoint a panel of experts for the purpose of assisting
  the Secretary to review--
  `(i) applications submitted under subsection (a);
  `(ii) evaluations carried out to comply with subsection (c)(4); and
  `(iii) the preservation of products required by subsection (c)(5).
  `(B) Such panel shall include, but not be limited to--
  `(i) a designee of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native
  Culture and Arts Development;
  `(ii) a designee of the regional centers funded under section 5135 of the
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 3215);
  `(iii) representatives of national, tribal, and regional organizations that
  focus on Native American language, or Native American cultural, research,
  development, or training; and
  `(iv) other individuals who are recognized for their expertise in the area
  of Native American language.
Recommendations for appointment to such panel shall be solicited from Indian
tribes and tribal organizations.
  `(C) The duties of such panel include--
  `(i) making recommendations regarding the development and implementation
  of regulations, policies, procedures, and rules of general applicability
  with respect to the administration of this section;
  `(ii) reviewing applications received under subsection (c);
  `(iii) providing to the Secretary a list of recommendations for the approval
  of such applications--
  `(I) in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary; and
  `(II) the relative need for the project; and
  `(iv) reviewing evaluations submitted to comply with subsection (c)(4).
  `(D)(i) Subject to clause (ii), a copy of the products of the Native
  American language project for which a grant is made under subsection (a)--
  `(I) shall be transmitted to the Institute of American Indian and Alaska
  Native Culture and Arts Development; and
  `(II) may be transmitted, in the discretion of the grantee, to national
  and regional repositories of similar material;
for preservation and use consonant with their respective responsibilities
under other Federal law.
  `(ii) Based on the Federal recognition of the sovereign authority of
  Indian tribes over all aspects of their cultures and language and except
  as provided in clause (iii), an Indian tribe may make a determination--
  `(I) not to transmit copies of such products under clause (i) or not to
  permit the redistribution of such copies; or
  `(II) to restrict in any manner the use or redistribution of such copies
  after transmission under such clause.
  `(iii) Clause (ii) shall not be construed to authorize Indian tribes--
  `(I) to limit the access of the Secretary to such products for purposes
  of administering this section or evaluating such products; or
  `(II) to sell such products, or copies of such products, for profit to
  the entities referred to in clause (i).'.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 816 of the Native American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2992d)
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `803C' after `803A' each place it appears; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following:
  `(f) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 803C,
  $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997.'.
SEC. 4. NATIVE AMERICANS EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE ACT.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Native Americans
  Educational Assistance Act'.
  (b) AGREEMENT TO CARRY OUT DEMONSTRATION PROJECT- The Secretary of the
  Interior is authorized to enter into an agreement with a nonprofit captioning
  agency engaged in manufacturing and distributing captioning decoders,
  for the purpose of carrying out a demonstration project to determine the
  effectiveness of captioned educational materials as an educational tool
  in schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
  (c) REPORT- Prior to the expiration of the 12-month period following
  the date of the agreement entered into pursuant to subsection (b), the
  Secretary of the Interior shall report to the Congress the results of the
  demonstration project carried out pursuant to such agreement, together
  with recommendations of the Secretary.
  (d) AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as
  may be necessary to carry out this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.