 
--S.2050--
S.2050
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To ensure that the ceiling established with respect to health education
assistance loans does not prohibit the provision of Federal loan insurance
to new and previous borrowers under such loan program, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. HEALTH EDUCATION ASSISTANCE LOANS.
 Notwithstanding section 728(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42
 U.S.C. 294a(a)), or any other provision of law, Federal loan insurance may
 be provided under subpart I of part C of title VII of the Public Health
 Service Act for loans to new and previous borrowers under such subpart in
 fiscal year 1992. With respect to fiscal year 1992, the ceiling referred
 to in such section 728(a) shall be $290,000,000, as provided for in the
 Act entitled `An Act making appropriations for the Departments of Labor,
 Health and Human Services, and Education, and related agencies, for the
 fiscal year ending September 30, 1992, and for other purposes.'.
SEC. 2. PILOT PROGRAM IN CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Commissioner of Food and Drugs is authorized to
 award through a competitive bid process a grant for a pilot program for
 the training of individuals in clinical pharmacology at an appropriate
 medical school without such a program. Such grant shall be for the purpose
 of evaluating the extent to which such a program can contribute to an
 identifiable increase in the number of trained biomedical, scientific
 personnel in clinical pharmacology.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 for fiscal years 1992 through 1996 $750,000 for each fiscal year to carry
 out this section.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.