 
--S.2079--
 S.2079
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish the Marsh-Billings National Historical Park in the State
of Vermont,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Marsh-Billings National Historical Park
 Establishment Act'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSES.
 The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to interpret the history and evolution of conservation stewardship
 in America;
 (2) to recognize and interpret the contributions and birthplace of George
 Perkins Marsh, pioneering environmentalist, author of Man and Nature,
 statesman, lawyer, and linguist;
 (3) to recognize and interpret the contributions of Frederick Billings,
 conservationist, pioneer in reforestation and scientific farm management,
 lawyer, philanthropist, and railroad builder, who extended the principles
 of land management introduced by Marsh;
 (4) to preserve the Marsh-Billings Mansion and its surrounding lands; and
 (5) to recognize the significant contributions of Julia Billings, Mary
 Billings French, Mary French Rockefeller, and Laurance Spelman Rockefeller
 in perpetuating the Marsh-Billings heritage.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF MARSH-BILLINGS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
 (a) IN GENERAL- There is established as a unit of the National Park System
 the Marsh-Billings National Historical Park in Windsor County, Vermont
 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `park').
 (b) BOUNDARIES AND MAP- (1) The park shall consist of a historic zone,
 including the Marsh-Billings Mansion, surrounding buildings and a portion
 of the area known as `Mt. Tom', comprising approximately 555 acres, and a
 protection zone, including the areas presently occupied by the Billings Farm
 and Museum, comprising approximately 88 acres, all as generally depicted
 on the map entitled `Marsh-Billings National Historical Park Boundary Map'
 and dated November 19, 1991.
 (2) The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for
 public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service,
 Department of the Interior.
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF PARK.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Secretary') shall administer the park in accordance
 with this Act, and laws generally applicable to units of the National Park
 System, including, but not limited to the Act entitled `An Act to establish
 a National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved August 25, 1916
 (16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4).
 (b) ACQUISITION OF LANDS- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the
 Secretary is authorized to acquire lands or interests therein within the
 park only by donation.
 (2) If the Secretary determines that lands within the protection zone are
 being used, or there is an imminent threat that such lands will be used, for
 a purpose that is incompatible with the purposes of this Act, the Secretary
 may acquire such lands or interests therein by means other than donation.
 (3) The Secretary may acquire lands within the historic zone subject to
 terms and easements providing for the management and commercial operation
 of existing hiking and cross-country ski trails by the grantor, and the
 grantor's successors and assigns, such terms and easements shall be in a
 manner consistent with the purposes of the historic zone. Any changes in
 the operation and management of existing trails shall be subject to approval
 by the Secretary.
 (c) HISTORIC ZONE- The primary purposes of the historic zone shall be
 preservation, education, and interpretation.
 (d) PROTECTION ZONE- (1) The primary purpose of the protection zone
 shall be to preserve the general character of the setting across from the
 Marsh-Billings Mansion in such a manner and by such means as will continue
 to permit current and future compatible uses.
 (2) The Secretary shall pursue protection and preservation alternatives for
 the protection zone by working with affected State and local governments and
 affected landowners to develop and implement land use practices consistent
 with this Act.
SEC. 5. MARSH-BILLINGS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK SCENIC ZONE.
 (a) IN GENERAL- There is established the Marsh-Billings National Historical
 Park Scenic Zone (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `scenic zone'),
 which shall include those lands as generally depicted on the map entitled
 `Marsh-Billings National Historical Park Scenic Zone Map' and dated November
 19, 1991.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of the scenic zone shall be to protect portions of
 the natural setting beyond the park boundaries that are visible from the
 Marsh-Billings Mansion, by such means and in such a manner as will permit
 current and future compatible uses.
 (c) ACQUISITION OF SCENIC EASEMENTS- Within the boundaries of the scenic zone,
 the Secretary is authorized only to acquire scenic easements by donation.
SEC. 6. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with
 such persons or entities as the Secretary determines to be appropriate for
 the preservation, interpretation, management, and providing of educational
 and recreational uses for the properties in the park and the scenic zone.
 (b) FACILITIES- The Secretary, through cooperative agreements with owners
 or operators of land and facilities in the protection zone, may provide
 for facilities in the protection zone to support activities within the
 historic zone.
SEC. 7. ENDOWMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- In accordance with the provisions of subsection (b), the
 Secretary is authorized to receive and expend funds from an endowment to
 be established with the Woodstock Foundation, or its successors and assigns.
 (b) CONDITIONS- (1) Funds from the endowment referred to in subsection
 (a) shall be expended exclusively as the Woodstock Foundation, or its
 successors and assigns, in consultation with the Secretary, may designate
 for the preservation and maintenance of the Marsh-Billings Mansion and its
 immediate surrounding property.
 (2) No expenditure shall be made pursuant to this section unless the Secretary
 determines that such expenditure is consistent with the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 8. RESERVATION OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
 In acquiring land within the historic zone, the  Secretary may permit an owner
 of improved residential property within the boundaries of the historic zone
 to retain a right of use and occupancy of such property for noncommercial
 residential purposes for a term not to exceed 25 years or a term ending at
 the death of the owner, or the owner's spouse, whichever occurs last. The
 owner shall elect the term to be reserved.
SEC. 9. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.
 Not later than 3 complete fiscal years after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary shall develop and transmit a general management
 plan for the park to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the
 United States House of Representatives and to  the Committee on Energy and
 Natural Resources of the United States Senate.
SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.