 
--S.2184--
S.2184
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National
Environ-
mental Policy Foundation, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence
 in National Environmental and Native American Public Policy Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. REPEAL OF PREVIOUS LEGISLATION.
 The Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental
 Policy Act, S. 1176, One Hundred Second Congress, is hereby repealed.
SEC. 3. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) for three decades, Congressman Morris K. Udall has served his country
 with distinction and honor;
 (2) Congressman Morris K. Udall has had a lasting impact on this Nation's
 environment, public lands, and natural resources, and has instilled in this
 Nation's youth a love of the air, land, and water;
 (3) Congressman Morris K. Udall has been a champion of the rights of Native
 Americans and Alaska Natives and has used his leadership in the Congress
 to strengthen tribal self-governance; and
 (4) it is a fitting tribute to the leadership, courage, and vision Congressman
 Morris K. Udall exemplifies to establish in his name programs to encourage
 the continued use, enjoyment, education, and exploration of our Nation's
 rich and bountiful natural resources.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `Board' means the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall
 Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
 established under section 5(b);
 (2) the term `Center' means the Udall Center for Studies in Public Policy
 established at the University of Arizona in 1987;
 (3) the term `eligible individual' means a citizen or national of the United
 States or a permanent resident alien of the United States;
 (4) the term `Foundation' means the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence
 in National Environmental Policy Foundation established under section 5(a);
 (5) the term `fund' means the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence
 in National Environmental Policy Trust Fund established in section 8;
 (6) the term `institution of higher education' has the same meaning given
 to such term by section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965; and
 (7) the term `State' means each of the several States, the District of
 Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the
 Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federal
 States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau (until the Compact of Free
 Association is ratified).
SEC. 5. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FOUNDATION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is established as an independent entity of the
 executive branch of the United States Government, the Morris K. Udall
 Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation.
 (b) BOARD OF TRUSTEES- The Foundation shall be subject to the supervision and
 direction of the Board of Trustees. The Board shall be comprised of twelve
 trustees, eleven of whom shall be voting members of the Board, as follows:
 (1) Two Trustees, shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
 consent of the Senate, after considering the recommendation of the Speaker
 of the House of Representatives, in consultation with the Minority Leader
 of the House of Representatives.
 (2) Two Trustees, shall be appointed by the President, with the advice and
 consent of the Senate, after considering the recommendation of the President
 pro tempore of the Senate, in consultation with the Majority and Minority
 Leaders of the Senate.
 (3) Five Trustees, not more than three of whom shall be of the same political
 party, shall be appointed by the President with the advice and consent of
 the Senate, who have shown leadership and interest in--
 (A) the continued use, enjoyment, education, and exploration of our Nation's
 rich and bountiful natural resources, such as presidents of major foundations
 involved with the environment; or
 (B) in the improvement of the health status of Native Americans and Alaska
 Natives and in strengthening tribal self-governance, such as tribal leaders
 involved in health and public policy development affecting Native American
 and Alaska Native communities.
 (4) The Secretary of the Interior, or the Secretary's designee, who shall
 serve as a voting ex officio member of the Board but shall not be eligible
 to serve as Chairperson.
 (5) The Secretary of Education, or the Secretary's designee, who shall
 serve as a voting ex officio member of the Board but shall not be eligible
 to serve as Chairperson.
 (6) The President of the University of Arizona shall serve as a nonvoting,
 ex officio member and shall not be eligible to serve as chairperson.
 (c) Term of Office-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The term of office of each member of the Board shall be
 six years, except that--
 (A) in the case of the Trustees first taking offices--
 (i) as designated by the President, one Trustee appointed pursuant to
 section 5(b)(2) and two trustees appointed pursuant to section 5(b)(3)
 shall each serve two years; and
 (ii) as designated by the President, one Trustee appointed pursuant to
 section 5(b)(1) and two Trustees appointed pursuant to section 5(b)(3)
 shall each serve four years; and
 (iii) as designated by the President, one Trustee appointed pursuant to
 section 5(b)(1), one Trustee appointed pursuant to section 5(b)(2), and one
 Trustee appointed pursuant to section 5(b)(3) shall each serve six years; and
 (B) a Trustee appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the
 term for which the Trustee's predecessor was appointed and shall be appointed
 in the same manner as the original appointment for that vacancy was made.
 (d) TRAVEL AND SUBSISTENCE PAY- Trustees shall serve without pay, but shall
 be entitled to reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary
 expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
 (e) LOCATION OF FOUNDATION- The Foundation shall be located in Tucson,
 Arizona.
 (f) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR-
 (1) IN GENERAL- There shall be an Executive Director of the Foundation who
 shall be appointed by the Board. The Executive Director shall be the chief
 executive officer of the Foundation and shall carry out the functions of
 the Foundation subject to the supervision and direction of the Board. The
 Executive Director shall carry out such other functions consistent with
 the provisions of this Act as the Board shall prescribe.
 (2) COMPENSATION- The Executive Director of the Foundation shall be
 compensated at the rate specified for employees in level IV of the Executive
 Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 6. PURPOSE OF THE FOUNDATION.
 It is the purpose of the Foundation to--
 (1) increase awareness of the importance of and promote the benefit and
 enjoyment of the Nation's natural resources;
 (2) foster among the American population greater recognition and understanding
 of the role of the environment, public lands and resources in the development
 of the United States;
 (3) identify critical environmental issues;
 (4) establish a Program for Environmental Policy Research and an Environmental
 Conflict Resolution at the Center;
 (5) develop resources to properly train professionals in the environmental
 and related fields;
 (6) provide educational outreach regarding environmental policy; and
 (7) develop resources to properly train Native American and Alaska Native
 professionals in health care and public policy.
SEC. 7. AUTHORITY OF THE FOUNDATION.
 (a) AUTHORITY OF THE FOUNDATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- (A) The Foundation, in consultation with the Center, is
 authorized to identify and conduct such programs, activities, and services
 as the Foundation considers appropriate to carry out the purposes described
 in section 6. The Foundation shall have the authority to award scholarships,
 fellowships, internships, and grants and fund the Center to carry out and
 manage other programs, activities and services.
 (B) The Foundation may provide, directly or by contract, for the conduct of
 national competition for the purpose of selecting recipients of scholarships,
 fellowships, internships, and grants awarded under this Act.
 (C) The Foundation may award scholarships, fellowships, internships and
 grants to eligible individuals in accordance with the provisions of this
 Act for study in fields related to the environment and Native American
 and Alaska Native health care and tribal public policy. Such scholarships,
 fellowships, internships and grants shall be awarded to eligible individuals
 who meet the minimum criteria established by the Foundation.
 (2) SCHOLARSHIPS- (A) Scholarships shall be awarded to outstanding
 undergraduate students who intend to pursue careers related to the environment
 and to outstanding Native American and Alaska Native undergraduate students
 who intend to pursue careers in health care and tribal public policy.
 (B) An eligible individual awarded a scholarship under this Act may receive
 payments under this Act only during such periods as the Foundation finds
 that the eligible individual is maintaining satisfactory proficiency and
 devoting full time to study or research and is not engaging in gainful
 employment other than employment approved by the Foundation pursuant to
 regulations of the Board.
 (C) The Foundation may require reports containing such information, in
 such form, and to be filed at such times as the Foundation determines to
 be necessary from any eligible individual awarded a scholarship under this
 Act. Such reports shall be accompanied by a certificate from an appropriate
 official at the institution of higher education, approved by the Foundation,
 stating that such individual is making satisfactory progress in, and is
 devoting essentially full time to study or research, except as otherwise
 provided in this subsection.
 (3) FELLOWSHIPS- Fellowships shall be awarded to--
 (A) outstanding graduate students who intend to pursue advanced degrees in
 fields related to the environment and to outstanding Native American and
 Alaska Native graduate students who intend to pursue advanced degrees in
 health care and tribal public policy, including law and medicine; and
 (B) faculty from a variety of disciplines to bring the expertise of such
 faculty to the Foundation.
 (4) INTERNSHIPS- Internships shall be awarded to--
 (A) deserving and qualified individuals to participate in internships in
 Federal, State and local agencies or in offices of major environmental
 organizations pursuant to section 6; and
 (B) deserving and qualified Native American and Alaska Native individuals to
 participate in internships in Federal, State and local agencies or in offices
 of major public health or public policy organizations pursuant to section 6.
 (5) GRANTS- The Foundation shall award grants to the Center--
 (A) to provide for an annual panel of experts to discuss contemporary
 environmental issues;
 (B) to conduct environmental policy research;
 (C) to conduct research on Native American and Alaska Native health care
 issues and tribal public policy issues; and
 (D) for visiting policymakers to share the practical experiences of such
 for visiting policymakers with the Foundation.
 (6) REPOSITORY- The Foundation shall provide direct or indirect assistance
 from the proceeds of the Fund to the Center to maintain the current site
 of the repository for Morris K. Udall's papers and other such public papers
 as may be appropriate and assure such papers' availability to the public.
 (7) COORDINATION- The Foundation shall assist in the development and
 implementation of a Program for Environmental Policy Research and
 Environmental Conflict Resolution to be located at the Center.
 (b) MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARS- Recipients of scholarships, fellowships,
 internships, and grants under this Act shall be known as `Morris K. Udall
 Scholars'.
 (c) PROGRAM PRIORITIES- The Foundation shall determine the priority of the
 programs to be carried out under this Act and the amount of funds to be
 allocated for such programs. However, not less than 50 percent shall be
 utilized for the programs set forth in section 6(a)(2), section 6(a)(3),
 and section 6(a)(4), not more than 15 percent shall be used for salaries
 and other administrative purposes, and not less than 20 percent shall
 be appropriated to the Center for section 6(a)(5), section 6(a)(6), and
 section 6(a)(7) conditioned on a 25-percent match from other sources and
 further conditioned on adequate space at the Center being made available
 for the Executive Director and other appropriate staff of the Foundation
 by the Center.
SEC. 8. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY TRUST FUND.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- There is established in the Treasury of the United
 States a trust fund to be known as the `Morris K. Udall Scholarship and
 Excellence in National Environmental Policy Trust Fund' to be administered by
 a Foundation. The fund shall consist of amounts appropriated to it pursuant
 to section 11 and amounts credited to it under subsection (b).
 (b) Investment of Fund Assets-
 (1) IN GENERAL- It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Treasury
 to invest, at the direction of the Foundation Board, in full the amounts
 appropriated to the Fund. Such investments shall be in public debt securities
 with maturities suitable to the needs of the Fund. Investments in public
 debt securities shall bear interest `at rates determined by the Secretary
 of the Treasury taking into consideration the current average market yield
 on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States' of comparable
 maturity.
SEC. 9. EXPENDITURES AND AUDIT OF TRUST FUND.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Foundation shall pay from the interest and earnings of
 the Fund such sums as the Board determines are necessary and appropriate
 to enable the Foundation to carry out the provisions of this Act.
 (b) AUDIT BY GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE- The activities of the Foundation and
 the Center under this Act may be audited by the General Accounting Office
 under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller
 General of the United States. Representatives of the General Accounting
 Office shall have access to all books, accounts, records, reports filed
 and all other papers, things, or property belonging to or in use by the
 Foundation and the Center, pertaining to such federally assisted activities
 and necessary to facilitate the audit.
SEC. 10. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
 IN GENERAL- In order to carry out the provisions of this Act, the Foundation
 may--
 (1) appoint and fix the compensation of such personnel as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this Act, except that in no case shall employees
 other than the Executive Director be compensated at a rate to exceed the
 maximum rate for employees in grade GS-15 of the General Schedule under
 section 5332 of title 5, United States Code;
 (2) procure or fund the Center to procure temporary and intermittent services
 of experts and consultants as are necessary to the extent authorized by
 section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates not to exceed the
 rate specified at the time of such service for level IV of the Executive
 Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code;
 (3) prescribe such regulations as the Foundation considers necessary
 governing the manner in which its functions shall be carried out;
 (4) accept, hold, administer, and utilize gifts, both real and personal,
 for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Foundation;
 (5) accept and utilize the services of voluntary and noncompensated personnel
 and reimburse such personnel for travel expenses, including per diem,
 as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code;
 (6) enter into contracts, grants, or other arrangements or modifications
 thereof, to carry out the provisions of this Act, and such contracts or
 modifications thereof may, with the concurrence of two-thirds of the members
 of the Board of Trustees, be entered into without performance or other bonds,
 and without regard to section 3709 of the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5); and
 (7) make other necessary expenditures.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the Fund $40,000,000 to carry
 out the provisions of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.