 
--S.2201--
S.2201
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the admission to the United States of certain scientists of
the independent states of the former Soviet Union and the Baltic states as
employment-based immigrants under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Soviet Scientists Immigration Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act--
  (1) the term `Baltic states' means the sovereign nations of Latvia,
  Lithuania, and Estonia;
  (2) the term `independent states of the former Soviet Union' means the
  sovereign nations of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan,
  Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and
  Uzbekistan; and
  (3) the term `eligible independent states and Baltic scientists' means
  aliens--
  (A) who are nationals of any of the independent states of the former Soviet
  Union or the Baltic states; and
  (B) who are scientists or engineers who have expertise in nuclear, chemical,
  biological or other high technology fields or who are working on nuclear,
  chemical, biological or other high-technology defense projects, as defined
  by the Attorney General.
SEC. 3. WAIVER OF JOB OFFER REQUIREMENT.
  The requirement in section 203(b)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality
  Act (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(2)(A)) that an alien's services in the sciences,
  arts, or business be sought by an employer in the United States shall
  not apply to any eligible independent states or Baltic scientist who is
  applying for admission to the United States for permanent residence in
  accordance with that section.
SEC. 4. CLASSIFICATION OF INDEPENDENT STATES SCIENTISTS AS HAVING EXCEPTIONAL
ABILITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Attorney General shall designate a class of eligible
  independent states and Baltic scientists, based on their level of
  expertise, as aliens who possess `exceptional ability in the sciences',
  for purposes of section 203(b)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
  (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(2)(A)), whether or not such scientists possess advanced
  degrees.
  (b) REGULATIONS- The Attorney General shall prescribe regulations to carry
  out subsection (a).
  (c) LIMITATION- Not more than 750 eligible independent states and Baltic
  scientists (excluding spouses and children if accompanying or following
  to join) within the class designated under subsection (a) may be allotted
  visas under section 203(b)(2)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
  (8 U.S.C. 1153(b)(2)(A)).
  (d) TERMINATION- The authority of subsection (a) shall terminate 4 years
  after the date of enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.