 
--S.2344--
S.2344
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To improve the provision of health care and other services to veterans by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Veterans' Medical Programs
  Amendments of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to title 38, United States Code, and to Secretary of
Veterans Affairs.
TITLE I--HEALTH CARE
Part A--General Health Care
Sec. 101. Increase in limit on certain grants for home structural alterations
for disabled veterans.
Sec. 102. Submission of reports of Geriatrics and Gerontology Advisory
Committee.
Sec. 103. Authority to hold joint title to medical equipment.
Sec. 104. Quality assurance activities.
Sec. 105. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs.
Sec. 106. Prosthetic services report.
Sec. 107. Services for homeless veterans.
Part B--Mental Health Provisions
Sec. 121. Marriage and family counseling for Persian Gulf War veterans.
Sec. 122. Post-traumatic stress disorder research and reports.
Sec. 123. Post-traumatic stress disorder program planning.
TITLE II--HEALTH-CARE PERSONNEL
Sec. 201. Cap on certain rates of pay.
Sec. 202. Minimum period of service for scholarship recipients.
Sec. 203. Authority to purchase items of nominal value for recruitment
purposes.
Sec. 204. Special pay for certain physicians and dentists based on board
certification.
Sec. 205. Authority to appoint non-physician directors to the Office of the
Under Secretary for Health.
Sec. 206. Expansion of director grade of the physician and dentist pay
schedule.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Authorization requirement for construction of new medical facilities.
Sec. 302. Redesignation of certain positions within the Department of
Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 303. Attorney fees in connection with certain Department of Veterans
Affairs proceedings.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE, AND TO SECRETARY OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
  (a) REFERENCES TO TITLE 38- Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever
  in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to,
  or repeal of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered
  to be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States Code.
  (b) REFERENCES TO SECRETARY- Except as otherwise expressly provided, any
  reference in this Act to `the Secretary' is a reference to the Secretary
  of Veterans Affairs.
TITLE I--HEALTH CARE
Part A--General Health Care
SEC. 101. INCREASE IN LIMIT ON CERTAIN GRANTS FOR HOME STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS
FOR DISABLED VETERANS.
  (a) INCREASE- Section 1717(a)(2) is amended by striking out `$2,500' and
  `$600' and inserting in lieu thereof `$4,100' and `$1,200', respectively.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with
  respect to a veteran who first applies for benefits under section 1717(a)(2)
  of title 38, United States Code, after December 31, 1989.
  (c) APPLICABILITY- A veteran who exhausts such veteran's eligibility for
  benefits under section 1717(a)(2) of title 38, United States Code, before
  January 1, 1990, is not entitled to additional benefits under such section
  by reason of the amendments made by subsection (a).
SEC. 102. SUBMISSION OF REPORTS OF GERIATRICS AND GERONTOLOGY ADVISORY
COMMITTEE.
  Paragraph (2) of section 7315(c) is amended to read as follows:
  `(2) Whenever the Committee submits a report to the Secretary under paragraph
  (1), the Committee shall at the same time transmit a copy of the report in
  the same form to the appropriate committees of Congress. Not later than 90
  days after receipt of a report under that paragraph, the Secretary shall
  submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing any
  comments and recommendations of the Secretary with respect to the report
  of the Committee.'.
SEC. 103. AUTHORITY TO HOLD JOINT TITLE TO MEDICAL EQUIPMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Chapter 81 is amended by adding at the end of subchapter
  IV the following new sections:
`Sec. 8157. Joint title to medical equipment
  `(a) Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary may enter into agreements
  with institutions described in section 8153(a) of this title for the joint
  acquisition of medical equipment.
  `(b)(1) The Secretary may not pay more than one-half of the purchase price
  of equipment acquired through an agreement under subsection (a).
  `(2) Any equipment to be procured under such an agreement shall be procured
  by the Secretary. Title to such equipment shall be held jointly by the
  United States and the institution.
  `(3) Before equipment acquired under such an agreement may be used, the
  parties to the agreement shall arrange by contract under section 8153 of
  this title for the exchange or use of the equipment.
  `(4) The Secretary may not contract for the acquisition of medical equipment
  to be purchased jointly under an agreement under subsection (a) until the
  institution which enters into the agreement provides to the Secretary its
  share of the purchase price of the medical equipment.
  `(c)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may
  transfer the interest of the Department in equipment acquired through an
  agreement under subsection (a) to the institution which holds joint title
  to the equipment if the Secretary determines that the transfer would be
  justified by compelling clinical considerations or the economic interest of
  the Department. Any such transfer may only be made upon agreement by the
  institution to pay to the Department the amount equal to one-half of the
  depreciated purchase price of the equipment. Any such payment when received
  shall be credited to the applicable Department medical appropriation.
  `(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may acquire
  the interest of an institution in equipment acquired under subsection
  (a) if the Secretary determines that the acquisition would be justified
  by compelling clinical considerations or the economic interests of the
  Department. The Secretary may not pay more than one-half the depreciated
  purchase price of that equipment.
`Sec. 8158. Deposit in escrow
  `(a) To facilitate the procurement of medical equipment pursuant to section
  8157 of this title, the Secretary may enter into escrow agreements with
  institutions described in section 8153(a) of this title. Any such agreement
  shall provide that--
  `(1) the institutions shall pay to the Secretary the funds necessary to
  make a payment under section 8157(b)(4) of this title;
  `(2) the Secretary, as escrow agent, shall administer those funds in an
  escrow account; and
  `(3) the Secretary shall disburse the escrowed funds to pay for such
  equipment upon its delivery or in accordance with the contract to procure
  the equipment and shall disburse all accrued interest or other earnings
  on the escrowed funds to the institution.
  `(b) As escrow agent for funds placed in escrow pursuant to an agreement
  under subsection (a), the Secretary may--
  `(1) invest the escrowed funds in obligations of the Federal Government
  or obligations which are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Government;
  `(2) retain in the escrow account interest or other earnings on such
  investments;
  `(3) disburse the funds pursuant to the escrow agreement; and
  `(4) return undisbursed funds to the institution.
  `(c)(1) If the Secretary enters into an escrow agreement under this section,
  the Secretary may enter into an agreement to procure medical equipment if
  one-half the purchase price of the equipment is available in an appropriation
  or fund for the expenditure or obligation.
  `(2) Funds held in an escrow account under this section shall not be
  considered to be public funds.'.
  (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 81 is amended by
  inserting after the item relating to section 8156 the following new items:
`8157. Joint title to medical equipment.
`8158. Deposit in escrow.'.
  (b) REPORT- Not later than 45 days after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs
  of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the Secretary's
  plans for implementation of this section. The report shall include an
  identification and discussion of--
  (1) the instructions the Secretary proposes to issue to medical facilities to
  guide the development of proposals for procurement of medical equipment under
  this section, including instructions for ensuring equitable arrangements
  for use of the equipment by the Department and the co-purchasers of the
  equipment;
  (2) the criteria by which the Secretary plans to evaluate proposals to
  procure medical equipment under this section;
  (3) the means by which the Secretary will integrate the process of procuring
  equipment under this section with the policies and procedures governing
  health care planning by the Veterans Health Administration; and
  (4) the criteria by which determinations to transfer title to equipment
  under section 8157(c) of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection
  (a), would be made.
SEC. 104. QUALITY ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES.
  Effective on October 1, 1992, programs and activities which (1) the Secretary
  carries out pursuant to section 7311(a) of title 38, United States Code, or
  (2) are described in sections 201(a)(1) and 201(a)(3) of Public Law 100-322
  (102 Stat. 508) shall be deemed to be part of the operation of hospitals,
  nursing homes, and domiciliary facilities of the Department of Veterans
  Affairs, without regard to the location of the duty stations of employees
  carrying out those programs and activities.
SEC. 105. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON PROSTHETICS AND SPECIAL-DISABILITIES PROGRAMS.
  (a) STATUS AND NAME OF COMMITTEE- The Federal advisory committee established
  by the Secretary and known as the Prosthetics Service Advisory Committee
  shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known as the  Advisory
  Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs and shall operate
  as though such committee had been established by law. Notwithstanding any
  other provision of law, the Committee may, upon the enactment of this Act,
  meet and act on any matter covered by subsection (b) of section 543 of
  title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (b) of this section.
  (b) STATUTORY ESTABLISHMENT- (1) Chapter 5 is amended by adding at the
  end of subchapter III the following new section:
`Sec. 543. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs
  `(a) There is in the Department an advisory committee known as the Advisory
  Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs (hereinafter
  in this section referred to as the `Committee').
  `(b) The objectives and scope of activities of the Committee shall
  relate to--
  `(1) prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the
  Secretary;
  `(2) the coordination of programs of the Department for the development
  and testing of, and for information exchange regarding, prosthetic devices;
  `(3) the coordination of Department and non-Department programs that
  involve the development and testing of prosthetic devices; and
  `(4) the adequacy of funding for the prosthetics and special-disabilities
  programs of the Department.
  `(c) The Secretary shall, on a regular basis, consult with and seek the
  advice of the Committee on the matters described in subsection (b).
  `(d) Not later than January 15 of 1993, 1994, and 1995, the Committee shall
  submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
  Senate and House of Representatives a report on the effectiveness of the
  prosthetics and special-disabilities programs administered by the Secretary
  during the preceding fiscal year. Not more than 60 days after the date on
  which any such report is received by the Secretary, the Secretary shall
  submit a report to such committees commenting on the report of the Committee.
  `(e) As used in this section, the term `special-disabilities programs'
  includes all programs administered by the Secretary for--
  `(1) spinal-cord-injured veterans;
  `(2) blind veterans;
  `(3) veterans who have lost or lost the use of extremities;
  `(4) hearing-impaired veterans; and
  `(5) other veterans with serious incapacities in terms of daily life
  functions.'.
  (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 5 is amended by
  adding at the end the following new item:
`543. Advisory Committee on Prosthetics and Special-Disabilities Programs.'.
SEC. 106. PROSTHETIC SERVICES REPORT.
  Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this Act,
  the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
  Senate and House of Representatives a report containing--
  (1) the Secretary's evaluation of the reasons for the backlog that occurred
  in the procurement of prosthetic appliances in fiscal year 1989, and
  for the failure to furnish prosthetic appliances in accordance with the
  priority established in section 1712(i) of title 38, United States Code; and
  (2) a description of the actions that the Secretary has taken and plans
  to take to prevent a recurrence of--
  (A) the accumulation of a significant backlog in the procurement of
  prosthetic appliances; and
  (B) the failure to furnish prosthetic appliances in accordance with such
  priority, including a schedule for any such planned actions.
SEC. 107. SERVICES FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.
  (a) PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT- The Secretary shall assess all programs developed
  by facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs which have been
  designed to assist homeless veterans. To the maximum extent practicable,
  the Secretary shall seek to replicate at other facilities of the Department
  those programs that have as a goal the rehabilitation of homeless veterans
  and which the Secretary has determined to be successful in achieving that
  goal by fostering reintegration of homeless veterans into the community
  and employment of such veterans.
  (b) ASSESSMENT AND COORDINATION- (1) In carrying out subsection (a),
  the Secretary shall require the director of each medical center or the
  director of each regional benefits office to make an assessment of the
  needs of homeless veterans living within the area served by the medical
  center or regional office, as the case may be.
  (2) Each such assessment shall be made in coordination with representatives
  of State and local governments, other appropriate departments and agencies
  of the Federal Government, and nongovernmental organizations that have
  experience working with homeless persons in that area.
  (3) Each such assessment shall identify the needs of homeless veterans
  with respect to the following:
  (A) Health care.
  (B) Education and training.
  (C) Employment.
  (D) Shelter.
  (E) Counseling.
  (F) Outreach services.
  (4) Each assessment shall also indicate the extent to which the needs
  referred to in paragraph (3) are being met adequately by the programs of
  the Department, of other departments and agencies of the Federal Government,
  of State and local governments, and of nongovernmental organizations.
  (5) Each assessment shall be carried out in accordance with uniform
  procedures and guidelines prescribed by the Secretary.
  (c) PLANNING- In furtherance of subsection (a), the Secretary shall require
  the director of each medical center and the director of each regional
  benefits office, in coordination with representatives of State and local
  governments, other Federal officials, and nongovernmental organizations
  that have experience working with homeless persons in the areas served by
  such facility, to--
  (1) develop a list of all public and private programs that provide assistance
  to homeless persons or homeless veterans in the area concerned, together
  with a description of the services offered by those programs; and
  (2) seek to encourage the development by the representatives of such
  entities, in coordination with the director, of a plan to coordinate among
  such public and private programs the provision of services to homeless
  veterans.
  (d) SERVICES- In furtherance of subsection (a), the Secretary shall require
  the director of each medical center or regional benefits office, in carrying
  out such director's responsibilities under title 38, United States Code,
  to take appropriate action to--
  (1) meet, to the maximum extent practicable through existing programs and
  available resources, the needs of homeless veterans that are identified
  in the assessment conducted under subsection (b); and
  (2) attempt to inform homeless veterans whose needs the director cannot
  meet under paragraph (1) of the services available to such veterans within
  the area served by such center or office.
  (e) AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT DONATIONS FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS- The Secretary
  may accept donations of funds and services for the purposes of providing
  one-stop, non-residential services and mobile support teams and for expanding
  the medical services to homeless veterans eligible for such services from
  the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (f) DEFINITIONS- As used in subsections (a) through (e):
  (1) The term `medical center' means a medical center of the Department of
  Veterans Affairs.
  (2) The term `regional benefits office' means a regional benefits office
  of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
  (3) The term `veteran' has the meaning given such term in section 101(2)
  of title 38, United States Code.
  (4) The term `homeless' has the meaning given such term in section 103(a),
  as limited by section 103(c), of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance
  Act (42 U.S.C. 11302(a)).
  (g) EXTENSION OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS- Section 801
  of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act of 1988
  (Public Law 100-628; 102 Stat. 3257) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking out `to the Veterans' Administration'
  and all that follows through the period and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following: `to the Department of Veterans Affairs $50,000,000 for fiscal
  year 1993 for medical care of veterans. Funds appropriated pursuant to
  this section shall be in addition to any funds appropriated pursuant to
  any other authorizations (whether definite or indefinite) for medical care
  of veterans.'; and
  (2) in subsections (b) and (c), by striking out `Of the amount appropriated
  pursuant to subsection (a), 50 percent' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `The amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a)'.
  (h) EXTENSION OF PROGRAM FOR MENTALLY ILL HOMELESS VETERANS- Section 115(d)
  of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 (38 U.S.C. 1712 note)
  is amended by striking out `1992' and inserting in lieu thereof `1994'.
  (i) REPORT- Not later than February 1, 1993, the Secretary shall
  submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of
  Representatives a report containing an evaluation of the programs referred
  to in subsections (a) and (e).
Part B--Mental Health Provisions
SEC. 121. MARRIAGE AND FAMILY COUNSELING FOR PERSIAN GULF WAR VETERANS.
  (a) REQUIREMENT- Subject to the availability of funds appropriated
  pursuant to the authorization in subsection (g), the Secretary shall
  conduct a program to furnish to the persons referred to in subsection
  (b) the marriage and family counseling services referred to in subsection
  (c). The authority to conduct the program shall expire on September 30, 1994.
  (b) PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR COUNSELING- The persons eligible to receive
  marriage and family counseling services under the program are--
  (1) veterans who were awarded a campaign medal for active-duty service during
  the Persian Gulf War and the spouses and children of such veterans; and
  (2) veterans who are or were members of the reserve components who were
  called or ordered to active duty during the Persian Gulf War and the
  spouses and children of such members.
  (c) COUNSELING SERVICES- Under the program, the Secretary may provide
  marriage and family counseling that the Secretary determines, based on an
  assessment by a mental-health professional employed by the Department and
  designated by the Secretary (or, in an area where no such professional
  is available, a mental-health professional designated by the Secretary
  and performing services under a contract or fee arrangement with the
  Secretary), is necessary for the amelioration of psychological, marital,
  or familial difficulties that result from the active duty service referred
  to in subsection (b) (1) or (2).
  (d) MANNER OF FURNISHING SERVICES- (1) Marriage and family counseling
  services shall be furnished under the program--
  (A) by personnel of the Department of Veterans Affairs who are qualified
  to provide such counseling services;
  (B) by appropriately certified marriage and family counselors employed by
  the Department; and
  (C) by qualified mental health professionals pursuant to contracts with
  the Department, when Department facilities are not capable of furnishing
  economical medical services because of geographical inaccessibility or
  are not capable of furnishing the services required.
  (2) The Secretary shall establish the qualifications required of personnel
  under subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph (1) and shall prescribe the
  training, experience, and certification required of appropriately certified
  marriage and family counselors under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph.
  (3) The Secretary may employ licensed or certified marriage and family
  counselors to provide counseling under paragraph (1)(B) and may classify
  the positions in which they are employed at levels determined appropriate
  by the Secretary, taking into consideration the training, experience,
  and licensure or certification required of such counselors.
  (e) CONTRACT COUNSELING SERVICES- (1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and
  (4), a mental health professional referred to in subsection (d)(1)(C)
  may furnish marriage and family counseling services to a person under the
  program as follows:
  (A) For a period of not more than 15 days beginning on the date of the
  commencement of the furnishing of such services to the person.
  (B) For a 90-day period beginning on such date if--
  (i) the mental health professional submits to the Secretary a treatment
  plan with respect to the person not later than 15 days after such date; and
  (ii) the treatment plan and the assessment made under subsection (c) are
  approved by an appropriate mental health professional of the Department
  designated for that purpose by the Under Secretary for Health.
  (C) For an additional 90-day period beginning on the date of the expiration
  of the 90-day period referred to in subparagraph (B) (or any subsequent
  90-day period) if--
  (i) not more than 30 days before the expiration of the 90-day period
  referred to in subparagraph (B) (or any subsequent 90-day period), the
  mental health professional submits to the Secretary a revised treatment
  plan containing a justification of the need of the person for additional
  counseling services; and
  (ii) the plan is approved in accordance with the provisions of subparagraph
  (B)(ii).
  (2)(A) A mental health professional referred to in paragraph (1) who
  assesses the need of any person for services for the purposes of subsection
  (c) may not furnish counseling services to that person.
  (B) The Secretary may waive the prohibition referred to in subparagraph
  (A) for locations (as determined by the Secretary) in which the Secretary
  is unable to obtain the assessment referred to in that subparagraph from
  a mental health professional other than the mental health professional
  with whom the Secretary enters into contracts under subsection (d)(1)(C)
  for the furnishing of counseling services.
  (3) The Secretary shall reimburse mental health professionals for the
  reasonable cost (as determined by the Secretary) of furnishing counseling
  services under paragraph (1).  In the event of the disapproval of a treatment
  plan of a person submitted by a mental health professional under paragraph
  (1)(B)(i), the Secretary shall reimburse the mental health professional for
  the reasonable cost (as so determined) of furnishing counseling services
  to the person for the period beginning on the date of the commencement of
  such services and ending on the date of the disapproval.
  (4) The Secretary may authorize the furnishing of counseling in an individual
  case for a period shorter than the 90-day period specified in subparagraph
  (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) and, upon further consideration, extend the
  shorter period to the full 90 days.
  (5)(A) For the purposes of this subsection, the term `treatment plan',
  with respect to a person entitled to counseling services under the program,
  must include--
  (i) an assessment by the mental health professional submitting the plan
  of the counseling needs of the person described in the plan on the date
  of the submittal of the plan; and
  (ii) a description of the counseling services to be furnished to the
  person by the mental health professional during the 90-day period covered
  by the plan, including the number of counseling sessions proposed as part
  of such services.
  (B) The Secretary shall prescribe an appropriate form for the treatment plan.
  (f) COST RECOVERY- For the purposes of section 1729 of title 38, United
  States Code, marriage and family counseling services furnished under the
  program shall be deemed to be care and services furnished by the Department
  under chapter 17 of such title, and the United States shall be entitled
  to recover or collect the reasonable cost of such services in accordance
  with that section.
  (g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 1993 and 1994 to carry out this section.
  (h) REPORT- Not later than July 1, 1994, the Secretary shall submit to
  Congress a report on the program conducted pursuant to this section. The
  report shall contain information regarding the persons furnished counseling
  services under the program, including--
  (1) the number of such persons, stated as a total number and separately
  for each eligibility status referred to in subsection (b);
  (2) the age and gender of such persons;
  (3) the manner in which such persons were furnished such services under
  the program; and
  (4) the number of counseling sessions furnished to such persons.
  (i) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section, the terms `veteran',
  `child', `active duty', `reserve component',  `spouse', and `Persian
  Gulf War' have the meanings given such terms in paragraphs 101 (2), (4),
  (21), (27), (31), and (33) of section 101 of title 38, United States Code,
  respectively.
SEC. 122. POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER RESEARCH AND REPORTS.
  (a) RESEARCH PRIORITY- In carrying out research and awarding grants under
  chapter 73 of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary shall assign
  a high priority to the conduct of research on mental illness, including
  research regarding (1) post-traumatic stress disorder, (2) post-traumatic
  stress disorder in association with substance abuse, and (3) the treatment
  of those disorders.
  (b) UPDATES OF REPORTS UNDER SECTION 110(c) OF PUBLIC LAW 98-528- (1) Not
  later than October 1, 1992, and October 1, 1993, the Special Committee on
  Post-Traumatic-Stress Disorder established pursuant to section 110(b)(1)
  of the Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984 (38 U.S.C. 1712A note) shall
  concurrently submit to the Secretary and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs
  of the Senate and House of Representatives a report containing information
  updating the reports submitted to the Secretary under section 110(e)
  of the Veterans' Health Care Act of 1984, together with any additional
  information the Special Committee considers appropriate regarding the
  overall efforts of the Department of Veterans Affairs to meet the needs
  of veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and other psychological
  problems in readjusting to civilian life.
  (2) Not later than 90 days after receiving each of the reports under
  paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the committees any comments
  concerning the report that the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 123. POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER PROGRAM PLANNING.
  (a) PLAN- The Secretary shall develop a plan--
  (1) to ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that veterans suffering
  from post-traumatic stress disorder related to active duty are provided
  appropriate treatment and rehabilitative services for that condition in
  a timely manner;
  (2) to expand and improve the services available for veterans suffering
  from post-traumatic stress disorder related to active duty;
  (3) to eliminate waiting lists for inpatient treatment and other modes of
  treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder;
  (4) to enhance outreach activities carried out to inform combat-area veterans
  of the availability of treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder; and
  (5) to ensure, to the extent practicable, that there are Department
  post-traumatic stress disorder treatment units in locations that are
  readily accessible to veterans residing in rural areas of the United States.
  (b) CONSIDERATIONS- In developing the plan referred to in subsection (a),
  the Secretary shall consider--
  (1) the numbers of veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder
  related to active duty, as indicated by relevant studies, scientific and
  clinical reports, and other pertinent information;
  (2) the numbers of veterans who would likely seek post-traumatic stress
  disorder treatment from the Department if waiting times for treatment
  were eliminated and outreach activities to combat-area veterans with
  post-traumatic stress disorder were enhanced;
  (3) the current and projected capacity of the Department to provide
  appropriate treatment and rehabilitative services for post-traumatic
  stress disorder;
  (4) the level and geographic accessibility of inpatient and outpatient care
  available through the Department for veterans suffering from post-traumatic
  stress disorder across the United States;
  (5) the desirability of providing that inpatient and outpatient
  post-traumatic stress disorder care be furnished in facilities of the
  Department that are physically independent of general psychiatric wards
  of the medical facilities of the Department;
  (6) the treatment needs of veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress
  disorder who are women, of such veterans who are ethnic minorities
  (including Native Americans, Native Hawaiians, Asian-Pacific Islanders,
  and Native Alaskans), and of such veterans who suffer from substance abuse
  problems in addition to post-traumatic stress disorder; and
  (7) the recommendations of the Special Committee on Post-Traumatic-Stress
  Disorder with respect to (A) specialized inpatient and outpatient programs
  of the Department for the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder,
  and (B) with respect to the establishment of educational programs that
  are designed for each of the various levels of education, training, and
  experience of the various mental health professionals involved in the
  treatment of veterans suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder.
  (c) REPORT- Not later than six months after the date of the enactment
  of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Veterans'
  Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the plan
  developed pursuant to subsection (a). The report shall include specific
  information relating to the consideration given to the matters described
  in subsection (b).
  (d) DEFINITIONS- For the purposes of this section:
  (1) The term `active duty' has the meaning given that term in section
  101(21) of title 38, United States Code.
  (2) The term `veteran' has the meaning given that term in section 101(2)
  of such title.
  (3) The term `combat-area veteran' means a veteran who served on active
  duty in an area at a time during which hostilities (as defined in section
  1712A(a)(2)(B) of such title) occurred in such area.
TITLE II--HEALTH-CARE PERSONNEL
SEC. 201. CAP ON CERTAIN RATES OF PAY.
  Section 7455(c) is amended--
  (1) by inserting `(1)' after `(c)';
  (2) by inserting `by two times' after `exceed' the first place it appears;
  and
  (3) by adding at the end the following:
  `(2) Whenever the amount of an increase under subsection (a) results in a
  rate of basic pay for a position being equal to or greater than the amount
  that is 94 percent of the maximum amount permitted under paragraph (1), the
  Secretary shall promptly notify the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the
  Senate and House of Representatives of the increase and the amount thereof.'.
SEC. 202. MINIMUM PERIOD OF SERVICE FOR SCHOLARSHIP RECIPIENTS.
  (a) MINIMUM SERVICE REQUIREMENT- Section 7612(c)(1) is amended by striking
  out the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting in lieu thereof
  `, but for not less than two years.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply to
  scholarship agreements entered into after the date of the enactment of
  this Act.
SEC. 203. AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE ITEMS OF NOMINAL VALUE FOR RECRUITMENT
PURPOSES.
  Section 7423 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f) The Secretary may purchase promotional items of nominal value for use
  in the recruitment of individuals for employment under this chapter. The
  Secretary shall prescribe guidelines for the administration of the preceding
  sentence.'.
SEC. 204. SPECIAL PAY FOR CERTAIN PHYSICIANS AND DENTISTS BASED ON BOARD
CERTIFICATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 7437(e) is amended by striking out `only for the
  special-pay' and all that follows through the period in paragraphs (1)(C)
  and (2)(C) and inserting in lieu thereof `for no special-pay factors
  other than primary, full-time, length of service, and specialty or board
  certification.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply as if
  enacted with the amendment made by section 102 of the Department of Veterans
  Affairs Health-Care Personnel Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-40; 105 Stat. 187).
  (c) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Expenses incurred for periods before October 1,
  1991, by reason of the amendments made by subsection (a) may be charged
  to fiscal year 1992 appropriations available for the same purpose.
SEC. 205. AUTHORITY TO APPOINT NON-PHYSICIAN DIRECTORS TO THE OFFICE OF THE
UNDER SECRETARY FOR HEALTH.
  Section 7306(a) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph (7):
  `(7) Such directors of such other professional or auxiliary services
  as may be appointed to suit the needs of the Department, who shall be
  responsible to the Under Secretary for Health for the operation of their
  respective services.'.
SEC. 206. EXPANSION OF DIRECTOR GRADE OF THE PHYSICIAN AND DENTIST PAY
SCHEDULE.
  Section 7404(b)(2) is amended in the first sentence by inserting `, or
  comparable position' before the period.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF NEW MEDICAL FACILITIES.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION REQUIREMENT- (1) Paragraph (2) of section 8104(a) is
  amended to read as follows:
  `(2) No funds may be appropriated for any fiscal year, and the Secretary may
  not obligate or expend funds (other than for advance planning and design),
  for any major medical facility project or any major medical facility lease
  unless funds for that project or lease have been specifically authorized
  by law.'.
  (2) Paragraph (3)(B) of that section is amended--
  (A) by inserting `new' before `medical facility' the second place it
  appears; and
  (B) by striking out `$500,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$300,000'.
  (3) Subsection (c) of section 8104 is amended by striking out `resolution'
  both places it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `law'.
  (b) APPLICABILITY- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall not apply
  with respect to any project for which funds were appropriated before the
  date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 302. REDESIGNATION OF CERTAIN POSITIONS WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF
VETERANS AFFAIRS.
  (a) REDESIGNATION OF POSITION OF CHIEF MEDICAL DIRECTOR- The position of
  Chief Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs is hereby
  redesignated as Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans
  Affairs.
  (b) REDESIGNATION OF POSITION OF CHIEF BENEFITS DIRECTOR- The position of
  Chief Benefits Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs is hereby
  redesignated as Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans
  Affairs.
  (c) TITLE 38 CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Title 38, United States Code,
  is amended by striking out `Chief Medical Director' and `Chief Benefits
  Director' each place they appear (including in headings and tables but not
  including the sentences added by paragraphs (2) and (3)) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `Under Secretary for Health' and `Under Secretary for
  Benefits', respectively.
  (2) Section 7301(a) is amended by adding after the last sentence the
  following: `The Under Secretary for Health may be referred to as the Chief
  Medical Director.'.
  (3) Section 7701(b) is amended by adding after the last sentence the
  following: `The Under Secretary for Benefits may be referred to as the
  Chief Benefits Director.'.
  (d) EXECUTIVE SCHEDULE CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 5314 of title 5,
  United States Code, is amended by striking out the following:
  `Chief Medical Director, Department of Veterans Affairs.
  `Chief Benefits Director, Department of Veterans Affairs.';
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `Under Secretary for Health, Department of Veterans Affairs.
  `Under Secretary for Benefits, Department of Veterans Affairs.'.
  (e) REFERENCES IN OTHER LAWS- Any reference in any Federal law, Executive
  order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of
  or pertaining to the Department of Veterans Affairs--
  (1) to the Chief Medical Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs
  shall be deemed to refer to the Under Secretary for Health of the Department
  of Veterans Affairs; and
  (2) to the Chief Benefits Director of the Department of Veterans Affairs
  shall be deemed to refer to the Under Secretary for Benefits of the
  Department of Veterans Affairs.
SEC. 303. ATTORNEY FEES IN CONNECTION WITH CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
AFFAIRS PROCEEDINGS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 5904(c) is amended--
  (1) By striking out `In' at the beginning of paragraph (1) and inserting
  in lieu thereof `Except as provided in paragraph (3), in'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) A reasonable fee may be charged or paid in connection with any
  proceeding before the Department in a case arising out of a loan made,
  guaranteed, or insured under chapter 37 of this title. A person who charges a
  fee under this paragraph shall enter into a written agreement with the person
  represented and shall file a copy of the fee agreement with the Secretary
  at such time, and in such manner, as may be specified by the Secretary.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Paragraph (3) of section 5904(c) of title 38, United
  States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to services
  of agents and attorneys provided after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.