 
--S.2481--
S.2481
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Indian Health Care Improvement Act to authorize appropriations
for Indian health programs, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Indian Health Amendments of 1992'.
SEC. 2. AMENDMENTS TO INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT ACT.
  Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act a section
  or other provision is amended or repealed, such amendment or repeal shall
  be considered to be made to that section or other provision of the Indian
  Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
SEC. 3. FINDINGS; POLICY; AND DEFINITIONS.
  (a) FINDINGS- Section 2 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1601) is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (a), by striking `finds that--'
  and inserting `finds the following:';
  (2) in paragraph (d), by striking out the second sentence; and
  (3) by striking out paragraphs (e), (f), and (g).
  (b) DECLARATION OF POLICY- Section 3 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1602) is amended
  to read as follows:
`DECLARATION OF HEALTH OBJECTIVES
  `SEC. 3. (a) The Congress hereby declares that it is the policy of this
  Nation, in fulfillment of its special responsibilities and legal obligation
  to the American Indian people, to assure the highest possible health status
  for Indians and urban Indians and to provide all resources necessary to
  effect that policy.
  `(b) It is the intent of the Congress that the Nation meet the following
  health status objectives with respect to Indians and urban Indians by the
  year 2000:
  `(1) Reduce coronary heart disease deaths to a level of no more than 100
  per 100,000.
  `(2) Reduce the prevalence of overweight individuals to no more than
  30 percent.
  `(3) Reduce the prevalence of anemia to less than 10 percent among children
  aged 1 through 5.
  `(4) Reduce the level of cancer deaths to a rate of no more than 130
  per 100,000.
  `(5) Reduce the level of lung cancer deaths to a rate of no more than 42
  per 100,000.
  `(6) Reduce the level of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease related
  deaths to a rate of no more than 25 per 100,000.
  `(7) Reduce deaths among men caused by alcohol-related motor vehicle
  crashes to no more than 44.8 per 100,000.
  `(8) Reduce cirrhosis deaths to no more than 13 per 100,000.
  `(9) Reduce drug-related deaths to no more than 3 per 100,000.
  `(10) Reduce pregnancies among girls aged 17 and younger to no more than
  50 per 1,000 adolescents.
  `(11) Reduce suicide among men to no more than 12.8 per 100,000.
  `(12) Reduce by 15 percent the incidence of injurious suicide attempts
  among adolescents aged 14 through 17.
  `(13) Reduce to less than 10 percent the prevalence of mental disorders
  among children and adolescents.
  `(14) Reduce the incidence of child abuse or neglect to less than 25.2
  per 1,000 children under age 18.
  `(15) Reduce physical abuse directed at women by male partners to no more
  than 27 per 1,000 couples.
  `(16) Increase years of healthy life to at least 65 years.
  `(17) Reduce deaths caused by unintentional injuries to no more than 66.1
  per 100,000.
  `(18) Reduce deaths caused by motor vehicle crashes to no more than 39.2
  per 100,000.
  `(19) Among children aged 6 months through 5 years, reduce the prevalence
  of blood lead levels exceeding15ug/dl and reduce to zero the prevalence
  of blood lead levels exceeding 25 ug/dl.
  `(20) Reduce dental caries (cavities) so that the proportion of children
  with one or more caries (in permanent or primary teeth) is no more than
  45 percent among children aged 6 through 8 and no more than 60 percent
  among adolescents aged 15.
  `(21) Reduce untreated dental caries so that the proportion of children
  with untreated caries (in permanent or primary teeth) is no more than 20
  percent among children aged 6 through 8 and no more than 40 percent among
  adolescents aged 15.
  `(22) Reduce to no more than 20 percent the proportion of individuals aged
  65 and older who have lost all of their natural teeth.
  `(23) Increase to at least 45 percent the proportion of individuals aged
  35 to 44 who have never lost a permanent tooth due to dental caries or
  periodontal disease.
  `(24) Reduce destructive periodontal disease to a prevalence of no more
  than 15 percent among individuals aged 35 to 44.
  `(25) Increase to at least 50 percent the proportion of children who
  have received protective sealants on the occlusal (chewing) surfaces of
  permanent molar teeth.
  `(26) Reduce the prevalence of gingivitis among individuals aged 35 to 44
  to no more than 50 percent.
  `(27) Reduce the infant mortality rate to no more than 8.5 per 1,000
  live births.
  `(28) Reduce the fetal death rate (20 or more weeks of gestation) to no
  more than 4 per 1,000 live births plus fetal deaths.
  `(29) Reduce the maternal mortality rate to no more than 3.3 per 100,000
  live births.
  `(30) Reduce the incidence of fetal alcohol syndrome to no more than 2
  per 1,000 live births.
  `(31) Reduce stroke deaths to no more than 20 per 100,000.
  `(32) Reverse the increase in end-stage renal disease (requiring maintenance
  dialysis or transplantation) to attain an incidence of no more than 13
  per 100,000.
  `(33) Reduce breast cancer deaths to no more than 20.6 per 100,000 women.
  `(34) Reduce deaths from cancer of the uterine cervix to no more than 1.3
  per 100,000 women.
  `(35) Reduce colorectal cancer deaths to no more than 13.2 per 100,000.
  `(36) Reduce to no more than 11 percent the proportion of individuals who
  experience a limitation in major activity due to chronic conditions.
  `(37) Reduce significant hearing impairment to a prevalence of no more
  than 82 per 1,000.
  `(38) Reduce significant visual impairment to a prevalence of no more than
  30 per 1,000.
  `(39) Reduce diabetes-related deaths to no more than 48 per 100,000.
  `(40) Reduce diabetes to an incidence of no more than 2.5 per 1,000 and
  a prevalence of no more than 62 per 1,000.
  `(41) Reduce the most severe complications of diabetes as follows:
  `(A) End-stage renal disease, 1.9 per 1,000.
  `(B) Blindness, 1.4 per 1,000.
  `(C) Lower extremity amputation, 4.9 per 1,000.
  `(D) Perinatal mortality, 2 percent.
  `(E) Major congenital malformations, 4 percent.
  `(42) Confine annual incidence of diagnosed AIDS cases to no more than
  1,000 cases.
  `(43) Confine the prevalence of HIV infection to no more than 100 per
  100,000.
  `(44) Reduce gonorrhea to an incidence of no more than 225 cases per 100,000.
  `(45) Reduce chlamydia trachomatis infections, as measured by a decrease
  in the incidence of nongonococcal urethritis to no more than 170 cases
  per 100,000.
  `(46) Reduce primary and secondary syphilis to an incidence of no more
  than 10 cases per 100,000.
  `(47) Reduce the incidence of pelvic inflammatory disease, as measured by
  a reduction in hospitalization for pelvic inflammatory disease to no more
  than 250 per 100,000 women aged 15 through 44.
  `(48) Reduce viral hepatitis B infection to no more than 40 per 100,000
  cases.
  `(49) Reduce indigenous cases of vaccine-preventable diseases as follows:
  `(A) Diphtheria among individuals aged 25 and younger, 0.
  `(B) Tetanus among individuals aged 25 and younger, 0.
  `(C) Polio (wild-type virus), 0.
  `(D) Measles, 0.
  `(E) Rubella, 0.
  `(F) Congenital Rubella Syndrome, 0.
  `(G) Mumps, 500.
  `(H) Pertussis, 1,000.
  `(50) Reduce epidemic-related pneumonia and influenza deaths among
  individuals aged 65 and older to no more than 7.3 per 100,000.
  `(51) Reduce the number of new carriers of viral hepatitis B among Alaska
  Natives to no more than 1 case.
  `(52) Reduce tuberculosis to an incidence of no more than 5 cases per
  100,000.
  `(53) Reduce bacterial meningitis to no more than 8 cases per 100,000.
  `(54) Reduce infectious diarrhea by at least 25 percent among children.
  `(55) Reduce acute middle ear infections among children aged 4 and younger,
  as measured by days of restricted activity or school absenteeism, to no
  more than 105 days per 100 children.
  `(56) Reduce cigarette smoking to a prevalence of no more than 20 percent.
  `(57) Reduce smokeless tobacco use by youth to a prevalence of no more
  than 10 percent.
  `(58) Increase to at least 65 percent the proportion of parents and
  caregivers who use feeding practices that prevent baby bottle tooth decay.
  `(59) Increase to at least 75 percent the proportion of mothers who breast
  feed their babies in the early postpartum period, and to at least 50 percent
  the proportion who continue breast feeding until their babies are 5 to 6
  months old.
  `(60) Increase to at least 90 percent the proportion of pregnant women
  who receive prenatal care in the first trimester of pregnancy.
  `(61) Increase to at least 70 percent the proportion of individuals who
  have received, as a minimum within the appropriate interval, all of the
  screening and immunization services and at least one of the counseling
  services appropriate for their age and gender as recommended by the United
  States Preventive Services Task Force.
  `(c) It is the intent of the Congress that the Nation increase the proportion
  of all degrees in the health professions and allied and associated health
  profession fields awarded to Indians to 0.6 percent.
  `(d) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in each
  report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,
  a report on the progress made in each area of the Service toward meeting
  each of the objectives described in subsection (b).'.
  (c) DEFINITIONS- Section 4 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1603) is amended by adding
  at the end the following new subsections:
  `(m) `Service area' means the geographical area served by each area office.
  `(n) `Health profession' means family medicine, internal medicine,
  pediatrics, geriatric medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, podiatric
  medicine, nursing, public health nursing, dentistry, psychiatry, osteopathy,
  optometry, pharmacy, psychology, public health, social work, marriage and
  family therapy, chiropractic medicine, environmental health and engineering,
  and allied health professions.
  `(o) `Substance abuse' includes inhalant abuse.
  `(p) `FAE' means fetal alcohol effect.
  `(q) `FAS' means fetal alcohol syndrome.'.
TITLE I--INDIAN HEALTH PROFESSIONALS
SEC. 101. PURPOSE.
  Section 101 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1611) is amended to read as follows:
`PURPOSE
  `SEC. 101. The purpose of this title is to increase the number of Indians
  entering the health professions and to assure an adequate supply of health
  professionals to the Service, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and
  urban Indian organizations involved in the provision of health care to
  Indian people.'.
SEC. 102. HEALTH PROFESSIONS.
  (a) RECRUITMENT PROGRAM- Section 102(a) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1612(a))
  is amended--
  (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
  `(1) identifying Indians with a potential for education or training in
  the health professions and encouraging and assisting them--
  `(A) to enroll in courses of study in such health professions; or
  `(B) if they are not qualified to enroll in any such courses of study,
  to undertake such postsecondary education or training as may be required
  to qualify them for enrollment;';
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking out `school' both places it appears and inserting in lieu
  thereof the following: `course of study'; and
  (B) by striking out `clause (1)(A)' and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following: `paragraph (1)'; and
  (3) in paragraph (3)--
  (A) by striking out `Indians,' and inserting in lieu thereof `Indians in,';
  (B) by inserting a comma before `courses';
  (C) by striking out `, in any school'; and
  (D) by striking out `clause (1)(A)' and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following: `paragraph (1)'.
  (b) PREPARATORY SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM- Section 103 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1613)
  is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (a)(2) to read as follows:
  `(2) have demonstrated the capability to successfully complete courses of
  study in the health professions.';
  (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `on a full-time basis (or the part-time equivalent thereof,
  as determined by the Secretary)';
  (3) by amending subsection (b)(2) to read as follows:
  `(2) Pregraduate education of any grantee leading to a baccalaureate
  degree in an approved course of study preparatory to a field of study
  in a health profession, such scholarship not to exceed 4 years (or the
  part-time equivalent thereof, as determined by the Secretary).';
  (4) in subsection (c), by striking out `full time'; and
  (5) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
  `(e) The Secretary shall not deny scholarship assistance to an eligible
  applicant under this section solely by reason of such applicant's eligibility
  for assistance or benefits under any other Federal program.'.
  (c) HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIPS- Section 104 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking out `Indian communities' and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following: `Indians, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban
  Indian organizations';
  (B) by striking out `full time' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `full or part time'; and
  (C) by striking out `of medicine' and all that follows through `social
  work' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `and pursuing courses
  of study in the health professions';
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (2)--
  (i) by striking out `full time' and inserting in lieu thereof `full or
  part time'; and
  (ii) by striking out `health profession school' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `course of study';
  (B) in paragraph (3)--
  (i) by striking `(3)' and inserting `(3)(A)';
  (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) as clauses (i),
  (ii), (iii), and (iv), respectively; and
  (iii) by inserting at the end the following new subparagraphs:
  `(B) A recipient of an Indian Health Scholarship may, at the election of
  the recipient, meet the active duty service obligation prescribed under
  section 338C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m) by service
  in a program specified in subparagraph (A) that--
  `(i) is located on the reservation of the tribe in which the recipient is
  enrolled; or
  `(ii) serves the tribe in which the recipient is enrolled.
  `(C) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary, in making assignments of
  Indian Health Scholarship recipients required to meet the active duty service
  obligation prescribed under section 338C of the Public Health Service Act
  (42 U.S.C. 254m), shall give priority to assigning individuals to service
  in those programs specified in subparagraph (A) that have a need for health
  professionals to provide health care services as a result of individuals
  having breached contracts entered into under this section.'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) In the case of an individual receiving a scholarship under this
  section who is enrolled part time in an approved course of study--
  `(A) such scholarship shall be for a period of years not to exceed the
  part-time equivalent of 4 years, as determined by the Secretary;
  `(B) the period of obligated service specified in section 338A(f)(1)(B)(iv)
  of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m(f)(1)(B)(iv)) shall be
  equal to the greater of--
  `(i) the part-time equivalent of one year for each year for which the
  individual was provided a scholarship (as determined by the Secretary); or
  `(ii) two years; and
  `(C) the amount of the monthly stipend specified in section 338A(g)(1)(B)
  of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m(g)(1)(B)) shall be reduced
  pro rata (as determined by the Secretary) based on the number of hours
  such student is enrolled.';
  (3) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
  `(c) The Secretary shall, acting through the Service, establish a Placement
  Office to develop and implement a national policy for the placement,
  to available vacancies within the Service, of Indian Health Scholarship
  recipients required to meet the active duty service obligation prescribed
  under section 338C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m) without
  regard to any competitive personnel system, agency personnel limitation,
  or Indian preference policy.'; and
  (4) by striking out subsection (d).
  (d) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (c)(1)(C) and
  subsection (c)(2)(B) shall apply with respect to scholarships granted under
  section 104 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act after the date of
  the enactment of this Act.
  (e) EXTERN PROGRAM- Section 105 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1614) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking out `section 757 of the Public Health
  Service Act' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 104'; and
  (2) in subsection (b), by striking out `school of medicine' and all that
  follows through `health professions' and inserting in lieu thereof `course
  of study in the health professions'.
SEC. 103. BREACH OF CONTRACT PROVISIONS RELATING TO INDIAN HEALTH SCHOLARSHIPS.
  Section 104(b) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1613a(b)) (as amended by section 102(c)
  of this Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(5)(A) An individual who has, on or after the date of the enactment of
  this paragraph, entered into a written contract with the Secretary under
  this section and who--
  `(i) fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing in the
  educational institution in which he is enrolled (such level determined by
  the educational institution under regulations of the Secretary),
  `(ii) is dismissed from such educational institution for disciplinary
  reasons,
  `(iii) voluntarily terminates the training in such an educational
  institution for which he is provided a scholarship under such contract
  before the completion of such training, or
  `(iv) fails to accept payment, or instructs the educational institution
  in which he is enrolled not to accept payment, in whole or in part, of a
  scholarship under such contract,
in lieu of any service obligation arising under such contract, shall be
liable to the United States for the amount which has been paid to him,
or on his behalf, under the contract.
  `(B) If for any reason not specified in subparagraph (A) an individual
  breaches his written contract by failing either to begin such individual's
  service obligation under this section or to complete such service obligation,
  the United States shall be entitled to recover from the individual an
  amount determined in accordance with the formula specified in subsection
  (l) of section 108 in the manner provided for in such subsection.'.
SEC. 104. NURSING.
  (a) CONTINUING EDUCATION ALLOWANCES- Section 106(a) of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1615(a)) is amended by inserting `nurses,' after `dentists,'.
  (b) QUENTIN N. BURDICK AMERICAN INDIANS INTO NURSING PROGRAM- Section 112
  of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616e) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g),
  respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
  `(e) The Secretary shall provide one of the grants authorized under
  subsection (a) to establish and maintain a program at the University of
  North Dakota to be known as the `Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into
  Nursing Program'. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible,
  coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs established
  under section 114(b) and the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into
  Psychology Program established under section 217(b).'.
  (c) TRAINING FOR NURSE MIDWIVES, NURSE ANESTHETISTS, AND NURSE PRACTITIONERS-
  Section 112(g) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616e(g)) (as redesignated by subsection
  (b)(1) of this section) is amended to read as follows:
  `(g) Beginning with fiscal year 1993, of the amounts appropriated under the
  authority of this title for each fiscal year to be used to carry out this
  section, not less than $1,000,000 shall be used to provide grants under
  subsection (a) for the training of nurse midwives, nurse anesthetists,
  and nurse practitioners.'.
  (d) RETENTION BONUS FOR NURSES- Section 117 (25 U.S.C. 1616j) of the Act
  is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as subsections (c) through
  (f), respectively;
  (2) by adding after subsection (a) the following new subsection (b):
  `(b) Beginning with fiscal year 1993, not less than 25 percent of the
  retention bonuses awarded each year under subsection (a) shall be awarded
  to nurses.'; and
  (3) by amending subsection (f) (as amended by paragraph (1)) to read
  as follows:
  `(f) The Secretary may pay a retention bonus to any physician or nurse
  employed by an organization providing health care services to Indians
  pursuant to a contract under the Indian Self-Determination Act if such
  physician or nurse is serving in a position which the Secretary determines
  is--
  `(1) a position for which recruitment or retention is difficult; and
  `(2) necessary for providing health care services to Indians.'.
  (e) RESIDENCY PROGRAM- Title I of the Act is amended by adding at the end
  the following new section:
`NURSING RESIDENCY PROGRAM
  `SEC. 118. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish
  a program to enable licensed practical nurses, licensed vocational nurses,
  and registered nurses who are working in an Indian health program (as
  defined in section 108(a)(2)(A)), and have done so for a period of not
  less than one year, to pursue advanced training.
  `(b) Such program shall include a combination of education and work study
  in an Indian health program (as defined in section 108(a)(2)(A)) leading
  to an associate or bachelor's degree (in the case of a licensed practical
  nurse or licensed vocational nurse) or a bachelor's degree (in the case
  of a registered nurse).
  `(c) An individual who participates in a program under subsection (a), where
  the educational costs are paid by the Service, shall incur an obligation to
  serve in an Indian health program for a period of obligated service equal
  to at least three times the period of time during which the individual
  participates in such program. In the event that the individual fails to
  complete such obligated service, the United States shall be entitled to
  recover from such individual an amount determined in accordance with the
  formula specified in subsection (l) of section 108 in the manner provided
  for in such subsection.'.
  (f) GRANTS FOR THE PROVISION OF PRIMARY CARE SERVICES ON OR NEAR INDIAN
  COUNTRY- Title I of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601
  et seq.) is amended by adding immediately after section 112 the following
  new section:
`NURSING SCHOOL CLINICS
  `SEC. 112A. (a) GRANTS- In addition to the authority of the Secretary
  under section 112(a)(1), the Secretary, acting through the Service,
  is authorized to provide grants to public or private schools of nursing
  for the purpose of establishing, developing, operating, and administering
  clinics to address the health care needs of Indians, and to provide primary
  health care services to Indians who reside on or within 50 miles of Indian
  country, as defined in section 1151 of title 18, United States Code.
  `(b) PURPOSES- Grants provided under subsection (a) may be used to--
  `(1) establish clinics, to be run and staffed by the faculty and students
  of a grantee school, to provide primary care services in areas in or within
  50 miles of Indian country (as defined in section 1151 of title 18, United
  States Code);
  `(2) provide clinical training, program development, faculty enhancement,
  and student scholarships in a manner that would benefit such clinics; and
  `(3) carry out any other activities determined appropriate by the Secretary.
  `(c) AMOUNT AND CONDITIONS- The Secretary may award grants under this
  section in such amounts and subject to such conditions as the Secretary
  deems appropriate.
  `(d) DESIGN- The clinics established under this section shall be designed
  to provide nursing students with a structured clinical experience that
  is similar in nature to that provided by residency training programs
  for physicians.
  `(e) REGULATIONS- The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may
  be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
  `(f) AUTHORIZATION TO USE AMOUNTS- Out of amounts appropriated to carry
  out this title for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 2000 not more
  than $5,000,000 may be used to carry out this section.'.
SEC. 105. MAINTENANCE OF COMMUNITY HEALTH REPRESENTATIVE PROGRAM.
  Section 107(b) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), in the material preceding subparagraph (A), by
  inserting `and maintain' after `develop';
  (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by adding at the end the following: `with
  appropriate consideration given to lifestyle factors that have an impact on
  Indian health status, such as alcoholism, family dysfunction, and poverty,';
  (3) in paragraphs (3) and (5), by striking out `develop' each place it
  appears  and inserting in lieu thereof `maintain'; and
  (4) in paragraph (4), by striking out `develop and'.
SEC. 106. CHANGES TO INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM.
  (a) ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS- Section 108 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a(b))
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking out `physicians,' and all that
  follows through `professionals' and inserting in lieu thereof `health
  professionals'; and
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (1)(A)--
  (i) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
  `(i) in a course of study or program in an accredited institution, as
  determined by the Secretary, within any State and be scheduled to complete
  such course of study in the same year such individual applies to participate
  in such program; or'; and
  (ii) in clause (ii), by striking out `medicine' and all that follows
  through `health profession' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `a health profession';
  (B) in paragraph (1)(B)--
  (i) by inserting `and' at the end of clause (i), by striking out clause
  (ii), and by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii);
  (ii) in clause (i), by striking out `medicine, osteopathy, dentistry,
  or other health profession' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
  `a health profession'; and
  (iii) in clause (ii) (as redesignated by clause (i) of this subparagraph),
  by striking out `medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, or other health profession'
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `a health profession'; and
  (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting `and' at the end of subparagraph (D),
  by striking out paragraphs (3) and (4), and by inserting after paragraph
  (2) the following:
  `(3) submit to the Secretary an application for a contract described in
  subsection (f).'.
  (b) PRIORITY- Section 108(d) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616a(d)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking out `The' and inserting `Consistent with
  paragraph (3), the'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), of the total amounts appropriated for
  each of the fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995 for loan repayment contracts
  under this section, the Secretary shall provide that--
  `(i) not less than 25 percent be provided to applicants who are nurses,
  nurse practitioners, or nurse midwives; and
  `(ii) not less than 10 percent be provided to applicants who are mental
  health professionals (other than applicants described in clause (i)).
  `(B) The requirements specified in clause (i) or clause (ii) of subparagraph
  (A) shall not apply if the Secretary does not receive the number of
  applications from the individuals described in clause (i) or clause (ii),
  respectively, necessary to meet such requirements.'.
  (c) BECOMING A PARTICIPANT- Paragraph (1) of section 108(e) (25
  U.S.C. 1616a(e)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(1) An individual becomes a participant in the Loan Repayment Program
  only upon the Secretary and the individual entering into a written contract
  described in subsection (f).'.
  (d) EXTENSION OF OBLIGATED SERVICE- Paragraph (2)(A) of section 108(e)
  (25 U.S.C. 1616a(e)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon the
  following: `, including extensions resulting in an aggregate period of
  obligated service in excess of 4 years'.
  (e) CLARIFICATION REGARDING UNDERGRADUATE LOANS- Paragraph (1) of section
  108(g) (25 U.S.C. 1616a(g)) is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph
  (A) by striking out `loans received by the individual for--' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `loans received by the individual regarding the undergraduate
  or graduate education oftheindividual(orboth),whichloansweremadefor--'.
  (f) PAYMENT- Section 108(g)(2)(A) (25 U.S.C. 1616a(g)(2)(A)) is amended
  to read as follows:
  `(2)(A) For each year of obligated service that an individual contracts
  to serve under subsection (f) the Secretary may pay up to $35,000 (or an
  amount equal to the amount specified in section 338B(g)(2)(A) of the Public
  Health Service Act) on behalf of the individual for loans described in
  paragraph (1). In making a determination of the amount to pay for a year
  of such service by an individual, the Secretary shall consider the extent
  to which each such determination--
  `(i) affects the ability of the Secretary to maximize the number of
  contracts that can be provided under the Loan Repayment Program from the
  amounts appropriated for such contracts;
  `(ii) provides an incentive to serve in Indian health programs with the
  greatest shortages of health professionals; and
  `(iii) provides an incentive with respect to the health professional involved
  remaining in an Indian health program with such a health professional
  shortage, and continuing to provide primary health services, after the
  completion of the period of obligated service under the Loan Repayment
  Program.'.
  (g) TAX LIABILITY- (1) Paragraph (3) of section 108(g) (25
  U.S.C. 1616a(g)(3)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(3) For the purpose of providing reimbursements for tax liability resulting
  from payments under paragraph (2) on behalf of an individual, the Secretary--
  `(A) in addition to such payments, may make payments to the individual
  in an amount not less than 20 percent and not more than 39 percent of the
  total amount of loan repayments made for the taxable year involved; and
  `(B) may make such additional payments as the Secretary determines to be
  appropriate with respect to such purpose.'.
  (2) The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply only with respect
  to contracts under section 108 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act
  entered into on or after the date of enactment of this Act.
  (h) STAFFING NEEDS- Section 108(k) (25 U.S.C. 1616a(k)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(k) The Secretary, in assigning individuals to serve in Indian health
  programs pursuant to contracts entered into under this section, shall--
  `(1) ensure that the staffing needs of Indian health programs administered by
  an Indian tribe or tribal or health organization receive consideration on an
  equal basis with programs that are administered directly by the Service; and
  `(2) give priority to assigning individuals to Indian health programs
  that have a need for health professionals to provide health care services
  as a result of individuals having breached contracts entered into under
  this section.'.
  (i) ANNUAL REPORT- Subsection (n) of section 108 is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(n) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in each
  report required to be submitted to the Congress under section 801, a report
  concerning the previous fiscal year which sets forth--
  `(1) the health professional positions maintained by the Service or by tribal
  or Indian organizations for which recruitment or retention is difficult;
  `(2) the number of Loan Repayment Program applications filed with respect
  to each type of health profession;
  `(3) the number of contracts described in subsection (f) that are entered
  into with respect to each health profession;
  `(4) the amount of loan payments made under this section, in total and by
  health profession;
  `(5) the number of scholarship grants that are provided under section 104
  with respect to each health profession;
  `(6) the amount of scholarship grants provided under section 104, in total
  and by health profession;
  `(7) the number of providers of health care that will be needed by Indian
  health programs, by location and profession, during the three fiscal years
  beginning after the date the report is filed; and
  `(8) the measures the Secretary plans to take to fill the health professional
  positions maintained by the Service or by tribes or tribal or Indian
  organizations for which recruitment or retention is difficult.'.
SEC. 107. RECRUITMENT ACTIVITIES.
  Section 109 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616b) is amended--
  (1) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`RECRUITMENT ACTIVITIES'; AND
  (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall assign one individual
  in each area office to be responsible on a full-time basis for recruitment
  activities.'.
SEC. 108. ADVANCED TRAINING AND RESEARCH.
  Section 111 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616d) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b), by amending the last sentence to read as follows:
  `In such event, with respect to individuals entering the program after
  the date of the enactment of the Indian Health Amendments of 1992, the
  United States shall be entitled to recover from such individual an amount
  to be determined in accordance with the formula specified in subsection
  (l) of section 108 in the manner provided for in such subsection.'; and
  (2) by striking out subsection (d).
SEC. 109. INMED PROGRAM.
  Section 114(b) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1616g(b)) is amended--
  (1) by inserting after `North Dakota,' the following: `to be known as the
  `Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs','; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following: `Such program shall, to the maximum
  extent feasible, coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians
  Into Psychology Program established under section 217(b) and the Quentin
  N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing Program established under section
  112(e).'.
SEC. 110. SCHOLARSHIP AND LOAN REPAYMENT RECOVERY FUND.
  Title I of the Act is amended by inserting after section 108 the following
  new section:
`SCHOLARSHIP AND LOAN REPAYMENT RECOVERY FUND
  `SEC. 108A. (a) There is established in the Treasury of the United States a
  fund to be known as the Indian Health Scholarship and Loan Repayment Recovery
  Fund (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Fund'). The Fund shall
  consist of such amounts as may be appropriated to the Fund under subsection
  (b). Amounts appropriated for the Fund shall remain available until expended.
  `(b) For each fiscal year, there is authorized to be appropriated to the
  Fund an amount equal to the sum of--
  `(1) the amount collected during the preceding fiscal year by the Federal
  Government pursuant to--
  `(A) the liability of individuals under subparagraph (A) or (B) of section
  104(b)(5) for the breach of contracts entered into under section 104; and
  `(B) the liability of individuals under section 108(l) for the breach of
  contracts entered into under section 108; and
  `(2) the aggregate amount of interest accruing during the preceding fiscal
  year on obligations held in the Fund pursuant to subsection (d) and the
  amount of proceeds from the sale or redemption of such obligations during
  such fiscal year.
  `(c)(1) Amounts in the Fund and available pursuant to appropriation Acts may
  be expended by the Secretary, acting through the Service, to make payments
  to an Indian tribe or tribal organization administering a health care program
  pursuant to a contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act--
  `(A) to which a scholarship recipient under section 104 or a loan repayment
  program participant under section 108 has been assigned to meet the
  obligated service requirements pursuant to sections; and
  `(B) that has a need for a health professional to provide health care
  services as a result of such recipient or participant having breached the
  contract entered into under section 104 or section 108.
  `(2) An Indian tribe or tribal organization receiving payments pursuant
  to paragraph (1) may expend the payments to recruit and employ, directly
  or by contract, health professionals to provide health care services.
  `(d)(1) The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest such amounts of the Fund
  as such Secretary determines are not required to meet current withdrawals
  from the Fund. Such investments may be made only in interest-bearing
  obligations of the United States. For such purpose, such obligations
  may be acquired on original issue at the issue price, or by purchase of
  outstanding obligations at the market price.
  `(2) Any obligation acquired by the Fund may be sold by the Secretary of
  the Treasury at the market price.'.
SEC. 111. COMMUNITY HEALTH AIDE PROGRAM.
  Title I of the Act (as amended by section 104 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`COMMUNITY HEALTH AIDE PROGRAM FOR ALASKA
  `SEC. 119. (a) Under the authority of the Act of November 2, 1921 (25
  U.S.C. 13; popularly known as the Snyder Act), the Secretary shall maintain
  a Community Health Aide Program in Alaska under which the Service--
  `(1) provides for the training of Alaska Natives as health aides or
  community health practitioners;
  `(2) uses such aides or practitioners in the provision of health care,
  health promotion, and disease prevention services to Alaska Natives living
  in villages in rural Alaska; and
  `(3) provides for the establishment of teleconferencing capacity in health
  clinics located in or near such villages for use by community health aides
  or community health practitioners.
  `(b) The Secretary, acting through the Community Health Aide Program of
  the Service, shall--
  `(1) using trainers accredited by the Program, provide a high standard
  of training to community health aides and community health practitioners
  to ensure that such aides and practitioners provide quality health care,
  health promotion, and disease prevention services to the villages served
  by the Program;
  `(2) in order to provide such training, develop a curriculum that--
  `(A) combines education in the theory of health care with supervised
  practical experience in the provision of health care;
  `(B) provides instruction and practical experience in the provision of
  acute care, emergency care, health promotion, disease prevention, and
  the efficient and effective management of clinic pharmacies, supplies,
  equipment, and facilities; and
  `(C) promotes the achievement of the health status objectives specified
  in section 3(b);
  `(3) establish and maintain a Community Health Aide Certification Board
  to certify as community health aides or community health practitioners
  individuals who have successfully completed the training described in
  paragraph (1) or can demonstrate equivalent experience;
  `(4) develop and maintain a system which identifies the needs of community
  health aides and community health practitioners for continuing education in
  the provision of health care, including the areas described in paragraph
  (2)(B), and develop programs that meet the needs for such continuing
  education;
  `(5) develop and maintain a system that provides close supervision of
  community health aides and community health practitioners; and
  `(6) develop a system under which the work of community health aides and
  community health practitioners is reviewed and evaluated to assure the
  provision of quality health care, health promotion, and disease prevention
  services.'.
SEC. 112. MATCHING GRANTS TO TRIBES.
  Title I of the Act (as amended by section 111 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`MATCHING GRANTS TO TRIBES FOR SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 120. (a)(1) The Secretary shall make grants to Indian tribes and
  tribal organizations for the purpose of assisting such tribes and tribal
  organizations in educating Indians to serve as health professionals in
  Indian communities.
  `(2) Amounts available for grants under paragraph (1) for any fiscal year
  shall not exceed 5 percent of amounts available for such fiscal year for
  Indian Health Scholarships under section 104.
  `(3) An application for a grant under paragraph (1) shall be in such form
  and contain such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary
  determines are necessary to carry out this section.
  `(b)(1) An Indian tribe or tribal organization receiving a grant under
  subsection (a) shall agree to provide scholarships to Indians pursuing
  education in the health professions in accordance with the requirements
  of this section.
  `(2) With respect to the costs of providing any scholarship pursuant to
  paragraph (1)--
  `(A) 80 percent of the costs of the scholarship shall be paid from the grant
  made under subsection (a) to the Indian tribe or tribal organization; and
  `(B) 20 percent of such costs shall be paid from non-Federal contributions
  by the Indian tribe or tribal organization through which the scholarship
  is provided.
  `(3) In determining the amount of non-Federal contributions that have
  been provided for purposes of subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2), any
  amounts provided by the Federal Government to the Indian tribe or tribal
  organization involved or to any other entity shall not be included.
  `(4) Non-Federal contributions required by subparagraph (B) of paragraph
  (2) may be provided directly by the Indian tribe or tribal organization
  involved or through donations from public and private entities.
  `(c) An Indian tribe or tribal organization shall provide scholarships
  under subsection (b) only to Indians enrolled or accepted for enrollment
  in a course of study (approved by the Secretary) in one of the health
  professions described in section 104(a).
  `(d) In providing scholarships under subsection (b), the Secretary and the
  Indian tribe or tribal organization shall enter into a written contract
  with each recipient of such scholarship. Such contract shall--
  `(1) obligate such recipient to provide service in an Indian health program
  (as defined in section 108(a)(2)(A)), in the same service area where the
  Indian tribe or tribal organization providing the scholarship is located,
  for--
  `(A) a number of years equal to the number of years for which the scholarship
  is provided (or the part-time equivalent thereof, as determined by the
  Secretary), or for a period of 2 years, whichever period is greater; or
  `(B) such greater period of time as the recipient and the Indian tribe or
  tribal organization may agree;
  `(2) provide that the amount of such scholarship--
  `(A) may be expended only for--
  `(i) tuition expenses, other reasonable educational expenses, and reasonable
  living expenses incurred in attendance at the educational institution; and
  `(ii) payment to the recipient of a monthly stipend of not more than the
  amount authorized by section 338A(g)(1)(B) of the Public Health Service Act
  (42 U.S.C. 254m(g)(1)(B)), such amount to be reduced pro rata (as determined
  by the Secretary) based on the number of hours such student is enrolled; and
  `(B) may not exceed, for any year of attendance for which the scholarship
  is provided, the total amount required for the year for the purposes
  authorized in subparagraph (A);
  `(3) require the recipient of such scholarship to maintain an acceptable
  level of academic standing (as determined by the educational institution
  in accordance with regulations issued by the Secretary); and
  `(4) require the recipient of such scholarship to meet the educational
  and licensure requirements necessary to be a physician, certified nurse
  practitioner, certified nurse midwife, or physician assistant.
  `(e)(1) An individual who has entered into a written contract with the
  Secretary and an Indian tribe or tribal organization under subsection (d)
  and who--
  `(A) fails to maintain an acceptable level of academic standing in the
  educational institution in which he is enrolled (such level determined by
  the educational institution under regulations of the Secretary),
  `(B) is dismissed from such educational institution for disciplinary reasons,
  `(C) voluntarily terminates the training in such an educational institution
  for which he is provided a scholarship under such contract before the
  completion of such training, or
  `(D) fails to accept payment, or instructs the educational institution
  in which he is enrolled not to accept payment, in whole or in part, of a
  scholarship under such contract,
in lieu of any service obligation arising under such contract, shall be
liable to the United States for the Federal share of the amount which has
been paid to him, or on his behalf, under the contract.
  `(2) If for any reason not specified in paragraph (1), an individual
  breaches his written contract by failing either to begin such individual's
  service obligation required under such contract or to complete such
  service obligation, the United States shall be entitled to recover from the
  individual an amount determined in accordance with the formula specified in
  subsection (l) of section 108 in the manner provided for in such subsection.
  `(3) The Secretary may carry out this subsection on the basis of information
  submitted by the tribes or tribal organizations involved, or on the basis of
  information collected through such other means as the Secretary determines
  to be appropriate.
  `(f) The recipient of a scholarship under subsection (b) shall agree,
  in providing health care pursuant to the requirements of subsection (d)(1)--
  `(1) not to discriminate against an individual seeking such care on the
  basis of the ability of the individual to pay for such care or on the
  basis that payment for such care will be made pursuant to the program
  established in title XVIII of the Social Security Act or pursuant to the
  program established in title XIX of such Act; and
  `(2) to accept assignment under section 1842(b)(3)(B)(ii) of the Social
  Security Act for all services for which payment may be made under part B of
  title XVIII of such Act, and to enter into an appropriate agreement with
  the State agency that administers the State plan for medical assistance
  under title XIX of such Act to provide service to individuals entitled to
  medical assistance under the plan.
  `(g) The Secretary may not make any payments under subsection (a) to an
  Indian tribe or tribal organization for any fiscal year subsequent to the
  first fiscal year of such payments unless the Secretary determines that,
  for the immediately preceding fiscal year, the Indian tribe or tribal
  organization has complied with requirements of this section.'.
SEC. 113. TRIBAL HEALTH PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
  Title I of the Act (as amended by section 112 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`TRIBAL HEALTH PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION
  `SEC. 121. The Secretary shall, by contract or otherwise, provide
  training for individuals in the administration and planning of tribal
  health programs.'.
SEC. 114. TRIBALLY CONTROLLED VOCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
  (a) NURSING PROGRAM GRANTS- Section 112(a)(2) of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1616e(a)(2)) is amended by inserting before the comma the following:
  `and tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions (as defined in
  section 390(2) of the Tribally Controlled Vocational Institutions Support
  Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 2397h(2))'.
  (b) TRIBAL CULTURE AND HISTORY PROGRAMS- Section 113(b)(1) of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1616f(b)(1) is amended by inserting before the comma `and tribally
  controlled postsecondary vocational institutions (as defined in section
  390(2) of the Tribally Controlled Vocational Institutions Support Act of
  1990 (20 U.S.C. 2397h(2))'.
SEC. 115. CONTINUING EDUCATION ALLOWANCES.
  Section 106(b) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1615(b)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(b) Of amounts appropriated under the authority of this title for
  each fiscal year to be used to carry out this section, not more than
  $1,000,000 may be used to establish postdoctoral training programs for
  health professionals.'.
SEC. 116. UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA MODEL HEALTH PROGRAM.
  Title I of the Act (as amended by section 113 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH DAKOTA PILOT PROGRAM
  `SEC. 122. (a) The Secretary may make a grant to the School of Medicine of
  the University of South Dakota (hereafter in this section referred to as
  `USDSM') to establish a pilot program on an Indian reservation at one or
  more service units in South Dakota to address the chronic manpower shortage
  in the Aberdeen Area of the Service.
  `(b) The purposes of the program established pursuant to a grant provided
  under subsection (a) are--
  `(1) to provide direct clinical and practical experience at a service unit
  to medical students and residents from USDSM and other medical schools;
  `(2) to improve the quality of health care for Indians by assuring access
  to qualified health care professionals; and
  `(3) to provide academic and scholarly opportunities for physicians,
  physician assistants, nurse practitioners, nurses, and other allied
  health professionals serving Indian people by identifying and utilizing
  all academic and scholarly resources of the region.
  `(c) The pilot program established pursuant to a grant provided under
  subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) incorporate a program advisory board composed of representatives
  from the tribes and communities in the area which will be served by the
  program; and
  `(2) shall be designated as an extension of the USDSM campus and program
  participants shall be under the direct supervision and instruction of
  qualified medical staff serving at the service unit who shall be members
  of the USDSM faculty.
  `(d) The USDSM shall coordinate the program established pursuant to a grant
  provided under subsection (a) with other medical schools in the region,
  nursing schools, tribal community colleges, and other health professional
  schools.
  `(e) The USDSM, in cooperation with the Service, shall develop additional
  professional opportunities for program participants on Indian reservations
  in order to improve the recruitment and retention of qualified health
  professionals in the Aberdeen Area of the Service.'.
SEC. 117. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title I of the Act (as amended by section 116 of this
  Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 123. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Title I of the Act is amended--
  (1) in section 102, by striking out subsection (c);
  (2) in section 105, by striking out subsection (d);
  (3) in section 108, by striking out subsection (o);
  (4) in section 110, by striking out subsection (c);
  (5) in section 113, by striking out subsection (c);
  (6) in section 114, by striking out subsection (e);
  (7) in section 115, by striking out subsection (f); and
  (8) in section 116, by striking out subsection (e).
TITLE II--HEALTH SERVICES
SEC. 201. INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT FUND.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 201 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) in the material preceding paragraph (1), by striking out `subsection
  (h)' and inserting in lieu thereof `this section';
  (B) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
  `(1) eliminating the deficiencies in health status and resources of all
  Indian tribes,'; and
  (C) in paragraph (4), in the material preceding subparagraph (A)--
  (i) by inserting after `responsibilities' the following: `, either through
  direct or contract care or through contracts entered into pursuant to the
  Indian Self-Determination Act,'; and
  (ii) by striking out `resources deficiency' and inserting in lieu thereof
  the following: `status and resource deficiencies';
  (2) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `subsection (h)' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `this section';
  (B) by striking out paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraph (3) as
  paragraph (2); and
  (C) in paragraph (2)(A) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B))--
  (i) by striking out `subsection (h)' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `this section';
  (ii) in the first sentence, by striking out `but such allocation' through
  `met';
  (iii) in the second sentence--
  (I) by striking out `(in accordance with paragraph (2))'; and
  (II) by striking out `raise the deficiency level' and inserting in lieu
  thereof the following: `reduce the health status and resource deficiency';
  and
  (D) in paragraph (2)(B) (as redesignated by subparagraph (B)), by inserting
  after `consultation with' the following: `, and with the active participation
  of,';
  (3) in subsection (c)--
  (A) by striking out paragraph (1) and redesignating paragraphs (2), (3),
  and (4) as paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively;
  (B) by amending paragraph (1) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) above)
  to read as follows:
  `(1) The term `health status and resource deficiency' means the extent
  to which--
  `(A) the health status objectives set forth in section 3(b) are not being
  achieved; and
  `(B) the Indian tribe does not have available to it the health resources it
  needs, taking into account the actual cost of providing health care services
  given local geographic, climatic, rural, or other circumstances.'; and
  (C) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated by subparagraph (A) above)--
  (i) by striking out `Under regulations, the' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `The'; and
  (ii) by striking out `health resources deficiency level' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `extent of the health status and resource deficiency';
  (4) in subsection (d)(1), by striking out `subsection (h)' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `this section';
  (5) in subsection (e)--
  (A) in the material preceding paragraph (1)--
  (i) by striking out `60 days' and inserting in lieu thereof `3 years';
  (ii) by striking out `Indian Health Care Amendments of 1988' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `Indian Health Amendments of 1992'; and
  (iii) by striking out `health services priority system' and inserting in
  lieu thereof `health status and resource deficiency';
  (B) in paragraph (1), by striking out `health resources deficiencies'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `health status and resource deficiencies';
  (C) in paragraph (2),  by striking out `the level of health resources
  deficiency for' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `the extent
  of the health status and resource deficiency of';
  (D) in paragraph (3), by striking `raise all' and all that follows through
  the semicolon and insert in lieu thereof the following: `eliminate the
  health status and resource deficiencies of all Indian tribes served by
  the Service; and'; and
  (E) by striking out paragraphs (4) and (5) and redesignating paragraph
  (6) as paragraph (4); and
  (6) in subsection (f), by striking out `(f)(1)' and all that follows through
  the paragraph designation for paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof
  `(f)'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Except with respect to the amendments made by subsection
  (a)(5), the amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect three
  years after the date of the enactment of this Act. The amendments made
  by subsection (a)(5) shall take effect upon the date of the enactment of
  this Act.
  (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- The heading for section 201 of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1621) is amended to read as follows:
`INDIAN HEALTH CARE IMPROVEMENT FUND'.
SEC. 202. CATASTROPHIC HEALTH EMERGENCY FUND.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 202 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621a) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B), by striking out `under subsection (e)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `to the Fund under this section';
  (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking out `shall establish at not less
  than $10,000 or not more than $20,000;' and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following: `shall establish at--
  `(A)  for 1993, not less than $15,000 or not more than $25,000; and
  `(B) for any subsequent year, not less than the threshold cost of the
  previous year increased by the percentage increase in the medical care
  expenditure category of the consumer price index for all urban consumers
  (United States city average) for the 12-month period ending with December
  of the previous year;'; and
  (3) in subsection (c), by striking out `Funds appropriated under subsection
  (e)' and inserting in lieu thereof `Amounts appropriated to the Fund under
  this section'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a)(2) shall take
  effect January 1, 1993.
SEC. 203. HEALTH PROMOTION AND DISEASE PREVENTION.
  Section 203 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621b) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `so as to achieve the health status objectives set forth in
  section 3(b)';
  (2) in subsection (b), in the material preceding paragraph (1), by striking
  out `section 201(f)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 801'; and
  (3) by striking out subsection (c).
SEC. 204. DIABETES PREVENTION, TREATMENT, AND CONTROL.
  Section 204 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621c) is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
  `(c)(1) The Secretary shall continue to maintain through fiscal year 2000
  each model diabetes project in existence on the date of the enactment of
  the Indian Health Amendments of 1992 and located--
  `(A) at the Claremore Indian Hospital in Oklahoma;
  `(B) at the Fort Totten Health Center in North Dakota;
  `(C) at the Sacaton Indian Hospital in Arizona;
  `(D) at the Winnebago Indian Hospital in Nebraska;
  `(E) at the Albuquerque Indian Hospital in New Mexico;
  `(F) at the Perry, Princeton, and Old Town Health Centers in Maine;
  `(G) at the Bellingham Health Center in Washington;
  `(H) at the Fort Berthold Reservation;
  `(I) at the Navajo Reservation;
  `(J) at the Papago Reservation;
  `(K) at the Zuni Reservation; or
  `(L) in the States of Alaska, California, Minnesota, Montana, Oregon,
  or Utah.
  `(2) The Secretary may establish new model diabetes projects under this
  section taking into consideration applications received under this section
  from all service areas, except that the Secretary may not establish a greater
  number of such projects in one service area than in any other service area
  until there is an equal number of such projects established with respect to
  all service areas from which the Secretary receives qualified applications
  during the application period (as determined by the Secretary).'; and
  (2) in subsection (d)--
  (A) in paragraph (2), by striking out `and' after the semicolon;
  (B) in paragraph (3), by striking out the period and inserting in lieu
  thereof the following: `; and'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) evaluate the effectiveness of services provided through model diabetes
  projects established under this section.'.
SEC. 205. MENTAL HEALTH PREVENTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES.
  Section 209 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621h) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (j) (as redesignated by section 902(3)(B) of this Act),
  by striking out `submit to the Congress an annual report' and inserting
  in lieu thereof the following: `submit to the President, for inclusion in
  each report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,
  a report'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(l) LICENSING REQUIREMENT FOR MENTAL HEALTH CARE WORKERS- Any person
  employed as a psychologist, social worker, or marriage and family therapist
  for the purpose of providing mental health care services to Indians in
  a clinical setting under the authority of this Act or through a contract
  pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act shall--
  `(1) in the case of a person employed as a psychologist, be licensed as a
  clinical psychologist or working under the direct supervision of a licensed
  clinical psychologist;
  `(2) in the case of a person employed as a social worker, be licensed as a
  social worker or working under the direct supervision of a licensed social
  worker; or
  `(3) in the case of a person employed as a marriage and family therapist,
  be licensed as a marriage and family therapist or working under the direct
  supervision of a licensed marriage and family therapist.
  `(m) INTERMEDIATE ADOLESCENT MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES- (1) The Secretary,
  acting through the Service, may make grants to Indian tribes and tribal
  organizations to provide intermediate mental health services to Indian
  children and adolescents, including--
  `(A) inpatient and outpatient services;
  `(B) emergency care;
  `(C) suicide prevention and crisis intervention; and
  `(D) prevention and treatment of mental illness, and dysfunctional and
  self-destructive behavior, including child abuse and family violence.
  `(2) Funds provided under this subsection may be used--
  `(A) to construct or renovate an existing health facility to provide
  intermediate mental health services;
  `(B) to hire mental health professionals;
  `(C) to staff, operate, and maintain an intermediate mental health facility,
  group home, or youth shelter where intermediate mental health services
  are being provided; and
  `(D) to make renovations and hire appropriate staff to convert existing
  hospital beds into adolescent psychiatric units.
  `(3) Funds provided under this subsection may not be used for the purposes
  described in section 216(b)(1).
  `(4) An Indian tribe or tribal organization receiving a grant under this
  subsection shall ensure that intermediate adolescent mental health services
  are coordinated with other tribal, Service, and Bureau of Indian Affairs
  mental health, alcohol and substance abuse, and social services programs
  on the reservation of such tribe or tribal organization.
  `(5) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval
  of applications for grants made pursuant to this subsection.
  `(6) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
SEC. 206. NEW STUDIES AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  (a) HOSPICE CARE- Title II of the Act is amended by inserting after section
  204 the following:
`HOSPICE CARE FEASIBILITY STUDY
  `SEC. 205. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service and in consultation
  with representatives of Indian tribes, tribal organizations, Indian Health
  Service personnel, and hospice providers, shall conduct a study--
  `(1) to assess the feasibility and desirability of furnishing hospice care
  to terminally ill Indians; and
  `(2) to determine the most efficient and effective means of furnishing
  such care.
  `(b) Such study shall--
  `(1) assess the impact of Indian culture and beliefs concerning death and
  dying on the provision of hospice care to Indians;
  `(2) estimate the number of Indians for whom hospice care may be appropriate
  and determine the geographic distribution of such individuals;
  `(3) determine the most appropriate means to facilitate the participation
  of Indian tribes and tribal organizations in providing hospice care;
  `(4) identify and evaluate various means for providing hospice care,
  including--
  `(A) the provision of such care by the personnel of a Service hospital
  pursuant to a hospice program established by the Secretary at such
  hospital; and
  `(B) the provision of such care by a community-based hospice program under
  contract to the Service; and
  `(5) identify and assess any difficulties in furnishing such care and the
  actions needed to resolve such difficulties.
  `(c) Not later than the date which is 12 months after the date of the
  enactment of this section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress
  a report containing--
  `(1) a detailed description of the study conducted pursuant to this
  section; and
  `(2) a discussion of the findings and conclusions of such study.
  `(d) For the purposes of this section--
  `(1) the term `terminally ill' means any Indian who has a medical prognosis
  (as certified by a physician) of a life expectancy of six months or less; and
  `(2) the term `hospice program' means any program which satisfies the
  requirements of section 1861(dd)(2) of the Social Security Act (42
  U.S.C. 1395x(dd)(2)); and
  `(3) the term `hospice care' means the items and services specified in
  subparagraphs (A) through (H) of section 1861(dd)(1) of the Social Security
  Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(dd)(1)).'.
  (b) MANAGED CARE- Title II of the Act is amended by adding at the end the
  following new section:
`MANAGED CARE FEASIBILITY STUDY
  `SEC. 210. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall conduct a
  study to assess the feasibility of allowing an Indian tribe to purchase,
  directly or through the Service, managed care coverage for all members of
  the tribe from--
  `(1) a tribally owned and operated managed care plan; or
  `(2) a State licensed managed care plan.
  `(b) Not later than the date which is 12 months after the date of the
  enactment of this section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress
  a report containing--
  `(1) a detailed description of the study conducted pursuant to this
  section; and
  `(2) a discussion of the findings and conclusions of such study.'.
  (c) CONTRACT CARE- Title II of the Act (as amended by subsection (b)
  of this Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`CALIFORNIA CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM
  `SEC. 211. (a) The Secretary shall establish a demonstration program to
  evaluate the use of a contract care intermediary to improve the accessibility
  of health services to California Indians.
  `(b)(1) In establishing such program, the Secretary shall enter into an
  agreement with the California Rural Indian Health Board to reimburse the
  Board for costs (including reasonable administrative costs) incurred,
  during the period of the demonstration program, in providing medical
  treatment under contract to California Indians described in section 809(b)
  throughout the California contract health services delivery area described
  in section 810 with respect to high-cost contract care cases.
  `(2) Not more than 5 percent of the amounts provided to the Board under
  this section for any fiscal year may be for reimbursement for administrative
  expenses incurred by the Board during such fiscal year.
  `(3) No payment may be made for treatment provided under the demonstration
  program to the extent payment may be made for such treatment under the
  Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund described in section 202 or from amounts
  appropriated or otherwise made available to the California contract health
  service delivery area for a fiscal year.
  `(c) There is hereby established an advisory board which shall advise the
  California Rural Indian Health Board in carrying out the demonstration
  pursuant to this section. The advisory board shall be composed of
  representatives, selected by the California Rural Indian Health Board, from
  not less than 8 tribal health programs serving California Indians covered
  under such demonstration, at least one half of whom are not affiliated
  with the California Rural Indian Health Board.
  `(d) The demonstration program described in this section shall begin on
  January 1, 1993, and shall terminate on September 30, 1997.
  `(e) Not later than July 1, 1998, the California Rural Indian Health Board
  shall submit to the Secretary a report on the demonstration program carried
  out under this section, including a statement of its findings regarding
  the impact of using a contract care intermediary on--
  `(1) access to needed health services;
  `(2) waiting periods for receiving such services; and
  `(3) the efficient management of high-cost contract care cases.
  `(f) For the purposes of this section, the term `high-cost contract care
  cases' means those cases in which the cost of the medical treatment provided
  to an individual--
  `(1) would otherwise be eligible for reimbursement from the Catastrophic
  Health Emergency Fund established under section 202, except that the cost
  of such treatment does not meet the threshold cost requirement established
  pursuant to section 202(b)(2); and
  `(2) exceeds $1,000.
  `(g) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years
  1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 such sums as may be necessary to carry
  out the purposes of this section.'.
SEC. 207. COVERAGE OF SCREENING MAMMOGRAPHY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Title II of the Act (as amended by section 206(c) of this
  Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`COVERAGE OF SCREENING MAMMOGRAPHY
  `SEC. 212. The Secretary, through the Service, shall provide for screening
  mammography (as defined in section 1861(jj) of the Social Security Act)
  for Indian and urban Indian women 35 years of age or older at a frequency,
  determined by the Secretary (in consultation with the Director of the
  National Cancer Institute), appropriate to such women, and under such
  terms and conditions as are consistent with standards established by the
  Secretary to assure the safety and accuracy of screening mammography under
  part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 201(a)(4)(B) of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1621(a)(4)(B)) is amended by striking the semicolon at the end and
  inserting the following: `, including screening mammography in accordance
  with section 212;'.
SEC. 208. PATIENT TRAVEL COSTS.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 207 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`PATIENT TRAVEL COSTS
  `SEC. 213. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide
  funds for the following patient travel costs associated with receiving
  health care services provided (either through direct or contract care or
  through contracts entered into pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination
  Act) under this Act--
  `(1) emergency air transportation; and
  `(2) nonemergency air transportation where ground transportation is
  infeasible.
  `(b) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
SEC. 209. THIRD PARTY REIMBURSEMENT.
  (a) RECOVERY BY INDIAN TRIBE- Section 206 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1621e)
  is amended--
  (1) by inserting `, an Indian tribe, or a tribal organization' after
  `United States' each place it appears;
  (2) in subsection (a), by inserting `, an Indian tribe, or a tribal
  organization' after `Service';
  (3) in subsection (a) and subsection (e)(1)(A), by inserting `, an Indian
  tribe, or a tribal organization' after `Secretary' each place it appears; and
  (4) in subsection (b), by striking `, or any political subdivision of
  a State,'.
  (b) SPECIAL RULE WITH RESPECT TO SELF-INSURANCE PLAN- Section 206 of the
  Act (25 U.S.C. 1621e) is amended--
  (1) by striking `(a) The' and inserting the following: `(a) Except as
  provided in subsection (f), the'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f) The United States shall not have a right of recovery under this
  section if the injury, illness, or disability for which health services
  were provided is covered under a self-insurance plan funded by an Indian
  tribe or tribal organization.'.
SEC. 210. EPIDEMIOLOGY CENTERS.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 208 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`EPIDEMIOLOGY CENTERS
  `SEC. 214. (a)(1) The Secretary shall establish an epidemiology center in
  each Service area to carry out the functions described in paragraph (3).
  `(2) To assist such centers in carrying out such functions, the Secretary
  shall perform the following:
  `(A) In consultation with the Centers for Disease Control and Indian tribes,
  develop sets of data (which to the extent practicable, shall be consistent
  with the uniform data sets used by the States with respect to the year
  2000 health objectives) for uniformly defining health status for purposes
  of the objectives specified in section 3(b). Such sets shall consist of
  one or more categories of information. The Secretary shall develop formats
  for the uniform collecting and reporting of information on such categories.
  `(B) Establish and maintain a system for monitoring the progress made toward
  meeting each of the health status objectives described in section 3(b).
  `(3) In consultation with Indian tribes and urban Indian communities,
  each area epidemiology center established under this subsection shall,
  with respect to such area--
  `(A) collect data relating to, and monitor progress made toward meeting,
  each of the health status objectives described in section 3(b) using the
  data sets and monitoring system developed by the Secretary pursuant to
  paragraph (2);
  `(B) evaluate existing delivery systems, data systems, and other systems
  that impact the improvement of Indian health;
  `(C) assist tribes and urban Indian communities in identifying their highest
  priority health status objectives and the services needed to achieve such
  objectives, based on epidemiological data;
  `(D) make recommendations for the targeting of services needed by tribal,
  urban, and other Indian communities;
  `(E) make recommendations to improve health care delivery systems for
  Indians and urban Indians;
  `(F) work cooperatively with tribal providers of health and social services
  in order to avoid duplication of existing services; and
  `(G) provide technical assistance to Indian tribes and urban Indian
  organizations in the development of local health service priorities and
  incidence and prevalence rates of disease and other illness in the community.
  `(4) Epidemiology centers established under this subsection shall be subject
  to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450f
  et seq.).
  `(5) The director of the Centers for Disease Control shall provide
  technical assistance to the centers in carrying out the requirements of
  this subsection.
  `(6) The Service shall assign one epidemiologist from each of its area
  offices to each area epidemiology center to provide such center with
  technical assistance necessary to carry out this subsection.
  `(b)(1) The Secretary may make grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations,
  and eligible intertribal consortia or Indian organizations to conduct
  epidemiological studies of Indian communities.
  `(2) An intertribal consortia or Indian organization is eligible to receive
  a grant under this subsection if--
  `(A) it is incorporated for the primary purpose of improving Indian
  health; and
  `(B) it is representative of the tribes or urban Indian communities in
  which it is located.
  `(3) An application for a grant under this subsection shall be submitted
  in such manner and at such time as the Secretary shall prescribe.
  `(4) Applicants for grants under this subsection shall--
  `(A) demonstrate the technical, administrative, and financial expertise
  necessary to carry out the functions described in paragraph (5);
  `(B) consult and cooperate with providers of related health and social
  services in order to avoid duplication of existing services; and
  `(C) demonstrate cooperation from Indian tribes or urban Indian organizations
  in the area to be served.
  `(5) A grant awarded under paragraph (1) may be used to--
  `(A) carry out the functions described in subsection (a)(3);
  `(B) provide information to and consult with tribal leaders, urban Indian
  community leaders, and related health staff, on health care and health
  services management issues; and
  `(C) provide, in collaboration with tribes and urban Indian communities,
  the Service with information regarding ways to improve  the health status
  of Indian people.
  `(6) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the purposes of
  this subsection not more than $12,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996,
  1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
SEC. 211. COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 210 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL HEALTH EDUCATION PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 215. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service and in consultation
  with the Secretary of the Interior, may award grants to Indian tribes to
  develop comprehensive school health education programs for children from
  preschool through grade 12 in schools located on Indian reservations.
  `(b) Grants awarded under this section may be used to--
  `(1) develop health education curricula;
  `(2) train teachers in comprehensive school health education curricula;
  `(3) integrate school-based, community-based, and other public and private
  health promotion efforts;
  `(4) encourage healthy, tobacco-free school environments;
  `(5) coordinate school-based health programs with existing services and
  programs available in the community;
  `(6) develop school programs on nutrition education, personal health,
  and fitness;
  `(7) develop mental health wellness programs;
  `(8) develop chronic disease prevention programs;
  `(9) develop substance abuse prevention programs;
  `(10) develop accident prevention and safety education programs;
  `(11) develop activities for the prevention and control of communicable
  diseases; and
  `(12) develop community and environmental health education programs.
  `(c) The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to Indian tribes
  in the development of health education plans, and the dissemination of
  health education materials and information on existing health programs
  and resources.
  `(d) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval
  of applications for grants made pursuant to this section.
  `(e) Recipients of grants under this section shall submit to the Secretary
  an annual report on activities undertaken with funds provided under this
  section. Such reports shall include a statement of--
  `(1) the number of preschools, elementary schools, and secondary schools
  served;
  `(2) the number of students served;
  `(3) any new curricula established with funds provided under this section;
  `(4) the number of teachers trained in the health curricula; and
  `(5) the involvement of parents, members of the community, and community
  health workers in programs established with funds provided under this
  section.
  `(f)(1) The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Indian
  Affairs and in cooperation with the Secretary, shall develop a comprehensive
  school health education program for children from preschool through grade
  12 in schools operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
  `(2) Such program shall include--
  `(A) school programs on nutrition education, personal health, and fitness;
  `(B) mental health wellness programs;
  `(C) chronic disease prevention programs;
  `(D) substance abuse prevention programs;
  `(E) accident prevention and safety education programs; and
  `(F) activities for the prevention and control of communicable diseases.
  `(3) The Secretary of the Interior shall--
  `(A) provide training to teachers in comprehensive school health education
  curricula;
  `(B) ensure the integration and coordination of school-based programs with
  existing services and health programs available in the community; and
  `(C) encourage healthy, tobacco-free school environments.
  `(g) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $15,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
SEC. 212. INDIAN YOUTH GRANT PROGRAM.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 211 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`INDIAN YOUTH GRANT PROGRAM
  `SEC. 216. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized
  to make grants to Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and urban Indian
  organizations for innovative mental and physical disease prevention and
  health promotion and treatment programs for Indian preadolescent and
  adolescent youths.
  `(b)(1) Funds made available under this section may be used to--
  `(A) develop prevention and treatment programs for Indian youth which
  promote mental and physical health and incorporate cultural values,
  community and family involvement, and traditional healers; and
  `(B) develop and provide community training and education.
  `(2) Funds made available under this section may not be used to provide
  services described in section 209(m).
  `(c) The Secretary shall--
  `(1) disseminate to Indian tribes information regarding models for the
  delivery of comprehensive health care services to Indian and urban Indian
  adolescents;
  `(2) encourage the implementation of such models; and
  `(3) at the request of an Indian tribe, provide technical assistance in
  the implementation of such models.
  `(d) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval
  of applications under this section.
  `(e) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each
  of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
SEC. 213. AMERICAN INDIANS INTO PSYCHOLOGY PROGRAM.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 212 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`AMERICAN INDIANS INTO PSYCHOLOGY PROGRAM
  `SEC. 217. (a) The Secretary may provide grants to at least 3 colleges
  and universities for the purpose of developing and maintaining American
  Indian psychology career recruitment programs as a means of encouraging
  Indians to enter the mental health field.
  `(b) The Secretary shall provide one of the grants authorized under
  subsection (a) to develop and maintain a program at the University of
  North Dakota to be known as the `Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into
  Psychology Program'. Such program shall, to the maximum extent feasible,
  coordinate with the Quentin N. Burdick Indian Health Programs authorized
  under section 114(b), the Quentin N. Burdick American Indians Into Nursing
  Program authorized under section 112(e), and existing university research
  and communications networks.
  `(c)(1) The Secretary shall issue regulations for the competitive awarding
  of the grants provided under this section.
  `(2) Applicants for grants under this section shall agree to provide a
  program which, at a minimum--
  `(A) provides outreach and recruitment for health professions to Indian
  communities including elementary, secondary and community colleges located
  on Indian reservations that will be served by the program;
  `(B) incorporates a program advisory board comprised of representatives
  from the tribes and communities that will be served by the program;
  `(C) provides summer enrichment programs to expose Indian students to the
  varied fields of psychology through research, clinical, and experiential
  activities;
  `(D) provides stipends to undergraduate and graduate students to pursue
  a career in psychology;
  `(E) develops affiliation agreements with tribal community colleges, the
  Service, university affiliated programs, and other appropriate entities
  to enhance the education of Indian students;
  `(F) to the maximum extent feasible, utilizes existing university tutoring,
  counseling and student support services; and
  `(G) to the maximum extent feasible, employs qualified Indians in the
  program.
  `(d) The active duty service obligation prescribed under section 338C
  of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254m) shall be met by each
  graduate student who receives a stipend described in subsection (c)(2)(D)
  that is funded by a grant provided under this section. Such obligation
  shall be met by service--
  `(1) in the Indian Health Service;
  `(2) in a program conducted under a contract entered into under the Indian
  Self-Determination Act;
  `(3) in a program assisted under title V of this Act; or
  `(4) in the private practice of psychology if, as determined by the
  Secretary, in accordance with guidelines promulgated by the Secretary,
  such practice is situated in a physician or other health professional
  shortage area and addresses the health care needs of a substantial number
  of Indians.'.
SEC. 214. PREVENTION, CONTROL, AND ELIMINATION OF TUBERCULOSIS.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 213 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`PREVENTION, CONTROL, AND ELIMINATION OF TUBERCULOSIS
  `SEC. 218. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service after consultation
  with the Centers for Disease Control, may make grants to Indian tribes
  and tribal organizations for--
  `(1) projects for the prevention, control, and elimination of tuberculosis;
  `(2) public information and education programs for the prevention, control,
  and elimination of tuberculosis; and
  `(3) education, training, and clinical skills improvement activities
  in the prevention, control, and elimination of tuberculosis for health
  professionals, including allied health professionals.
  `(b) The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only if an
  application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the application
  is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains the assurances
  required by subsection (c) and such other agreements, assurances, and
  information as the Secretary may require.
  `(c) To be eligible for a grant under subsection (a), an applicant must
  provide assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that--
  `(1) the applicant will coordinate its activities for the prevention,
  control, and elimination of tuberculosis with activities of the Centers
  for Disease Control, and State and local health agencies; and
  `(2) the applicant will submit to the Secretary an annual report on its
  activities for the prevention, control, and elimination of tuberculosis.
  `(d) In carrying out this section, the Secretary--
  `(1) shall establish criteria for the review and approval of applications
  for grants under subsection (a), including requirement of public health
  qualifications of applicants;
  `(2) shall, subject to available appropriations, make at least one grant
  under subsection (a) within each area office;
  `(3) may, at the request of an Indian tribe or tribal organization,
  provide technical assistance; and
  `(4) shall prepare and submit a report to the Committee on Energy and
  Commerce and the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
  and the Select Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate not later than
  February 1, 1994, and biennially thereafter, on the use of funds under
  this section and on the progress made toward the prevention, control,
  and elimination of tuberculosis among Indian tribes and tribal organizations.
  `(e) The Secretary may, at the request of a recipient of a grant under
  subsection (a), reduce the amount of such grant by--
  `(1) the fair market value of any supplies or equipment furnished the
  grant recipient; and
  `(2) the amount of the pay, allowances, and travel expenses of any officer
  or employee of the Government when detailed to the grant recipient and
  the amount of any other costs incurred in connection with the detail of
  such officer or employee,
when the furnishing of such supplies or equipment or the detail of such an
officer or employee is for the convenience of and at the request of such
grant recipient and for the purpose of carrying out a program with respect to
which the grant under subsection (a) is made. The amount by which any such
grant is so reduced shall be available for payment by the Secretary of the
costs incurred in furnishing the supplies or equipment, or in detailing the
personnel, on which the reduction of such grant is based, and such amount
shall be deemed as part of the grant and shall be deemed to have been paid
to the grant recipient.'.
SEC. 215. CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 214 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new sections:
`CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES PAYMENT STUDY
  `SEC. 219. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service and in consultation
  with representatives of Indian tribes and tribal organizations operating
  contract health care programs under the Indian Self-Determination Act (25
  U.S.C. 450f et seq.) or under self-governance compacts, Service personnel,
  private contract health services providers, the Indian Health Service
  Fiscal Intermediary, and other appropriate experts, shall conduct a study--
  `(1) to assess and identify administrative barriers that hinder the timely
  payment for services delivered by private contract health services providers
  to individual Indians by the Service and the Indian Health Service Fiscal
  Intermediary;
  `(2) to assess and identify the impact of such delayed payments upon the
  personal credit histories of individual Indians who have been treated by
  such providers; and
  `(3) to determine the most efficient and effective means of improving
  the Service's contract health services payment system and ensuring the
  development of appropriate consumer protection policies to protect individual
  Indians who receive authorized services from private contract health services
  providers from billing and collection practices, including the development
  of materials and programs explaining patients' rights and responsibilities.
  `(b) The study required by subsection (a) shall--
  `(1) assess the impact of the existing contract health services regulations
  and policies upon the ability of the Service and the Indian Health
  Service Fiscal Intermediary to process, on a timely and efficient basis,
  the payment of bills submitted by private contract health services providers;
  `(2) assess the financial and any other burdens imposed upon individual
  Indians and private contract health services providers by delayed payments;
  `(3) survey the policies and practices of collection agencies used
  by contract health services providers to collect payments for services
  rendered to individual Indians;
  `(4) identify appropriate changes in Federal policies, administrative
  procedures, and regulations, to eliminate the problems experienced by
  private contract health services providers and individual Indians as a
  result of delayed payments; and
  `(5) compare the Service's payment processing requirements with private
  insurance claims processing requirements to evaluate the systemic differences
  or similarities employed by the Service and private insurers.
  `(c) Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this
  section, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress a report that
  includes--
  `(1) a detailed description of the study conducted pursuant to this
  section; and
  `(2) a discussion of the findings and conclusions of such study.
`PROMPT ACTION ON PAYMENT OF CLAIMS
  `SEC. 220. (a) The Service shall respond to a notification of a claim by
  a provider of a contract care service with either an individual purchase
  order or a denial of the claim within 5 working days after the receipt of
  such notification.
  `(b) If the Service fails to respond to a notification of a claim in
  accordance with subsection (a), the Service shall accept as valid the
  claim submitted by the provider of a contract care service.
  `(c) The Service shall pay a completed contract care service claim within
  30 days after completion of the claim.
`DEMONSTRATION OF ELECTRONIC CLAIMS PROCESSING
  `SEC. 221. (a) Not later than June 15, 1993, the Secretary shall develop and
  implement, directly or by contract, 2 projects to demonstrate in a pilot
  setting the use of claims processing technology to improve the accuracy
  and timeliness of the billing for, and payment of, contract health services.
  `(b) The Secretary shall conduct one of the projects authorized in
  subsection (a) in the Service area served by the area office located in
  Phoenix, Arizona.
`LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT
  `SEC. 222. (a) A patient who receives contract health care services that
  are authorized by the Service shall not be liable for the payment of any
  charges or costs associated with the provision of such services.
  `(b) The Secretary shall notify a contract care provider and any patient who
  receives contract health care services authorized by the Service that such
  patient is not liable for the payment of any charges or costs associated
  with the provision of such services.'.
SEC. 216. OFFICE OF WOMEN'S INDIAN HEALTH CARE.
  Title II of the Act (as amended by section 215 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`OFFICE OF INDIAN WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE
  `SEC. 223. There is established within the Service an Office of Indian
  Women's Health Care to oversee efforts of the Service to monitor and
  improve the quality of health care for Indian women of all ages through
  the planning and delivery of programs administered by the Service, in
  order to improve and enhance the treatment models of care for Indian women.'.
SEC. 217. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title II of the Act (as amended by section 216 of this
  Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 224. Except as provided in sections 209(m), 211, 213, 214(b)(5),
  215, and 216, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may
  be necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Title II of the Act is amended--
  (1) in section 201(h), by striking out the first sentence and striking out
  `subsection' and inserting in lieu thereof `section'.
  (2) in section 202, by striking out subsection (e);
  (3) in section 204(e), by striking out the first sentence and striking out
  `subsection (c)' and inserting in lieu thereof `this section'; and
  (4) in section 209 (as amended by section 902(3)(B) of this Act)--
  (A) by striking out subsections (c)(5), (d)(6), (f)(4), and (g)(5);
  (B) in subsection (h)--
  (i) by striking out paragraph (2) and by striking out `(1)';
  (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and
  (2), respectively;
  (iii) by striking out `subparagraph (A)' and inserting `paragraph (1)'; and
  (iv) by striking out `subparagraph (B)' and inserting `paragraph (2)';
  (C) in subsection (i), by striking out paragraph (2) and by striking out
  `(1)';
  (D) in subsection (d)(3)(B), by striking out `this subsection' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `this section'; and
  (E) in subsection (k)(6), by striking out the first sentence and in the
  second sentence by striking out `subsection' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `section'.
TITLE III--HEALTH FACILITIES
SEC. 301. HEALTH FACILITIES CLOSURE AND PRIORITIES.
  Section 301 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1631) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking out `Hospitals' and inserting
  `Health Care Organizations';
  (2) in subsection (b)(1)--
  (A) in the material preceding subparagraph (A), by striking out `other'
  before `outpatient';
  (B) by striking out `and' at the end of subparagraph (D);
  (C) by striking out the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting
  in lieu thereof a semicolon; and
  (D) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
  `(F) the level of utilization of such hospital or facility by all eligible
  Indians; and
  `(G) the distance between such hospital or facility and the nearest
  operating Service hospital.';
  (3) by striking out subsection (c) and redesignating subsections (d) and
  (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively;
  (4) in subsection (c)(1) (as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this
  subsection), by amending the material preceding subparagraph (A) to read
  as follows:
  `(c)(1) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in
  each report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,
  a report which sets forth--'; and
  (5) by striking out paragraph (2) of subsection (c) (as redesignated by
  paragraph (2)) and redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) of such
  subsection as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively.
SEC. 302. SAFE WATER AND SANITARY WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
  Section 302 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1632) is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
  `(e)(1) The Secretary is authorized to provide financial assistance to
  Indian tribes and communities in an amount equal to the Federal share of
  the costs of operating, managing, and maintaining the facilities provided
  under the plan described in subsection (c).
  `(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1), the term `Federal share' means 80
  percent of the costs described in paragraph (1).
  `(3) With respect to Indian tribes with fewer than 1,000 enrolled members,
  the non-Federal portion of the costs of operating, managing, and maintaining
  such facilities may be provided, in part, through cash donations or in
  kind property, fairly evaluated.';
  (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking out `subsection (h)' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `this section'; and
  (3) in subsection (g)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `The Secretary' through `report'
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `The Secretary shall submit
  to the President, for inclusion in each report required to be transmitted
  to the Congress under section 801, a report'; and
  (B) by striking out paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3), (4),
  (5), and (6) as paragraphs (2), (3), (4), and (5), respectively.
SEC. 303. AMBULATORY CARE FACILITIES GRANT PROGRAM.
  Section 306 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1636) is amended to read as follows:
`GRANT PROGRAM FOR THE CONSTRUCTION, EXPANSION, AND MODERNIZATION OF SMALL
AMBULATORY CARE FACILITIES
  `SEC. 306. (a)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make
  grants to tribes and tribal organizations for the construction, expansion,
  or modernization of facilities for the provision of ambulatory care services
  to eligible Indians (and noneligible persons as provided in subsection
  (c)(1)(C)). A grant made under this section may cover up to 100 percent
  of the costs of such construction, expansion, or modernization. For the
  purposes of this section, the term `construction' includes the replacement
  of an existing facility.
  `(2) A grant under paragraph (1) may only be made to a tribe or tribal
  organization operating an Indian health facility (other than a facility
  owned or constructed by the Service, including a facility originally owned or
  constructed by the Service and transferred to a tribe or tribal organization)
  pursuant to a contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act.
  `(b)(1) A grant provided under this section may be used only for the
  construction, expansion, or modernization (including the planning and
  design of such construction, expansion, or modernization) of an ambulatory
  care facility--
  `(A) located apart from a hospital;
  `(B) not funded under section 301 or section 307; and
  `(C) which, upon completion of such construction, expansion, or modernization
  will--
  `(i) have a total capacity appropriate to its projected service population;
  `(ii) serve no less than 500 eligible Indians annually; and
  `(iii) provide ambulatory care in a service area (specified in the contract
  entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act) with a population
  of not less than 2,000 eligible Indians.
  `(2) The requirements of clauses (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (1)(C) shall
  not apply to a tribe or tribal organization applying for a grant under
  this section whose tribal government offices are located on an island.
  `(c)(1) No grant may be made under this section unless an application
  for such a grant has been submitted to and approved by the Secretary. An
  application for a grant under this section shall be submitted in such
  form and manner as the Secretary shall by regulation prescribe and shall
  set forth reasonable assurance by the applicant  that, at all times after
  the construction, expansion, or modernization of a facility carried out
  pursuant to a grant received under this section--
  `(A) adequate financial support will be available for the provision of
  services at such facility;
  `(B) such facility will be available to eligible Indians without regard
  to ability to pay or source of payment; and
  `(C) such facility will, as feasible without diminishing the quality
  or quantity of services provided to eligible Indians, serve noneligible
  persons on a cost basis.
  `(2) In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give
  priority to tribes and tribal organizations that demonstrate--
  `(A) a need for increased ambulatory care services; and
  `(B) insufficient capacity to deliver such services.
  `(d) If any facility (or portion thereof) with respect to which funds have
  been paid under this section, ceases, at any time after completion of the
  construction, expansion, or modernization carried out with such funds,
  to be utilized for the purposes of providing ambulatory care services to
  eligible Indians, all of the right, title, and interest in and to such
  facility (or portion thereof) shall transfer to the United States.'.
SEC. 304. INDIAN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
  (a) AWARDING OF GRANTS- Section 307(c) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1637(c)(3))
  is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting `or program' immediately after
  `facility' each place it appears;
  (2) in paragraph (3)(A)--
  (A) by striking `The' and inserting `On or before September 30, 1995,
  the'; and
  (B) by adding before the colon the following: `and for which a completed
  application has been received by the Secretary'; and
  (3) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
  `(B) The Secretary may also enter into contracts or award grants under
  this section taking into consideration applications received under this
  section from all service areas. The Secretary may not award a greater
  number of such contracts or grants in one service area than in any other
  service area until there is an equal number of such contracts or grants
  awarded with respect to all service areas from which the Secretary receives
  applications during the application period (as determined by the Secretary)
  which meet the criteria specified in paragraph (1).'.
  (b) REPORTS- Section 307(h) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1637(h)) is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(h)(1) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the
  report which is required to be submitted to the Congress under section 801
  for fiscal year 1997, an interim report on the findings and conclusions
  derived from the demonstration projects established under this section.
  `(2) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the
  report which is required to be submitted to the Congress under section
  801 for fiscal year 1999, a final report on the findings and conclusions
  derived from the demonstration projects established under this section,
  together with legislative recommendations.'.
SEC. 305. EXPENDITURE OF NONSERVICE FUNDS FOR RENOVATION.
  Section 305 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1634) is amended to read as follows:
`EXPENDITURE OF NONSERVICE FUNDS FOR RENOVATION
  `SEC. 305. (a)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary
  is authorized to accept any major renovation or modernization by any
  Indian tribe of any Service facility, or of any other Indian health
  facility operated pursuant to a contract entered into under the Indian
  Self-Determination Act, including--
  `(A) any plans or designs for such renovation or modernization; and
  `(B) any renovation or modernization for which funds appropriated under
  any Federal law were lawfully expended,
but only if the requirements of subsection (b) are met.
  `(2) The Secretary shall maintain a separate priority list to address the
  needs of such facilities for personnel or equipment.
  `(3) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in each
  report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,
  the priority list maintained pursuant to paragraph (2).
  `(b) The requirements of this subsection are met with respect to any
  renovation or modernization if--
  `(1) the tribe or tribal organization--
  `(A) provides notice to the Secretary of its intent to renovate or
  modernize; and
  `(B) applies to the Secretary to be placed on a separate priority list to
  address the needs of such new facilities for personnel or equipment; and
  `(2) the renovation or modernization--
  `(A) is approved by the appropriate area director of the Service; and
  `(B) is administered by the tribe in accordance with the rules and
  regulations prescribed by the Secretary with respect to construction or
  renovation of Service facilities.
  `(c) If any Service facility which has been renovated or modernized
  by an Indian tribe under this section ceases to be used as a Service
  facility during the 20-year period beginning on the date such renovation or
  modernization is completed, such Indian tribe shall be entitled to recover
  from the United States an amount which bears the same ratio to the value of
  such facility at the time of such cessation as the value of such renovation
  or modernization (less the total amount of any funds provided specifically
  for such facility under any Federal program that were expended for such
  renovation or modernization) bore to the value of such facility at the
  time of the completion of such renovation or modernization.'.
SEC. 306. LAND TRANSFER.
  Title III of the Act is amended by adding at the end the following new
  section:
`LAND TRANSFER
  `SEC. 308. The Bureau of Indian Affairs is authorized to transfer,
  at no cost, up to 5 acres of land at the Chemawa Indian School, Salem,
  Oregon, to the Service for the provision of health care services. The land
  authorized to be transferred by this section is that land adjacent to land
  under the jurisdiction of the Service and occupied by the Chemawa Indian
  Health Center.'.
SEC. 307. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title III of the Act (as amended by section 306 of this
  Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 309. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Title III of the Act is amended--
  (1) in section 302, by striking out subsection (h); and
  (2) in section 307, by striking out subsection (i).
SEC. 308. BUY AMERICAN REQUIREMENT.
  Title III of the Act (as amended by section 307 of this Act) is amended
  by adding at the end the following new section:
`APPLICABILITY OF BUY AMERICAN REQUIREMENT
  `SEC. 310. (a) The Secretary shall ensure that the requirements of the Buy
  American Act apply to all procurements made with funds provided pursuant
  to the authorization contained in section 309.
  `(b) The Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report on the amount of
  procurements from foreign entities made in fiscal years 1993 and 1994 with
  funds provided pursuant to the authorization contained in section 309. Such
  report shall separately indicate the dollar value of items procured with
  such funds for which the Buy American Act was waived pursuant to the Trade
  Agreement Act of 1979 or any international agreement to which the United
  States is a party.
  `(c) If it has been finally determined by a court or Federal agency that
  any person intentionally affixed a label bearing a `Made in America'
  inscription, or any inscription with the same meaning, to any product sold
  in or shipped to the United States that is not made in the United States,
  such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made
  with funds provided pursuant to the authorization contained in section 309,
  pursuant to the debarment, suspension, and ineligibility procedures described
  in sections 9.400 through 9.409 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations.
  `(d) For purposes of this section, the term `Buy American Act' means title
  III of the Act entitled `An Act making appropriations for the Treasury
  and Post Office Departments for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1934,
  and for other purposes', approved March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a et seq.).'.
TITLE IV--ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES
SEC. 401. TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS TO INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE FACILITIES UNDER
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID PROGRAMS.
  (a) MEDICARE PROGRAM- Section 401 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1395qq note)
  is amended to read as follows:
`TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS UNDER MEDICARE PROGRAM
  `SEC. 401. (a) Any payments received by a hospital or skilled nursing
  facility of the Service (whether operated by the Service or by an Indian
  tribe or tribal organization pursuant to a contract under the Indian
  Self-Determination Act) for services provided to Indians eligible for
  benefits under title XVIII of the Social Security Act shall not be considered
  in determining appropriations for health care and services to Indians.
  `(b) Nothing in this Act authorizes the Secretary to provide services
  to an Indian beneficiary with coverage under title XVIII of the Social
  Security Act, as amended, in preference to an Indian beneficiary without
  such coverage.'.
  (b) MEDICAID PROGRAM- (1) Section 402 of the Act is amended to read
  as follows:
`TREATMENT OF PAYMENTS UNDER MEDICAID PROGRAM
  `SEC. 402. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, payments to
  which any facility of the Service (including a hospital, nursing facility,
  intermediate care facility for the mentally retarded, or any other type
  of facility which provides services for which payment is available under
  title XIX of the Social Security Act) is entitled under a State plan by
  reason of section 1911 of such Act shall be placed in a special fund to be
  held by the Secretary and used by him (to such extent or in such amounts as
  are provided in appropriation Acts) exclusively for the purpose of making
  any improvements in the facilities of such Service which may be necessary
  to achieve compliance with the applicable conditions and requirements of
  such title. In making payments from such fund, the Secretary shall ensure
  that each service unit of the Service receives at least 80 percent of the
  amounts to which the facilities of the Service, for which such service
  unit makes collections, are entitled by reason of section 1911 of the
  Social Security Act.
  `(b) Any payments received by such facility for services provided to
  Indians eligible for benefits under title XIX of the Social Security Act
  shall not be considered in determining appropriations for the provision
  of health care and services to Indians.'.
  (2) The increase (from 50 percent) in the percentage of the payments from
  the fund to be made to each service unit of the Service specified in the
  amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect beginning with payments
  made on January 1, 1993.
SEC. 402. REPORT.
  Section 403 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1671 note) is amended by striking out
  `The Secretary' and all that follows through `section 701' and inserting in
  lieu thereof the following: `The Secretary shall submit to the President,
  for inclusion in the report required to be transmitted to the Congress
  under section 801,'.
SEC. 403. APPLICATION ASSISTANCE.
  Section 404 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1622) is amended--
  (1) by amending subsection (b)(4) to read as follows:
  `(4) develop and implement--
  `(A) a schedule of income levels to determine the extent of payments of
  premiums by such organizations for coverage of needy individuals; and
  `(B) methods of improving the participation of Indians in receiving
  the benefits provided under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security
  Act.'; and
  (2) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
  `(c) The Secretary, acting through the Service, may enter into an agreement
  with an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or urban Indian organization
  which provides for the receipt and processing of applications for medical
  assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act and benefits under
  title XVIII of the Social Security Act at a Service facility or a health
  care facility administered by such tribe or organization pursuant to a
  contract under the Indian Self-Determination Act.'.
SEC. 404. EXTENSION OF DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  Section 405 of the Act (42 U.S.C. 1395qq note) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (c)(2), by striking `1995' and inserting `1996'; and
  (2) in subsection (e), by striking `1995' and inserting `1996'.
SEC. 405. AUTHORIZATION FOR EMERGENCY CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES.
  Title IV of the Act is amended by adding at the end the following new
  section:
`AUTHORIZATION FOR EMERGENCY CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES
  `SEC. 406. With respect to an elderly or disabled Indian receiving
  emergency medical care or services from a non-Service provider or in a
  non-Service facility under the authority of this Act, the time limitation
  (as a condition of payment) for notifying the Service of such treatment
  or admission shall be 30 days.'.
SEC. 406. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Title IV of the Act is amended by adding at the end the following new
  section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 407. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
TITLE V--HEALTH SERVICES FOR URBAN INDIANS
SEC. 501. GRANT AUTHORITY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 502 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1652) is amended--
  (1) by striking `contracts with' and inserting the following: `contracts
  with, or make grants to,';
  (2) by inserting after `enters into with' the following: `, or in any
  grant the Secretary makes to,'; and
  (3) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`CONTRACTS WITH, AND GRANTS TO, URBAN INDIAN ORGANIZATIONS'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 503 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1653)
  is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), in the material preceding paragraph (1)--
  (i) by inserting `, or make grants to,' after `contracts with'; and
  (ii) by inserting `or grant' after `such contract';
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) in the material preceding paragraph (1), by inserting `or receive
  grants' after `enter into contracts'; and
  (ii) in paragraph (5), by inserting `or to meet the requirements for
  receiving a grant' after `Secretary';
  (C) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `or receiving grants under subsection (a)';
  (D) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `or receiving grants under subsection (a)';
  (E) in subsection (e)(1), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `or receiving grants under subsection (a)';
  (F) in subsection (f), by inserting `or receiving grants under subsection
  (a)' after `this section'; and
  (G) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`CONTRACTS AND GRANTS FOR THE PROVISION OF HEALTH CARE AND REFERRAL SERVICES'.
  (2) Section 504 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1654) is amended--
  (A) by striking `SEC. 504.' and all that follows through the end of
  subsection (a) and inserting the following:
  `SEC. 504. (a) Under authority of the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13),
  popularly known as the Snyder Act, the Secretary, through the Service, may
  enter into contracts with, or make grants to, urban Indian organizations
  situated in urban centers for which contracts have not been entered into,
  or grants have not been made, under section 503. The purpose of a contract
  or grant made under this section shall be the determination of the matters
  described in subsection (b)(1) in order to assist the Secretary in assessing
  the health status and health care needs of urban Indians in the urban
  center involved and determining whether the Secretary should enter into
  a contract or make a grant under section 503 with respect to the urban
  Indian organization which the Secretary has entered into a contract with,
  or made a grant to, under this section.';
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) in the material preceding paragraph (1), by inserting `, or grant made,'
  after `contract entered into'; and
  (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking `within one year' and all that follows
  through the period at the end and inserting the following: `, or carry out
  the requirements of the grant, within one year after the date on which the
  Secretary and such organization enter into such contract, or within one
  year after such organization receives such grant, whichever is applicable.';
  (C) in subsection (c), by inserting `, or grant made,' after `entered
  into'; and
  (D) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`CONTRACTS AND GRANTS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF UNMET HEALTH CARE NEEDS'.
  (3) Section 505 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1655) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a), by inserting `compliance with grant requirements
  under this title and' before `compliance with,';
  (B) in subsection (b)--
  (i) by inserting `or received a grant' after `entered into a contract'; and
  (ii) by inserting before the period at the end the following: `or the
  terms of such grant';
  (C) in subsection (c)--
  (i) by inserting `the requirements of a grant or complied with' after
  `complied with';
  (ii) by inserting `or grant' after `such contract' each place it appears';
  (iii) by inserting `or make a grant' after `enter into a contract'; and
  (iv) by inserting `or grant' after `whose contract';
  (D) in subsection (d), by inserting `or grant' after `a contract' each
  place it appears; and
  (E) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`EVALUATIONS; RENEWALS'.
  (4) Section 506 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1656) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (b), by inserting `or grants' after `any contracts';
  (B) in subsection (d), by inserting `or grant' after `contract' each place
  it appears;
  (C) in subsection (e)--
  (i) by inserting `, or grants to,' after `Contracts with'; and
  (ii) by inserting `or grants' after `such contracts'; and
  (D) by amending the heading to read as follows:
`OTHER CONTRACT AND GRANT REQUIREMENTS'.
  (5) Section 507 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1657) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a)--
  (i) in the material preceding paragraph (1), by inserting `, or a grant
  received,' after `entered into'; and
  (ii) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by inserting `or grant' after `contract'
  each place it appears; and
  (B) in subsections (b) and (c), by inserting `or grant' after `contract'
  each place it appears.
  (6) Section 509 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1659) (as amended by section
  902(5)(A) of this Act) is amended by inserting `or grant recipients' after
  `contractors' each place it appears.
  (7) Section 510(a) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1660(a)) (as amended by section
  902(5)(B) of this Act) is amended by inserting before the period at the
  end the following: `and for providing central oversight of the programs
  and services authorized under this title'.
SEC. 502. ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE.
  Title V of the Act is amended by inserting after section 510 (as redesignated
  by section 902(5)(B) of this Act) the following new section:
`GRANTS FOR ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE RELATED SERVICES
  `SEC. 511. (a) GRANTS- The Secretary may make grants for the provision of
  health-related services in prevention of, treatment of, rehabilitation of,
  or school and community-based education in, alcohol and substance abuse in
  urban centers to those urban Indian organizations with whom the Secretary
  has entered into a contract under this title or under section 201.
  `(b) GOALS OF GRANT- Each grant made pursuant to subsection (a) shall set
  forth the goals to be accomplished pursuant to the grant. The goals shall
  be specific to each grant as agreed to between the Secretary and the grantee.
  `(c) CRITERIA- The Secretary shall establish criteria for the grants made
  under subsection (a), including criteria relating to the--
  `(1) size of the urban Indian population;
  `(2) accessibility to, and utilization of, other health resources available
  to such population;
  `(3) duplication of existing Service or other Federal grants or contracts;
  `(4) capability of the organization to adequately perform the activities
  required under the grant;
  `(5) satisfactory performance standards for the organization in meeting the
  goals set forth in such grant, which standards shall be negotiated and agreed
  to between the Secretary and the grantee on a grant-by-grant basis; and
  `(6) identification of need for services.
`The Secretary shall develop a methodology for allocating grants made pursuant
to this section based on such criteria.
  `(d) TREATMENT OF FUNDS RECEIVED BY URBAN INDIAN ORGANIZATIONS- Any funds
  received by an urban Indian organization under this Act for substance
  abuse prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation shall be subject to the
  criteria set forth in subsection (c).'.
SEC. 503. TREATMENT OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
  Title V of the Act (as amended by section 502 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`TREATMENT OF CERTAIN DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
  `SEC. 512. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Oklahoma
  City Clinic demonstration project and the Tulsa Clinic demonstration
  project shall be treated as service units in the allocation of resources
  and coordination of care and shall not be subject to the provisions of the
  Indian Self-Determination Act for the term of such projects. The Secretary
  shall provide assistance to such projects in the development of resources
  and equipment and facility needs.
  `(b) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the
  report required to be submitted to the Congress under section 801 for
  fiscal year 1999, a report on the findings and conclusions derived from
  the demonstration projects specified in subsection (a).'.
SEC. 504. URBAN NIAAA TRANSFERRED PROGRAMS.
  Title V of the Act (as amended by section 503 of this Act) is amended by
  adding at the end the following new section:
`URBAN NIAAA TRANSFERRED PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 513. (a) The Secretary shall, within the Branch of Urban Health
  Programs of the Service, make grants or enter into contracts for the
  administration of urban Indian alcohol programs that were originally
  established under the National Institute on Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse
  (hereafter in this section referred to as `NIAAA') and transferred to
  the Service.
  `(b) Grants provided or contracts entered into under this section shall
  be used to provide support for the continuation of alcohol prevention and
  treatment services for urban Indian populations and such other objectives as
  are agreed upon between the Service and a recipient of a grant or contract
  under this section.
  `(c) Urban Indian organizations that operate Indian alcohol programs
  originally funded under NIAAA and subsequently transferred to the Service
  are eligible for grants or contracts under this section.
  `(d) For the purpose of carrying out this section, the Secretary may
  combine NIAAA alcohol funds with other substance abuse funds currently
  administered through the Branch of Urban Health Programs of the Service.
  `(e) The Secretary shall evaluate and report to the Congress on the
  activities of programs funded under this section at least every two years.'.
SEC. 505. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title V of the Act (as amended by section 504 of this
  Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 514. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Title V of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1650 et seq.) is
  amended--
  (1) in section 503--
  (A) in subsection (c), by striking out `(c)(1)' and inserting `(c)' and
  by striking out paragraph (2);
  (B) in subsection (d), by striking out paragraph (4);
  (C) in subsection (e), by striking out paragraph (4); and
  (D) in subsection (f), by striking out paragraph (5); and
  (2) in section 509 (as redesignated by section 902(5)(A) of this Act),
  by striking out the last sentence.
TITLE VI--ORGANIZATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
SEC. 601. INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE.
  Section 601(c) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1661(c)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by striking out `and' after the semicolon;
  (2) in paragraph (3), by striking out the period at the end and inserting
  in lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) all scholarship and loan functions carried out under title I.'.
SEC. 602. DIRECTOR OF INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE.
  (a) CONFIRMATION BY SENATE-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 601(a) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1661(a)) is amended
  in the second sentence by striking `Secretary' and inserting `President,
  by and with the advice and consent of the Senate'.
  (2) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall take effect
  January 1, 1993.
  (b) INTERIM APPOINTMENT- The President may appoint an individual to serve
  as Interim Director of the Service from January 1, 1993, until such time
  as a Director is appointed and confirmed as provided in section 601(a)
  of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (as
  amended by subsection (a) of this section).
  (c) TERM- Section 601(a) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1661(a)) is amended by adding
  at the end the following: `Effective with respect to an individual appointed
  by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, after
  January 1, 1993, the term of service of the Director shall be 4 years. A
  Director may serve more than 1 term.'.
SEC. 603. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Title VI of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1661 et seq.) is amended by adding at the
  end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 603. There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be
  necessary for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out
  this title.'.
TITLE VII--SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS
SEC. 701. REDESIGNATION OF EXISTING TITLE VII.
  (a) TITLE HEADING- Title VII of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) is
  redesignated as title VIII and the title heading is amended to read
  as follows:
`TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS'
  (b) REDESIGNATION OF SECTIONS- Sections 701 through 720 of the Act (25
  U.S.C. 1671 et seq.) are hereby redesignated as sections 801 through 820,
  respectively.
  (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Act is amended--
  (1) in section 207(a), by striking out `section 713' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `section 813';
  (2) in section 307(e), by striking out `section 713' and inserting in lieu
  thereof `section 813'; and
  (3) in section 405(b)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking out `sections 402(c) and 713(b)(2)(A)'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `sections 402(a) and 813(b)(2)(A)'; and
  (B) in paragraph (4), by striking out `section 402(c)' each place it
  appears and inserting in lieu thereof `section 402(a)'.
  (d) REFERENCES- Any reference in a provision of law other than the Indian
  Health Care Improvement Act to sections redesignated by subsection (b)
  shall be deemed to refer to the section as so redesignated.
SEC. 702. SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Act is amended by inserting after title VI the following
  new title:
`TITLE VII--SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROGRAMS
`INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE RESPONSIBILITIES
  `SEC. 701. The Memorandum of Agreement entered into pursuant to section
  4205 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment
  Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2411) shall include specific provisions pursuant
  to which the Service shall assume responsibility for--
  `(1) the determination of the scope of the problem of alcohol and substance
  abuse among Indian people, including the number of Indians within the
  jurisdiction of the Service who are directly or indirectly affected by
  alcohol and substance abuse and the financial and human cost;
  `(2) an assessment of the existing and needed resources necessary for the
  prevention of alcohol and substance abuse and the treatment of Indians
  affected by alcohol and substance abuse; and
  `(3) an estimate of the funding necessary to adequately support a program
  of prevention of alcohol and substance abuse and treatment of Indians
  affected by alcohol and substance abuse.
`INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE PROGRAM
  `SEC. 702. (a) COMPREHENSIVE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT PROGRAM- (1)
  The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall provide a program of
  comprehensive alcohol and substance abuse prevention and treatment which
  shall include--
  `(A) prevention, through educational intervention, in Indian communities;
  `(B) acute detoxification and treatment;
  `(C) community-based rehabilitation;
  `(D) community education and involvement, including extensive training of
  health care, educational, and community-based personnel; and
  `(E) residential treatment programs for pregnant and post partum women
  and their children.
  `(2) The target population of such program shall be members of Indian
  tribes. Efforts to train and educate key members of the Indian community
  shall target employees of health, education, judicial, law enforcement,
  legal, and social service programs.
  `(b) CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICES- (1) The Secretary, acting through the Service,
  may enter into contracts with public or private providers of alcohol and
  substance abuse treatment services for the purpose of assisting the Service
  in carrying out the program required under subsection (a).
  `(2) In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall provide assistance
  to Indian tribes to develop criteria for the certification of alcohol and
  substance abuse service providers and accreditation of service facilities
  which meet minimum standards for such services and facilities as may
  be determined pursuant to section 4205(a)(3) of the Indian Alcohol and
  Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2411(a)(3)).
  `(c) GRANTS FOR MODEL PROGRAM- (1) The Secretary, acting through the
  Service shall make a grant to the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe to develop a
  community-based demonstration project to reduce drug and alcohol abuse on
  the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation and to rehabilitate Indian families
  afflicted by such abuse.
  `(2) Funds shall be used by the Tribe to--
  `(A) develop and coordinate community-based alcohol and substance abuse
  prevention and treatment services for Indian families;
  `(B) develop prevention and intervention models for Indian families;
  `(C) conduct community education on alcohol and substance abuse; and
  `(D) coordinate with existing Federal, State, and tribal services on the
  reservation to develop a comprehensive alcohol and substance abuse program
  that assists in the rehabilitation of Indian families that have been or
  are afflicted by alcoholism.
  `(3) The Secretary shall submit to the President for inclusion in the report
  to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801 for fiscal year 1995
  an evaluation of the demonstration project established under paragraph (1).
`INDIAN WOMEN TREATMENT PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 703. (a) The Secretary may make grants to Indian tribes and tribal
  organizations to develop and implement a comprehensive alcohol and substance
  abuse program of prevention, intervention, treatment, and relapse prevention
  services that specifically addresses the cultural, historical, social,
  and child care needs of Indian women, regardless of age.
  `(b) Grants made pursuant to this section may be used to--
  `(1) develop and provide community training, education, and prevention
  programs for Indian women relating to alcohol and substance abuse issues,
  including fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effect;
  `(2) identify and provide appropriate counseling, advocacy, support,
  and relapse prevention to Indian women and their families; and
  `(3) develop prevention and intervention models for Indian women which
  incorporate traditional healers, cultural values, and community and family
  involvement.
  `(c) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval
  of applications for grants under this section.
  `(d)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as are necessary for each
  of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
  `(2) Twenty percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to this subsection
  shall be used to make grants to urban Indian organizations funded under
  title V.
`INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE YOUTH PROGRAM
  `SEC. 704. (a) DETOXIFICATION AND REHABILITATION- The Secretary shall
  develop and implement a program for acute detoxification and treatment
  for Indian youth who are alcohol and substance abusers. The program shall
  include regional treatment centers designed to include detoxification and
  rehabilitation for both sexes on a referral basis. These regional centers
  shall be integrated with the intake and rehabilitation programs based in
  the referring Indian community.
  `(b) TREATMENT CENTERS OR FACILITIES- (1) The Secretary shall construct,
  renovate, or, as necessary, purchase, and appropriately staff and operate,
  a youth regional treatment center in each area under the jurisdiction of
  an area office. For the purposes of this subsection, the area offices of
  the Service in Tucson and Phoenix, Arizona, shall be considered one area
  office and the area office in California shall be considered to be two area
  offices, one office whose jurisdiction shall be considered to encompass the
  northern area of the State of California, and one office whose jurisdiction
  shall be considered to encompass the remainder of the State of California.
  `(2) For the purpose of staffing and operating such centers or facilities,
  funding shall be pursuant to the Act of November 2, 1921 (25 U.S.C. 13).
  `(3) A youth treatment center constructed or purchased under this subsection
  shall be constructed or purchased at a location within the area described in
  paragraph (1) agreed upon (by appropriate tribal resolution) by a majority
  of the tribes to be served by such center.
  `(4)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, the Secretary
  may, from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the purposes of carrying
  out this section, make funds available to--
  `(i) the Tanana Chiefs Conference, Incorporated, for the purpose of leasing,
  constructing, renovating, operating and maintaining a residential youth
  treatment facility in Fairbanks, Alaska; and
  `(ii) the Southeast Alaska Regional Health Corporation to staff and operate a
  residential youth treatment facility without regard to the proviso set forth
  in section 4(l) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance
  Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(l)).
  `(B) Until additional residential youth treatment facilities are established
  in Alaska pursuant to this section, the facilities specified in subparagraph
  (A) shall make every effort to provide services to all eligible Indian
  youth residing in such State.
  `(c) FEDERALLY OWNED STRUCTURES-
  `(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall, in consultation
  with Indian tribes--
  `(A) identify and use, where appropriate, federally owned structures
  suitable as local residential or regional alcohol and substance abuse
  treatment centers for Indian youth; and
  `(B) establish guidelines for determining the suitability of any such
  federally owned structure to be used as a local residential or regional
  alcohol and substance abuse treatment center for Indian youth.
  `(2) Any structure described in paragraph (1) may be used under such terms
  and conditions as may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the agency having
  responsibility for the structure.
  `(d) REHABILITATION AND AFTERCARE SERVICES-
  `(1) The Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall
  develop and implement within each Service service unit community-based
  rehabilitation and follow-up services for Indian youth who are alcohol
  or substance abusers which are designed to integrate long-term treatment
  and to monitor and support the Indian youth after their return to their
  home community.
  `(2) Services under paragraph (1) shall be administered within each service
  unit by trained staff within the community who can assist the Indian youth
  in continuing development of self-image, positive problem-solving skills,
  and nonalcohol or substance abusing behaviors. Such staff shall include
  alcohol and substance abuse counselors, mental health professionals,
  and other health professionals and paraprofessionals, including community
  health representatives.
  `(e) INCLUSION OF FAMILY IN YOUTH TREATMENT PROGRAM- In providing the
  treatment and other services to Indian youth authorized by this section,
  the Secretary shall provide for the inclusion of family members of such youth
  in the treatment programs or other services as may be appropriate. Not less
  than 10 percent of the funds appropriated for the purposes of carrying out
  subsection (d) shall be used for outpatient care of adult family members
  related to the treatment of an Indian youth under that subsection.
  `(f) MULTIDRUG ABUSE STUDY- (1) The Secretary shall conduct a study to
  determine the incidence and prevalence of the abuse of multiple forms
  of drugs, including alcohol, among Indian youth residing on Indian
  reservations and in urban areas and the interrelationship of such abuse
  with the incidence of mental illness among such youth.
  `(2) The Secretary shall submit a report detailing the findings of such
  study, together with recommendations based on such findings, to the Congress
  no later than two years after the date of the enactment of this section.
`TRAINING AND COMMUNITY EDUCATION
  `SEC. 705. (a) COMMUNITY EDUCATION- The Secretary, in cooperation with
  the Secretary of the Interior, shall develop and implement within each
  service unit a program of community education and involvement which shall
  be designed to provide concise and timely information to the community
  leadership of each tribal community. Such program shall include education
  in alcohol and substance abuse to political leaders, tribal judges, law
  enforcement personnel, members of tribal health and education boards,
  and other critical members of each tribal community.
  `(b) TRAINING- The Secretary shall, either directly or by contract,
  provide instruction in the area of alcohol and substance abuse, including
  instruction in crisis intervention and family relations in the context of
  alcohol and substance abuse, youth alcohol and substance abuse, and the
  causes and effects of fetal alcohol syndrome to appropriate employees of
  the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service, and to personnel in schools
  or programs operated under any contract with the Bureau of Indian Affairs
  or the Service, including supervisors of emergency shelters and halfway
  houses described in section 4213 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse
  Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2433).
  `(c) COMMUNITY-BASED TRAINING MODELS- In carrying out the education and
  training programs required by this section, the Secretary, acting through
  the Service and in consultation with tribes and Indian alcohol and substance
  abuse prevention experts, shall develop and provide community-based training
  models. Such models shall address--
  `(1) the elevated risk of alcohol and substance abuse faced by children
  of alcoholics;
  `(2) the cultural and multigenerational aspects of alcohol and substance
  abuse prevention and recovery; and
  `(3) community-based and multidisciplinary strategies for preventing and
  treating alcohol and substance abuse.
`GALLUP ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT CENTER
  `SEC. 706. (a) GRANTS FOR RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT- The Secretary shall
  make grants to the Navajo Nation for the purpose of providing residential
  treatment for alcohol and substance abuse for adult and adolescent members
  of the Navajo Nation and neighboring tribes.
  `(b) PURPOSES OF GRANTS- Grants made pursuant to this section shall (to
  the extent appropriations are made available) be used to--
  `(1) provide at least 15 residential beds each year for adult long-term
  treatment, including beds for specialized services such as polydrug
  abusers, dual diagnosis, and specialized services for women with fetal
  alcohol syndrome children;
  `(2) establish clinical assessment teams consisting of a clinical
  psychologist, a part-time addictionologist, a master's level assessment
  counselor, and a certified medical records technician which shall be
  responsible for conducting individual assessments and matching Indian
  clients with the appropriate available treatment;
  `(3) provide at least 12 beds for an adolescent shelterbed program in
  the city of Gallup, New Mexico, which shall serve as a satellite facility
  to the Acoma/Canoncito/Laguna Hospital and the adolescent center located
  in Shiprock, New Mexico, for emergency crisis services, assessment, and
  family intervention;
  `(4) develop a relapse program for the purposes of identifying sources of
  job training and job opportunity in the Gallup area and providing vocational
  training, job placement, and job retention services to recovering substance
  abusers; and
  `(5) provide continuing education and training of treatment staff in the
  areas of intensive outpatient services, development of family support
  systems, and case management in cooperation with regional colleges,
  community colleges, and universities.
  `(c) CONTRACT FOR RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT- The Navajo Nation, in carrying out
  the purposes of this section, shall enter into a contract with an institution
  in the Gallup, New Mexico, area which is accredited by the Joint Commission
  of the Accreditation of Health Care Organizations to provide comprehensive
  alcohol and drug treatment as authorized in subsection (b).
  `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be
  appropriated--
  `(1) to carry out the purposes of subsection (b)(1)--
  `(A) $400,000 for fiscal year 1993;
  `(B) $400,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  `(C) $500,000 for fiscal year 1995;
  `(2) to carry out the purposes of subsection (b)(2)--
  `(A) $100,000 for fiscal year 1993;
  `(B) $125,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  `(C) $150,000 for fiscal year 1995;
  `(3) to carry out the purposes of subsection (b)(3)--
  `(A) $75,000 for fiscal year 1993;
  `(B) $85,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  `(C) $100,000 for fiscal year 1995;
  `(4) to carry out the purposes of subsection (b)(4), $150,000 for each of
  fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995; and
  `(5) to carry out the purposes of subsection (b)(5)--
  `(A) $75,000 for fiscal year 1993;
  `(B) $90,000 for fiscal year 1994; and
  `(C) $100,000 for fiscal year 1995.
`REPORTS
  `SEC. 707. (a) COMPILATION OF DATA- The Secretary, with respect to the
  administration of any health program by a service unit, directly or through
  contract, including a contract under the Indian Self-Determination Act,
  shall require the compilation of data relating to the number of cases or
  incidents in which any Service personnel or services were involved and
  which were related, either directly or indirectly, to alcohol or substance
  abuse. Such report shall include the type of assistance provided and the
  disposition of these cases.
  `(b) REFERRAL OF DATA- The data compiled under subsection (a) shall be
  provided annually to the affected Indian tribe and Tribal Coordinating
  Committee to assist them in developing or modifying a Tribal Action Plan
  under section 4206 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention
  and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2471 et seq.).
  `(c) COMPREHENSIVE REPORT- Each service unit director shall be responsible
  for assembling the data compiled under this section and section 4214 of
  the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of
  1986 (25 U.S.C. 2434) into an annual tribal comprehensive report. Such
  report shall be provided to the affected tribe and to the Director of the
  Service who shall develop and publish a biennial national report based on
  such tribal comprehensive reports.
`FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME AND FETAL ALCOHOL EFFECT GRANTS
  `SEC. 708. (a)(1) The Secretary may make grants to Indian tribes and tribal
  organizations to establish fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effect
  programs as provided in this section for the purposes of meeting the health
  status objectives specified in section 3(b).
  `(2) Grants made pursuant to this section shall be used to--
  `(A) develop and provide community and in-school training, education,
  and prevention programs relating to FAS and FAE;
  `(B) identify and provide alcohol and substance abuse treatment to
  high-risk women;
  `(C) identify and provide appropriate educational and vocational support,
  counseling, advocacy, and information to FAS and FAE affected persons and
  their families or caretakers;
  `(D) develop and implement counseling and support programs in schools for
  FAS and FAE affected children;
  `(E) develop prevention and intervention models which incorporate traditional
  healers, cultural values and community involvement;
  `(F) develop, print, and disseminate education and prevention materials
  on FAS and FAE; and
  `(G) develop and implement, through the tribal consultation process,
  culturally sensitive assessment and diagnostic tools for use in tribal
  and urban Indian communities.
  `(3) The Secretary shall establish criteria for the review and approval
  of applications for grants under this section.
  `(b) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall--
  `(1) develop an annual plan for the prevention, intervention, treatment,
  and aftercare for those affected by FAS and FAE in Indian communities;
  `(2) conduct a study, directly or by contract with any organization,
  entity, or institution of higher education with significant knowledge of
  FAS and FAE and Indian communities, of the special educational, vocational,
  school-to-work transition, and independent living needs of adolescent and
  adult Indians and Alaska Natives with FAS or FAE; and
  `(3) establish a national clearinghouse for prevention and educational
  materials and other information on FAS and FAE effect in Indian and Alaska
  Native communities and ensure access to clearinghouse materials by any
  Indian tribe or urban Indian organization.
  `(c) The Secretary shall establish a task force to be known as the FAS/FAE
  Task Force to advise the Secretary in carrying out subsection (b). Such task
  force shall be composed of representatives from the National Institute on
  Drug Abuse, the National Institute on Alcohol and Alcoholism, the Office
  of Substance Abuse Prevention, the National Institute of Mental Health,
  the Service, the Office of Minority Health of the Department of Health
  and Human Services, the  Administration for Native Americans, the Bureau
  of Indian Affairs, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, urban Indian
  communities, and Indian FAS/FAE experts.
  `(d) The Secretary, acting through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
  Services Administration, shall make grants to Indian tribes, tribal
  organizations, universities working with Indian tribes on cooperative
  projects, and urban Indian organizations for applied research projects which
  propose to elevate the understanding of methods to prevent, intervene, treat,
  or provide aftercare for Indians and urban Indians affected by FAS or FAE.
  `(e)(1) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in each
  report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801, a
  report on the status of FAS and FAE in the Indian population. Such report
  shall include, in addition to the information required under section
  (3)(d) with respect to the health status objective specified in section
  (3)(b)(27), the following:
  `(A) The progress of implementing a uniform assessment and diagnostic
  methodology in Service and tribally based service delivery systems.
  `(B) The incidence of FAS and FAE babies born for all births by reservation
  and urban-based sites.
  `(C) The prevalence of FAS and FAE affected Indian persons in Indian
  communities, their primary means of support, and recommendations to improve
  the support system for these individuals and their families or caretakers.
  `(D) The level of support received from the entities specified in subsection
  (c) in the area of FAS and FAE.
  `(E) The number of inpatient and outpatient substance abuse treatment
  resources which are specifically designed to meet the unique needs of Indian
  women, and the volume of care provided to Indian women through these means.
  `(F) Recommendations regarding the prevention, intervention, and appropriate
  vocational, educational and other support services for FAS and FAE affected
  individuals in Indian communities.
  `(2) The Secretary may contract the production of this report to a national
  organization specifically addressing FAS and FAE in Indian communities.
  `(f)(1) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section
  $22,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
  `(2) Ten percent of the funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall
  be used to make grants to urban Indian organizations funded under title V.
`PUEBLO SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT PROJECT FOR SAN JUAN PUEBLO, NEW MEXICO
  `SEC. 709. The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall continue to make
  grants, through fiscal year 1995, to the 8 Northern Indian Pueblos Council,
  San Juan Pueblo, New Mexico, for the purpose of providing substance abuse
  treatment services to Indians in need of such services.
`THUNDER CHILD TREATMENT CENTER
  `SEC. 710. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make a grant
  to the Intertribal Addictions Recovery Organization, Inc. (commonly known as
  the Thunder Child Treatment Center) at Sheridan, Wyoming, for the completion
  of construction of a multiple approach substance abuse treatment center
  which specializes in the treatment of alcohol and drug abuse of Indians.
  `(b) For the purposes of carrying out subsection (a), there are authorized
  to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fiscal years 1993 and 1994. No funding
  shall be available for staffing or operation of this facility. None of
  the funding appropriated to carry out subsection (a) shall be used for
  administrative purposes.
`SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELOR EDUCATION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  `SEC. 711. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, may enter into
  contracts with, or make grants to, accredited tribally controlled community
  colleges, tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions,
  and eligible community colleges to establish demonstration projects to
  develop educational curricula for substance abuse counseling.
  `(b) Funds provided under this section shall be used only for developing and
  providing educational curricula for substance abuse counseling (including
  paying salaries for instructors). Such curricula may be provided through
  satellite campus programs.
  `(c) A contract entered into or a grant provided under this section shall
  be for a period of one year. Such contract or grant may be renewed for an
  additional one year period upon the approval of the Secretary.
  `(d) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section,
  the Secretary, after consultation with Indian tribes and administrators
  of accredited tribally controlled community colleges, tribally controlled
  postsecondary vocational institutions, and eligible community colleges,
  shall develop and issue criteria for the review and approval of applications
  for funding (including applications for renewals of funding) under this
  section. Such criteria shall ensure that demonstration projects established
  under this section promote the development of the capacity of such entities
  to educate substance abuse counselors.
  `(e) The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as
  may be necessary to enable grant recipients to comply with the provisions
  of this section.
  `(f) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the report
  which is required to be submitted under section 801 for fiscal year 1999,
  a report on the findings and conclusions derived from the demonstration
  projects conducted under this section.
  `(g) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
  `(1) The term `educational curriculum' means one or more of the following:
  `(A) Classroom education.
  `(B) Clinical work experience.
  `(C) Continuing education workshops.
  `(2) The term `eligible community college' means an accredited community
  college that--
  `(i) is located on or near an Indian reservation;
  `(ii) has entered into a cooperative agreement with the governing body of
  such Indian reservation to carry out a demonstration project under this
  section; and
  `(iii) has a student enrollment of not less than 10 percent Indian.
  `(3) The term `tribally controlled community college' has the meaning
  given such term in section 2(a)(4) of the Tribally Controlled Community
  College Assistance Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1801(a)(4)).
  `(4) The term `tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institution'
  has the meaning given such term in section 390(2) of the Tribally Controlled
  Vocational Institutions Support Act of 1990 (20 U.S.C. 2397h(2)).
  `(h) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years
  1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997, such sums as may be necessary to carry
  out the purposes of this section. Such sums shall remain available until
  expended.
`GILA RIVER ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT FACILITY
  `SEC. 712. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish
  a regional youth alcohol and substance abuse prevention and treatment
  center in Sacaton, Arizona, on the Gila River Indian Reservation. The
  center shall be established within facilities leased, with the consent of
  the Gila River Indian Community, by the Service from such Community.
  `(b) The center established pursuant to this section shall be known as the
  `Regional Youth Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Center'.
  `(c) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall establish, as a unit
  of the regional center, a youth alcohol and substance abuse prevention
  and treatment facility in Fallon, Nevada.
`ALASKA NATIVE DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  `SEC. 713. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make
  grants to the Alaska Native Health Board for the conduct of a two-part
  community-based demonstration project to reduce drug and alcohol abuse
  in Alaska Native villages and to rehabilitate families afflicted by such
  abuse. Sixty percent of such grant funds shall be used by the Health Board
  to stimulate coordinated community development programs in villages seeking
  to organize to combat alcohol and drug use. Forty percent of such grant
  funds shall be transferred to a qualified nonprofit corporation providing
  alcohol recovery services in the village of St. Mary's, Alaska, to enlarge
  and strengthen a family life demonstration program of rehabilitation for
  families that have been or are afflicted by alcoholism.
  `(b) The Secretary shall submit to the President for inclusion in the
  report required to be submitted to the Congress under section 801 for
  fiscal year 1995 an evaluation of the demonstration project established
  under subsection (a).
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 714. Except as provided in sections 703, 706, 708, 710, and 711,
  there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for
  each fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to carry out the provisions of
  this title.'.
  (b) REDESIGNATION AND REPEAL OF EXISTING PROVISIONS-
  (1) REDESIGNATION- The Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and
  Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.) is amended by redesignating
  section 4224 as section 4208A.
  (2) REPEAL- Part 6 of the Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention
  and Treatment Act of 1986 (25 U.S.C. 2471 et seq.), as amended by paragraph
  (1), is hereby repealed.
SEC. 703. INDIAN ALCOHOL AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT ACT
OF 1986 AMENDMENTS.
  The Indian Alcohol and Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act of 1986
  (25 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.) is amended--
  (1) in section 4206--
  (A) in subsection (c)--
  (i) in paragraph (2)--
  (I) by striking `(2) the' and inserting `(B) the';
  (II) by striking `(3) the' and inserting `(C) the';
  (III) by striking `(4) the' and inserting `(D) the';
  (IV) in subparagraph (D) (as redesignated by subclause (III)), by striking
  `and' at the end;
  (V) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end and inserting
  `, and'; and
  (VI) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(F) an evaluation component to measure the success of efforts made.'; and
  (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) All Tribal Action Plans shall be updated every 2 years.'; and
  (B) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
  `(2) There are authorized to be appropriated for grants under this
  subsection not more than $2,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as
  are necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998,
  1999, and 2000.'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(f)(1) The Secretary of the Interior may make grants to Indian tribes
  adopting a resolution pursuant to subsection (a) to implement and develop
  community and in-school training, education, and prevention programs on
  alcohol and substance abuse, fetal alcohol syndrome and fetal alcohol effect.
  `(2) Funds provided under this section may be used for, but are not limited
  to, the development and implementation of tribal programs for--
  `(A) youth employment;
  `(B) youth recreation;
  `(C) youth cultural activities;
  `(D) community awareness programs; and
  `(E) community training and education programs.
  `(3) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the provisions
  of this subsection $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as are
  necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
  and 2000.';
  (2) in section 4207(b), by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
  `(3) The Assistant Secretary of the Interior for Indian Affairs shall
  appoint such employees to work in the Office of Alcohol and Substance
  Abuse, and shall provide such funding, services, and equipment as may be
  necessary to enable the Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse to carry
  out its responsibilities.';
  (3) in section 4210, by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to carry out this section $500,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, and 2000.';
  (4) in section 4212(a), by striking out `1989, 1990, 1991, and 1992'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999,
  and 2000';
  (5) in section 4213(e), by amending paragraphs (1) and (2) to read as
  follows:
  `(1) For the planning and design, construction, and renovation of,
  or purchase or lease of land or facilities for, emergency shelters and
  half-way houses to provide emergency care for Indian youth, there are
  authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such
  sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996,
  1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
  `(2) For the staffing and operation of emergency shelters and half-way
  houses, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for fiscal year
  1993 and $7,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, and 2000.';
  (6) in section 4216(a)(1)--
  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking `and' at the end;
  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end and inserting
  `, and'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(C) the Makah Indian Tribe of Washington for the investigation and control
  of illegal narcotic traffic on the Makah Indian Reservation arising from
  its proximity to international waters.';
  (7) by amending section 4216(a)(3) to read as follows:
  `(3) For the purpose of providing the assistance required by this subsection,
  there are authorized to be appropriated--
  `(A) $500,000 under paragraph (1)(A) for fiscal year 1993 and such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, and 2000,
  `(B) $500,000 under paragraph (1)(B) for fiscal year 1993 and such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, and 2000, and
  `(C) $500,000 under paragraph (1)(C) for fiscal year 1993 and such sums
  as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997,
  1998, 1999, and 2000.';
  (8) by amending section 4216(b) to read as follows:
  `(b)(1) MARIJUANA ERADICATION AND INTERDICTION- The Secretary of the
  Interior, in cooperation with appropriate Federal, tribal, and State and
  local law enforcement agencies, shall establish and implement a program for
  the eradication of marijuana cultivation, and interdiction, investigation,
  and control of illegal narcotics trafficking within Indian country as
  defined in section 1152 of title 18, United States Code. The Secretary shall
  establish a priority for the use of funds appropriated under paragraph
  (2) for those Indian reservations where the scope of the problem is most
  critical, and such funds shall be available for contracting by Indian tribes
  pursuant to the Indian Self-Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450f et seq.).
  `(2) For the purpose of establishing the program required by paragraph
  (1), there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fiscal year
  1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994,
  1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.';
  (9) in section 4218, by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b) AUTHORIZATION- For the purposes of providing the training required
  by subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal
  years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000.'; and
  (10) in section 4220(b), by amending paragraphs (1) and (2) to read
  as follows:
  `(1) For the purpose of constructing or renovating juvenile detention centers
  as provided in subsection (a), there are authorized to be appropriated
  $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1993 and such sums as may be necessary for
  each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.
  `(2) For the purpose of staffing and operating juvenile detention centers,
  there are authorized to be appropriated $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1993
  and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995,
  1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, and 2000.'.
TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS
SEC. 801. REPORTS.
  Section 801 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1671) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended to read as follows:
`REPORTS
  `SEC. 801. The President shall, at the time the budget is submitted under
  section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, for each fiscal year transmit
  to the Congress a report containing--
  `(1) a report on the progress made in meeting the objectives of this Act,
  including a review of programs established or assisted pursuant to this Act
  and an assessment and recommendations of additional programs or additional
  assistance necessary to, at a minimum, provide health services to Indians,
  and ensure a health status for Indians, which are at a parity with the health
  services available to and the health status of, the general population;
  `(2) a report on whether, and to what extent, new national health care
  programs, benefits, initiatives, or financing systems have had an impact
  on the purposes of this Act and any steps that the Secretary may have
  taken to consult with Indian tribes to address such impact;
  `(3) a report on the use of health services by Indians--
  `(A) on a national and area or other relevant geographical basis;
  `(B) by gender and age;
  `(C) by source of payment and type of service; and
  `(D) comparing such rates of use with rates of use among comparable
  non-Indian populations.
  `(4) a separate statement which specifies the amount of funds requested
  to carry out the provisions of section 201;
  `(5) a separate statement of the total amount obligated or expended in
  the most recently completed fiscal year to achieve each of the objectives
  described in section 814, relating to infant and maternal mortality and
  fetal alcohol syndrome;
  `(6) the reports required by sections 3(d), 108(n), 203(b), 209(j), 301(c),
  302(g), 305(a)(3), 403, 708(e), and 817(a), and 822(f);
  `(7) for fiscal year 1995, the report required by sections 702(c)(3)
  and 713(b);
  `(8) for fiscal year 1997, the interim report required by section 307(h)(1);
  and
  `(9) for fiscal year 1999, the reports required by sections 307(h)(2),
  512(b), 711(f), and 821(g).'.
SEC. 802. REGULATIONS.
  Section 802 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1672) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended to read as follows:
`REGULATIONS
  `SEC. 802. Prior to any revision of or amendment to rules or regulations
  promulgated pursuant to this Act, the Secretary shall consult with Indian
  tribes and appropriate national or regional Indian organizations and shall
  publish any proposed revision or amendment in the Federal Register not less
  than sixty days prior to the effective date of such revision or amendment
  in order to provide adequate notice to, and receive comments from, other
  interested parties.'.
SEC. 803. EXTENSION OF TREATMENT OF ARIZONA AS A CONTRACT HEALTH SERVICE
DELIVERY AREA.
  Section 808 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1678) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended by striking out `1991' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `2000'.
SEC. 804. INFANT AND MATERNAL MORTALITY; FETAL ALCOHOL SYNDROME.
  Section 814 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1680d) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended--
  (1) by striking out `(a)'; and
  (2) by striking out subsection (b).
SEC. 805. REALLOCATION OF BASE RESOURCES.
  Section 817(a) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1680(g)) (as redesignated by section
  701(b) of this Act) is amended by striking out `Secretary has submitted
  to the Congress' and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `Secretary
  has submitted to the President, for inclusion in the report required to
  be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,'.
SEC. 806. CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE TREATMENT PROGRAMS.
  Section 819 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1680i) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended to read as follows:
`CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE TREATMENT PROGRAMS
  `SEC. 819. (a) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior shall,
  for each fiscal year through fiscal year 1995, continue the demonstration
  programs involving treatment for child sexual abuse provided through the
  Hopi Tribe and the Assiniboine and Sioux Tribes of the Fort Peck Reservation.
  `(b) Beginning October 1, 1995, the Secretary and the Secretary of the
  Interior may establish, in any service area, demonstration programs
  involving treatment for child sexual abuse, except that the Secretaries
  may not establish a greater number of such programs in one service area
  than in any other service area until there is an equal number of such
  programs established with respect to all service areas  from which the
  Secretary receives qualified applications during the application period
  (as determined by the Secretary).'.
SEC. 807. TRIBAL LEASING.
  Section 820 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1680j) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended to read as follows:
`TRIBAL LEASING
  `SEC. 820. Indian tribes providing health care services pursuant to a
  contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act may lease
  permanent structures for the purpose of providing such health care services
  without obtaining advance approval in appropriation Acts.'.
SEC. 808. EXTENSION OF TERMINATION DATE OF CERTAIN DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS;
JOINT VENTURE PROJECTS.
  Section 818 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1680h) (as redesignated by section 701(b)
  of this Act) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (d)--
  (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the end the
  following: `, or, in the case of a demonstration project for which a grant
  is made after September 30, 1990, three years after the date on which such
  grant is made'; and
  (B) in paragraph (2), by striking `1994' and inserting `1996'; and
  (2) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
  `(e)(1) The Secretary, acting through the Service, shall make arrangements
  with Indian tribes to establish joint venture demonstration projects under
  which an Indian tribe shall expend tribal, private, or other available
  nontribal funds, for the acquisition or construction of a health facility
  for a minimum of 20 years, under a no-cost lease, in exchange for agreement
  by the Service to provide the equipment, supplies, and staffing for the
  operation and maintenance of such a health facility. A tribe may utilize
  tribal funds, private sector, or other available resources, including loan
  guarantees, to fulfill its commitment under this subsection.
  `(2) The Secretary shall make such an arrangement with an Indian tribe
  only if the Secretary first determines that the Indian tribe has the
  administrative and financial capabilities necessary to complete the timely
  acquisition or construction of the health facility described in paragraph
  (1).
  `(3) An Indian tribe or tribal organization that has entered into a written
  agreement with the Secretary under this subsection, and that breaches or
  terminates without cause such agreement, shall be liable to the United
  States for the amount that has been paid to the tribe, or paid to a third
  party on the tribe's behalf, under the agreement. The Secretary has the
  right to recover tangible property (including supplies), and equipment,
  less depreciation, and any funds expended for operations and maintenance
  under this section. The preceding sentence does not apply to any funds
  expended for the delivery of health care services, or for personnel or
  staffing, shall be recoverable.'.
SEC. 809. HOME AND COMMUNITY BASED CARE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
  Title VIII of the Act (as redesignated by subsections (a) and (b) of section
  701 of this Act) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`HOME- AND COMMUNITY-BASED CARE DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  `SEC. 821. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service, is authorized
  to enter into contracts with, or make grants to, Indian tribes or tribal
  organizations providing health care services pursuant to a contract entered
  into under the Indian Self-Determination Act, to establish demonstration
  projects for the delivery of home- and community-based services to
  functionally disabled Indians.
  `(b)(1) Funds provided for a demonstration project under this section
  shall be used only for the delivery of home- and community-based services
  (including transportation services) to functionally disabled Indians.
  `(2) Such funds may not be used--
  `(A) to make cash payments to functionally disabled Indians;
  `(B) to provide room and board for functionally disabled Indians;
  `(C) for the construction or renovation of facilities or the purchase of
  medical equipment; or
  `(D) for the provision of nursing facility services.
  `(c) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this
  section, the Secretary, after consultation with Indian tribes and tribal
  organizations, shall develop and issue criteria for the approval of
  applications submitted under this section. Such criteria shall ensure
  that demonstration projects established under this section promote the
  development of the capacity of tribes and tribal organizations to deliver,
  or arrange for the delivery of, high quality, culturally appropriate home-
  and community-based services to functionally disabled Indians;
  `(d) The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as
  may be necessary to enable applicants to comply with the provisions of
  this section.
  `(e) At the discretion of the tribe or tribal organization, services
  provided under a demonstration project established under this section
  may be provided (on a cost basis) to persons otherwise ineligible for the
  health care benefits of the Service.
  `(f) The Secretary shall establish not more than 24 demonstration projects
  under this section. The Secretary may not establish a greater number of
  demonstration projects under this section in one service area than in any
  other service area until there is an equal number of such demonstration
  projects established with respect to all service areas from which the
  Secretary receives applications during the application period (as determined
  by the Secretary) which meet the criteria issued pursuant to subsection (c).
  `(g) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in the
  report which is required to be submitted under section 801 for fiscal
  year 1999, a report on the findings and conclusions derived from the
  demonstration projects conducted under this section, together with
  legislative recommendations.
  `(h) For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
  `(1) The term `home- and community-based services' means one or more of
  the following:
  `(A) Homemaker/home health aide services.
  `(B) Chore services.
  `(C) Personal care services.
  `(D) Nursing care services provided outside of a nursing facility by,
  or under the supervision of, a registered nurse.
  `(E) Respite care.
  `(F) Training for family members in managing a functionally disabled
  individual.
  `(G) Adult day care.
  `(H) Such other home- and community-based services as the Secretary may
  approve.
  `(2) The term `functionally disabled' means an individual who is determined
  to require home- and community-based services based on an assessment
  that uses criteria (including, at the discretion of the tribe or tribal
  organization, activities of daily living) developed by the tribe or tribal
  organization.
  `(i) There are authorized to be appropriated for each of the fiscal years
  1993, 1994, 1995, 1996, and 1997 such sums as may be necessary to carry
  out this section. Such sums shall remain available until expended.'.
SEC. 810. SHARED SERVICES DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
  Title VIII of the Act (as redesignated by subsections (a) and (b) of
  section 701 and amended by section 809 of this Act) is amended by adding
  at the end the following new section:
`SHARED SERVICES DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  `SEC. 822. (a) The Secretary, acting through the Service and notwithstanding
  any other provision of law, is authorized to enter into contracts with Indian
  tribes or tribal organizations to establish not more than 6 shared services
  demonstration projects for the delivery of long-term care to Indians. Such
  projects shall provide for the sharing of staff or other services between
  a Service facility and a nursing facility owned and operated (directly or
  by contract) by such Indian tribe or tribal organization.
  `(b) A contract entered into pursuant to subsection (a)--
  `(1) may, at the request of the Indian tribe or tribal organization,
  delegate to such tribe or tribal organization such powers of supervision
  and control over Service employees as the Secretary deems necessary to
  carry out the purposes of this section;
  `(2) shall provide that expenses (including salaries) relating to services
  that are shared between the Service facility and the tribal facility be
  allocated proportionately between the Service and the tribe or tribal
  organization; and
  `(3) may authorize such tribe or tribal organization to construct, renovate,
  or expand a nursing facility (including the construction of a facility
  attached to a Service facility), except that no funds appropriated for
  the Service shall be obligated or expended for such purpose.
  `(c) To be eligible for a contract under this section, a tribe or tribal
  organization, shall, as of the date of the enactment of this Act--
  `(1) own and operate (directly or by contract) a nursing facility;
  `(2) have entered into an agreement with a consultant to develop a plan
  for meeting the long-term needs of the tribe or tribal organization; or
  `(3) have adopted a tribal resolution providing for the construction of
  a nursing facility.
  `(d) Any nursing facility for which a contract is entered into under this
  section shall meet the requirements for nursing facilities under section
  1919 of the Social Security Act.
  `(e) The Secretary shall provide such technical and other assistance as
  may be necessary to enable applicants to comply with the provisions of
  this section.
  `(f) The Secretary shall submit to the President, for inclusion in each
  report required to be transmitted to the Congress under section 801,
  a report on the findings and conclusions derived from the demonstration
  projects conducted under this section.'.
SEC. 811. RESULTS OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS.
  Title VIII of the Act (as redesignated by subsections (a) and (b) of
  section 701 and amended by section 810 of this Act) is amended by adding
  at the end the following new section:
`RESULTS OF DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS
  `SEC. 823. The Secretary shall provide for the dissemination to Indian
  tribes of the findings and results of demonstration projects conducted
  under this Act.'.
SEC. 812. PRIORITY FOR INDIAN RESERVATIONS.
  Title VIII of the Act (as redesignated by subsections (a) and (b) of
  section 701 and amended by section 811 of this Act) is amended by adding
  at the end the following new section:
`PRIORITY FOR INDIAN RESERVATIONS
  `SEC. 824. (a) Beginning on the date of the enactment of this section,
  the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Service shall, in all matters
  involving the reorganization or development of Service facilities, or in
  the establishment of related employment projects to address unemployment
  conditions in economically depressed areas, give priority to locating such
  facilities and projects on Indian lands if requested by the Indian tribe
  with jurisdiction over such lands.
  `(b) For purposes of this section, the term `Indian lands' means--
  `(1) all lands within the limits of any Indian reservation; and
  `(2) any lands title which is held in trust by the United States for the
  benefit of any Indian tribe or individual Indian, or held by any Indian tribe
  or individual Indian subject to restriction by the United States against
  alienation and over which an Indian tribe exercises governmental power.'.
SEC. 813. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION- Title VIII of the Act (as redesignated by subsections
  (a) and (b) of section 701 and amended by section 812 of this Act) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
  `SEC. 825. Except as provided in section 821, there are authorized to be
  appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each fiscal year through
  fiscal year 2000 to carry out this title.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 807 of the Act (25 U.S.C. 1677)
  (as redesignated by subsections (a) and (b) of section 701 of this Act)
  is amended by striking out subsection (f).
SEC. 814. TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE PROJECT.
  The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f
  note) is amended--
  (1) in section 301, by inserting after `Interior' the following: `and the
  Secretary of Health and Human Services (hereafter in this title referred
  to as the `Secretaries') each';
  (2) in sections 302, 303, 304, and 305, by striking `Secretary' each place
  it appears and inserting in lieu thereof `Secretaries';
  (3) in section 303(a)(1), by inserting after `Interior' the following:
  `and the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human
  Services'; and
  (4) by adding after section 309 the following new section:
  `SEC. 310. For the purposes of providing one year planning and negotiations
  grants to the Indian tribes identified by section 302, with respect to the
  programs, activities, functions, or services of the Indian Health Service,
  there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
  carry out such purposes. Upon completion of an authorized planning activity
  or a comparable planning activity by a tribe, the Secretary is authorized
  to negotiate and implement a Compact of Self-Governance and Annual Funding
  Agreement with such tribe.'.
TITLE IX--TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS
SEC. 901. REPEAL OF EXPIRED REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
  The Act is amended--
  (1) in section 116, by striking out subsection (d);
  (2) in section 204(a)--
  (A) by striking out paragraph (2);
  (B) by striking out `(a)(1)' and inserting in lieu thereof `(a)';
  (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs (1) and (2),
  respectively; and
  (D) in paragraph (2) (as redesignated by subparagraph (C)), by striking out
  `subparagraph (A)' and inserting in lieu thereof `paragraph (1)';
  (3) in section 602, by striking out subsection (a)(3); and
  (4) by striking out section 803 (as redesignated by section 701(b) of
  this Act).
SEC. 902. OTHER TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
  The Act is amended--
  (1) in section 4(c), by striking out `sections 102, 103, and 201(c)(5),'
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `sections 102 and 103,';
  (2) in title I--
  (A) in section 102(b)(1), by striking `: Provided, That the' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `. The';
  (B) in section 105(c), by striking out `Department of Health, Education,
  and Welfare' and inserting in lieu thereof `Department of Health and
  Human Services';
  (C) in section 108(d)(1)(A), by striking out `Indian Health' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `Indian health'; and
  (D) in section 108(i), by striking out `Service manpower programs' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `health professional programs of the Service'.
  (3) in title II--
  (A) by striking out `SEC. 209. MENTAL HEALTH PREVENTION AND TREATMENT
  SERVICES.' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`MENTAL HEALTH PREVENTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES
  `SEC. 209.'; and
  (B) in section 209, by redesignating subsections (c) through (l) as
  subsections (b) through (k), respectively;
  (4) in title III--
  (A) by striking out `SEC. 307. INDIAN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION
  PROJECT.' and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
`INDIAN HEALTH CARE DELIVERY DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
  `SEC. 307.'; and
  (B) in section 301(d) (as redesignated by section 301(2) of this Act),
  by striking out `sections 102 and 103(b)' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `section 102';
  (5) in title V--
  (A) by striking out `SEC. 409. FACILITIES RENOVATION.' and inserting in
  lieu thereof the following:
`FACILITIES RENOVATION
  `SEC. 509.'; and
  (B) by striking out `SEC. 511. URBAN HEALTH PROGRAMS BRANCH.' and inserting
  in lieu thereof the following:
`URBAN HEALTH PROGRAMS BRANCH
  `SEC. 510.';
  (6) in section 601(c)(3)(D), by striking out `(25 U.S.C. 2005, et seq.)' and
  inserting in lieu thereof `(42 U.S.C. 2005 et seq.)';
  (7) in section 601(d)(1)(C), by striking out `appropriate' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `appropriated';
  (8) in section 813(b)(2)(A) (as redesignated by section 701(b) of this
  Act), by striking out `section 402(c)' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `section 402(a)'; and
  (9) by amending the heading for section 816 (as redesignated by section
  701(b)) to read as follows:
`INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE AND DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HEALTH FACILITIES
AND SERVICES SHARING'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.