 
--S.248--
S.248
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain segments of the
Niobrara River in Nebraska and a segment of the Missouri River in Nebraska
and South Dakota as components of the wild and scenic rivers system, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Niobrara Scenic River Designation Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. DESIGNATION OF THE RIVER.
 Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is
 amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
 `( ) NIOBRARA, NEBRASKA- (A) The 40-mile segment from Borman Bridge
 southeast of Valentine downstream to its confluence with Chimney Creek and
 the 30-mile segment from the river's confluence with Rock Creek downstream to
 the State Highway 137 bridge, both segments to be classified as scenic and
 administered by the Secretary of the Interior. That portion of the 40-mile
 segment designated by this subparagraph located within the Fort Niobrara
 National Wildlife Refuge shall continue to be managed by the Secretary
 through the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
 `(B) The 25-mile segment from the western boundary of Knox County to
 its confluence with the Missouri River, including that segment of the
 Verdigre Creek from the north municipal boundary of Verdigre, Nebraska,
 to its confluence with the Niobrara, to be administered by the Secretary
 of the Interior as a recreational river.
 `After consultation with State and local governments and the interested
 public, the Secretary shall take such action as is required under subsection
 (b) of this section.
 `( ) MISSOURI RIVER, NEBRASKA AND SOUTH DAKOTA- The 39-mile segment from the
 headwaters of Lewis and Clark Lake to the Ft. Randall Dam, to be administered
 by the Secretary of the Interior as a recreational river.'.
SEC. 3. STUDY OF 6-MILE SEGMENT.
 (a) STUDY- Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a))
 is amended by adding the following at the end:
 `( ) NIOBRARA, NEBRASKA- The 6-mile segment of the river from its confluence
 with Chimney Creek to its confluence with Rock Creek.'.
 (b) WATER RESOURCES PROJECT- If, within 5 years after the date of enactment
 of this Act, funds are not authorized and appropriated for the construction
 of a water resources project on the 6-mile segment of the Niobrara River
 from its confluence with Chimney Creek to its confluence with Rock Creek, at
 the expiration of such 5-year period the 6-mile segment shall be designated
 as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System by operation
 of law, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior in accordance
 with sections 4 and 5 of this Act and the applicable provisions of the Wild
 and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271-1287). The Secretary of the Interior
 shall publish notification to that effect in the Federal Register.
SEC. 4. LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN ACQUISITION.
 (a) LIMITATIONS- In the case of the 40-mile and 30-mile segments of the
 Niobrara River described in the amendment to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act
 made by section 2 of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall not,
 without the consent of the owner, acquire for purposes of such segment land
 or interests in land in more than 5 percent of the area within the boundaries
 of such segments, and the Secretary shall not acquire, without the consent of
 the owner, fee ownership of more than 2 percent of such area. The limitations
 on land acquisition contained in this subsection shall be in addition to,
 and not in lieu of, the limitations on acquisition contained in section 6
 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
 (b) FINDING; EXCEPTION- The 5 percent limitation and the 2 percent limitation
 contained in subsection (a) of this section shall not apply if the Secretary
 of the Interior finds, after notice and opportunity for public comment, that
 State or local governments are not, through statute, regulation, ordinance,
 or otherwise, adequately protecting the values for which the segment concerned
 is designated as a component of the national wild and scenic rivers system.
SEC. 5. NIOBRARA SCENIC RIVER ADVISORY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established the Niobrara Scenic
 River Advisory Commission (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
 `Commission'). The Commission shall advise the Secretary of the Interior
 (hereinafter referred to as the `Secretary') on matters pertaining to the
 development of a management plan, and the management and operation of the
 40-mile and 30-mile segments of the Niobrara River designated by section
 2 of this Act which lie outside the boundary of the Fort Niobrara National
 Wildlife Refuge and that segment of the Niobrara River from its confluence
 with Chimney Creek to its confluence with Rock Creek.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Commission shall consist of 11 members appointed by
 the Secretary--
 (1) 3 of whom shall be owners of farm or ranch property within the upper
 portion of the designated river corridor between the Borman Bridge and
 the Meadville;
 (2) 3 of whom shall be owners of farm or ranch property within the lower
 portion of the designated river corridor between the Meadville Bridge and
 the bridge on Highway 137;
 (3) 1 of whom shall be a canoe outfitter who operates within the river
 corridors;
 (4) 1 of whom shall be chosen from a list submitted by the Governor of
 Nebraska;
 (5) 2 of whom shall be representatives of the affected county governments
 or natural resources districts; and
 (6) 1 of whom shall be a representative of a conservation organization who
 shall have knowledge and experience in river conservation.
 (c) TERMS- Members shall be appointed to the Commission for a term of
 3 years. A member may serve after the expiration of his term until his
 successor has taken office.
 (d) CHAIRPERSON; VACANCIES- The Secretary shall designate 1 of the members of
 the Commission, who is a permanent resident of Brown, Cherry, Keya Paha, or
 Rock Counties, to serve as Chairperson. Vacancies on the Commission shall be
 filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made. Members
 of the Commission shall serve without compensation, but the Secretary is
 authorized to pay expenses reasonably incurred by the Commission in carrying
 out its responsibilities under this Act on vouchers signed by the Chairperson.
 (e) TERMINATION- The Commission shall cease to exist 10 years from the date
 of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 6. MISSOURI RIVER PROVISIONS.
 (a) ADMINISTRATION- The administration of the Missouri River segment
 designated in section 2 of this Act shall be in consultation with a
 recreational river advisory group to be established by the Secretary. Such
 group shall include in its membership representatives of the affected States
 and political subdivisions thereof, affected Federal agencies, organized
 private groups, and such individuals as the Secretary deems desirable.
 (b) BRIDGES- The designation of the Missouri River segment by the amendment
 made by section 2 of this Act shall not place any additional requirements
 on the placement of bridges other than those contained in section 303 of
 title 49, United States Code.
 (c) EROSION CONTROL- Within the Missouri River segment designated by the
 amendment made by section 2 of this Act, the Secretary shall permit the use
 of erosion control techniques, including the use of rocks from the area
 for streambank stabilization purposes, subject to such conditions as the
 Secretary may prescribe, in consultation with the advisory group described
 in subsection (a) of this section, to protect the resource values for which
 such river segment was designated.
SEC. 7. NATIONAL RECREATION AREA STUDY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director
 of the National Park Service, shall undertake and complete a study, within 18
 months after the date of enactment of this section, regarding the feasibility
 and suitability of the designation of lands in Knox County and Boyd County,
 Nebraska, generally adjacent to the recreational river segments designated by
 the amendments made by section 2 of this Act and adjacent to the Lewis and
 Clark Reservoir, as a national recreation area. The Secretary may provide
 grants and technical assistance to the State of Nebraska, the Santee Sioux
 Indian Tribal Council, and the political subdivisions having jurisdiction
 over lands in these 2 counties to assist the Secretary in carrying out such
 study. The study under this section shall be prepared in consultation with
 the Santee Sioux Tribe, affected political subdivisions, and relevant State
 agencies. The study shall include as a minimum each of the following:
 (1) A comprehensive evaluation of the public recreational opportunities and
 the flood plain management options which are available with respect to the
 river and creek corridors involved.
 (2) An evaluation of the natural, historical, paleontological, and
 recreational resources and values of such corridors.
 (3) Recommendations for possible land acquisition within the corridor which
 are deemed necessary for the purpose of resource protection, scenic protection
 and integrity, recreational activities, or management and administration
 of the corridor areas.
 (4) Alternative cooperative management proposals for the administration
 and development of the corridor areas.
 (5) An analysis of the number of visitors and types of public use within
 the corridor areas that can be accommodated in accordance with the full
 protection of its resources.
 (6) An analysis of the facilities deemed necessary to accommodate and provide
 access for such recreational uses by visitors, including the location and
 estimated costs of such facilities.
 (b) SUBMISSION OF REPORT- The results of such study shall be transmitted to
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
SEC. 8. STUDY OF FEASIBILITY AND SUITABILITY OF ESTABLISHING NIOBRARA-BUFFALO
PRAIRIE NATIONAL PARK.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior shall undertake and complete a
 study of the feasibility and suitability of establishing a national park in
 the State of Nebraska to be known as the Niobrara-Buffalo Prairie National
 Park within 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (b) AREA TO BE STUDIED- The areas studied under this section shall
 include the area generally depicted on the map entitled `Boundary Map,
 Proposed Niobrara-Buffalo Prairie National Park', numbered NBP-80,000,
 and dated March 1990. The study area shall not include any lands within
 the boundaries of the Fort Niobrara National Wildlife Refuge.
 (c) RESOURCES- In conducting the study under this section, the Secretary
 shall conduct an assessment of the natural, cultural, historic, scenic,
 and recreational resources of such areas studied to determine whether they
 are of such significance as to merit inclusion in the National Park System.
 (d) STUDY REGARDING MANAGEMENT- In conducting the study under this section,
 the Secretary shall study the feasibility of managing the area by various
 methods, in consultation with appropriate Federal agencies, the Nature
 Conservancy, and the Nebraska Game and Parks Commission.
 (e) SUBMISSION OF REPORT- The results of the study shall be submitted to the
 Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives
 and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
SEC. 9. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out the provisions of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.