 
--S.2572--
S.2572
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize an exchange of lands in the States of Arkansas and Idaho.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Arkansas-Idaho Land Exchange Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  (1) the Potlatch Corporation has offered to the United States Government an
  exchange of lands under which Potlatch would receive approximately 17,625
  acres of scattered tracts of Federal lands in the State of Idaho in return
  for conveying to the United States lands owned by Potlatch consisting of
  approximately 40,922 acres of undisturbed bottomland hardwood lands in the
  State of Arkansas and approximately 1,170 acres of lands with important
  recreational and fisheries values in the State of Idaho;
  (2) the lands in Arkansas that Potlatch has offered to convey to the United
  States are surrounded by Federal and State lands on the Cache and White
  Rivers which are designated as a `Wetland of International Importance'
  under the Convention on Wetlands of International Importance (commonly
  referred to as the `Ramsar Convention'), one of only 10 areas in the United
  States so designated;
  (3) acquisition of these lands by the United States will remove the lands
  from sustained timber production and other development in the heart of
  this critical wetland ecosystem;
  (4) the lands Potlatch has offered to convey to the United States will
  qualify for inclusion as a Wetland of International Importance under the
  Ramsar Convention;
  (5) the lands Potlatch has offered to convey to the United States are
  outstanding fish and wildlife habitat and should continue to be made
  available for activities such as public hunting, fishing, trapping, nature
  observation, enjoyment, and education;
  (6) the lands the United States would convey to Potlatch do not contain
  comparable fish, wildlife, or wetland values;
  (7) appraisals of all lands to be conveyed in the exchange have been
  completed; and
  (8) the United States and Potlatch have agreed to the values and boundaries
  of all lands to be conveyed in the exchange and concur that the lands to
  be conveyed by Potlatch and the lands to be conveyed by the United States
  are of equal value.
  (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to authorize and require the
  Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture to participate in an exchange of
  lands that will provide environmental and economic benefits to the States
  of Arkansas and Idaho and to the Nation.
SEC. 3. EXCHANGE.
  (a) INTER-AGENCY LAND TRANSFERS-
  (1) TRANSFERS BETWEEN SECRETARY AND SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE-
  (A) TRANSFER TO SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE- Notwithstanding the provisions
  of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
  seq.), not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this
  Act, the Secretary shall transfer to the jurisdiction of the Secretary
  of Agriculture for inclusion in the National Forest System approximately
  9,114 acres of public lands in the State of Idaho, as identified upon a
  map entitled `Arkansas-Idaho Exchange--Idaho Lands', dated July 1992 and
  available for inspection in appropriate offices of the Secretary.
  (B) TRANSFER TO SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE- Subsequent to the exchange
  required by subsection (b), the Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary
  of Agriculture for inclusion in the National Forest System approximately
  891 acres of public lands in the State of Idaho identified for postexchange
  transfer upon the map referenced in subparagraph (A).
  (2) TRANSFER TO SECRETARY- Not later than 30 days after the date of
  the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall transfer
  to the Secretary for conveyance to Potlatch pursuant to subsection (b),
  approximately 7,979 acres of lands within the National Forest System in the
  State of Idaho, as identified upon the map referenced in subparagraph (A).
  (b) EXCHANGE OF LANDS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the provisions of the Federal Land Policy and
  Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), within 60 days after the
  date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to Potlatch,
  in accordance with the provisions of the National Wildlife Refuge System
  Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and subject to paragraph
  (2) and any valid existing rights, approximately 17,625 acres of public
  lands in the State of Idaho identified for transfer to Potlatch on the map
  referenced in subsection (a)(1)(A) in exchange for lands owned by Potlatch
  consisting of--
  (A) approximately 40,921 acres in the State of Arkansas, as depicted for
  transfer to the United States upon a map entitled `Arkansas-Idaho Land
  Exchange--Arkansas Lands,' dated July 1992 and available for inspection
  in appropriate offices of the Secretary, and
  (B) approximately 1,170 acres in the State of Idaho, as identified for
  transfer to the United States upon the map referenced in subsection
  (a)(1)(A).
  (2) LIMITATION- The Secretary may not convey any lands to Potlatch under
  this subsection unless title to the lands to be conveyed by Potlatch in
  exchange is in accordance with the Department of Justice standards for
  the preparation of title evidence in land acquisitions by the United States.
  (c) GENERAL PROVISIONS-
  (1) MAPS CONTROLLING- To ensure the management benefits of consolidating
  isolated tracts of lands, any conflict between a number of acres of lands
  referred to in this Act and a depiction of the lands on a map referenced
  in this Act shall be resolved in favor of the map.
  (2) CANCELLATION- Prior to implementation of the exchange required by
  subsection (b), if Potlatch notifies the Secretary in writing that it no
  longer intends to complete the exchange, the lands referenced in subsection
  (a) shall revert to their status as of the day before the date of enactment
  of this Act, and shall be managed in accordance with applicable management
  plans.
  (3) FINAL MAPS- Not later than 6 months after the conclusion of the exchange
  required by subsection (b), the Secretary shall transmit maps accurately
  depicting the lands transferred and conveyed pursuant to this Act and the
  acreages and legal descriptions of such lands to the Committee on Interior
  and Insular Affairs and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries
  of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural
  Resources and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.
  (4) WITHDRAWAL- Subject to valid existing rights, the lands depicted for
  conveyance to Potlatch on the map referenced in subsection (a)(1)(A) are
  withdrawn from all forms of entry and appropriation under the public land
  laws (including the mining laws) and from operation of the mineral leasing
  and geothermal leasing laws effective upon the date of the enactment of
  this Act. Such withdrawal shall terminate on the date of completion of the
  exchange required by subsection (b) or on the date of any notification by
  Potlatch of a decision not to complete the exchange pursuant to paragraph
  (2).
  (5) POWER SITE RESERVATIONS- The following Executive Orders shall have no
  effect insofar as they involve the following described lands:
  (A) The Executive order dated July 2, 1910, which established Powersite
  Reserve No. 91, with respect to those lands at Boise Meridian, T. 45 N.,
  R. 4 E., Sec. 18, SW 1/4 NE 1/4 , comprising approximately 40 acres.
  (B) The Executive order dated July 2, 1910, which established Powersite
  Reserve No. 106, with respect to those lands at Boise Meridian, T. 32 N.,
  R. 5 E., Sec. 14, W 1/2 NE 1/4 NE and SE 1/4 NE 1/4 NE 1/4 , comprising
  approximately 30 acres.
  (C) The Executive order dated August 31, 1917, which established Power
  Reservation No. 654, with respect to those lands at Boise Meridian, T. 48
  N., R. 1 W., Sec. 3, SE 1/4 NE 1/4 , comprising approximately forty acres,
  and T. 46 N., R. 2 W., Sec. 14, lot 1, comprising approximately 28.15 acres.
  (6) INDEMNITY LIST CLASSIFICATION ORDER- Bureau of Land Management Indemnity
  List Classification Orders on public lands to be conveyed to Potlatch as
  required by subsection (b) are hereby removed from such classification.
  (7) CONVEYANCE DOCUMENTS; BEFORE SURVEY- Lands to be conveyed by the United
  States pursuant to subsection (b) on which any boundary is required to be
  surveyed in order to describe remaining public lands shall be conveyed by
  an interim conveyance. An interim conveyance under this paragraph shall
  convey to and vest in the recipient the same right, title, and interest
  in and to such lands as the recipient would have received in a patent
  issued pursuant to this Act. Upon completion of the survey, the Secretary
  shall issue a patent for such lands. The boundaries of such lands shall
  be those which were defined in and conveyed by the interim conveyance,
  except that the boundaries shall be corrected and redescribed in the patent,
  where necessary, as a result of the survey of such lands.
SEC. 4. USE OF ACQUIRED LANDS.
  (a) National Wildlife Refuge System-
  (1) ADDITION TO THE SYSTEM- The Secretary shall add the lands conveyed
  to the United States in Arkansas pursuant to section 3(b), to the Cache
  River and White River National Wildlife Refuges, as depicted upon the
  map described in such section. The Secretary shall manage such lands in
  accordance with the provisions of the National Wildlife Refuge System
  Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee).
  (2) PLAN PREPARATION- Within 24 months after the completion of the exchange
  required by section 3(b), the Secretary shall prepare and implement
  a single refuge management plan for the Cache River and White River
  Refuges, as expanded by this Act. Such plan shall recognize the important
  public purposes served by nonconsumptive activities, other recreational
  activities, and wildlife-related public use, including hunting, fishing,
  and trapping. The plan shall permit, to the maximum extent practicable,
  such uses to the extent that they are consistent with sound wildlife
  management and in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System
  Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) and other applicable
  law. Any regulations promulgated by the Secretary with respect to fishing,
  hunting, and trapping on those lands shall, to the extent practicable, be
  consistent with State fish and wildlife laws and regulations. In preparing
  the management plan and regulations, the Secretary shall consult with the
  Arkansas Game and Fish Commission.
  (3) INTERIM USE OF LANDS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), during the period
  beginning on the date of the completion of the exchange of lands under
  subsection 3(b) and ending on the first date of the implementation of
  the plan prepared under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall administer all
  lands added to the Cache River and White River National Wildlife Refuges
  pursuant to this Act in accordance with the National Wildlife Refuge System
  Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668d-668ee) and other applicable law.
  (B) HUNTING SEASONS- During the period described in subparagraph (A),
  the duration of any hunting seasons on the lands referred to in subsection
  (a) shall comport with State law.
  (b) Public Lands-
  (1) STATUS- Except as provided in section 3(a)(1)(B), the lands referred to
  in section 3(b)(1)(B) shall be public lands, as defined in section 103(e)
  of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et
  seq.), and shall be managed in accordance with the provisions of such Act.
  (2) GRANDMOTHER MOUNTAIN AREA- Subject to valid existing rights, those
  Federal and non-Federal lands within the Grandmother Mountain Wilderness
  Study Area which are transferred to the jurisdiction of the Forest Service
  pursuant to section 3(b) shall be managed so as to preserve their suitability
  for designation as wilderness, pursuant to section 603(c) of the Federal Land
  Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)), until the Congress
  determines otherwise. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as permitting
  or prohibiting continued use of motorized vehicles on existing routes
  within such area at the level of such use as was permitted on August 1, 1992.
  (3) PLAN AMENDMENTS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS- Within 24 months after
  the completion of the exchange under section 3(b), the Secretary and the
  Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare amendments to applicable resource
  management plans and accompanying documents pursuant to section 202 of the
  Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712), section
  6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974
  (16 U.S.C. 1604), and section 102(2) of the National Environmental Policy
  Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)) for lands in Idaho conveyed to the United
  States pursuant to section 3(b).
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
  For purposes of this Act, the term--
  (1) `Potlatch' means the Potlatch Corporation, chartered in the State
  of Delaware;
  (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
  (3) `lands' means both the surface and subsurface estates whenever both
  estates are owned by the United States or Potlatch, as applicable.
SEC. 6. OUACHITA NATIONAL FOREST BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The boundaries of the Ouachita National Forest are hereby
  adjusted to include those lands generally depicted on the map entitled
  `Proposed Proclamation Boundary Extension, East End of Lake Ouachita'
  and dated August 3, 1992.
  (b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION- The map described in subsection (a) and a
  legal description of the lands depicted on the map shall be on file and
  available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest
  Service, United States Department of Agriculture. Not later than 90 days
  after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall
  prepare a legal description of the lands depicted on the map referred to
  in subsection (a). Such map and legal descriptions shall have the same
  force and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary
  may correct clerical and typographical errors.
  (c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION- For the purpose of section 7 of the Land and
  Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-9), the boundaries of
  the Ouachita National Forest, as adjusted by this Act, shall be considered
  to be the boundaries of such forest as of January 1, 1965.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.