 
--S.2661--
S.2661
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the striking of a medal commemorating the 250th anniversary of
the founding of the American Philosophical Society and the birth of Thomas
Jefferson.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the American Philosophical Society was founded in 1743 as the American
  Philosophical Society held at Philadelphia for Promoting Useful Knowledge;
  (2) the American Philosophical Society was founded by Benjamin Franklin
  and today it is the oldest learned society in the United States and one
  of the principal scholarly and scientific bodies in the world;
  (3) the American Philosophical Society plans to celebrate its 250th
  anniversary and the 250th anniversary of the birth of Thomas Jefferson
  with programs and activities to be held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,
  in April 1993;
  (4) Thomas Jefferson served as the third president of the American
  Philosophical Society at the same time as he served as President of the
  United States; and
  (5) it is proper and desirable to pay tribute to the American Philosophical
  Society and to Thomas Jefferson's devotion to learning as exemplified in
  the principles and programs of the American Philosophical Society.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
  (a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED- In commemoration of the 250th anniversary of
  the founding of the American Philosophical Society and the 250th anniversary
  of the birth of Thomas Jefferson, the President is authorized to present,
  on behalf of the Congress, to a duly authorized representative of the
  American Philosophical Society, a gold medal of appropriate design which
  shall be known as the `Thomas Jefferson Medal'.
  (b) DESIGN AND STRIKING- The Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter referred
  to in this Act as the `Secretary') is authorized and directed to strike
  a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be
  determined by the Secretary in consultation with representatives of the
  American Philosophical Society.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
  (a) AUTHORIZATION AND DIRECTION TO THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY- The
  Secretary is authorized and directed to strike 50 bronze duplicates of the
  gold medal struck pursuant to section 2 and deliver the bronze duplicates
  to the American Philosophical Society.
  (b) PRESENTATION OF DUPLICATE MEDALS- The American Philosophical Society
  shall present the bronze duplicates to persons of scholarly achievement
  in connection with annual ceremonies.
SEC. 4. PAYMENT FOR MEDALS.
  The Secretary shall take such actions as may be necessary to ensure that
  striking the gold medal and the bronze medals under this Act will not
  result in any net cost to the United States Government. Medals shall not
  be struck pursuant to this Act unless the Secretary has received full
  payment for the medals from the American Philosophical Society.
SEC. 5. NATIONAL MEDALS.
  Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
  chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 6. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- No provision of law governing procurement or public contracts
  shall be applicable to the procurement of goods or services necessary for
  carrying out the provisions of this Act.
  (b) EXCEPTION- Nothing in this section shall relieve any person entering
  into a contract under the authority of this Act from complying with any
  law relating to equal employment opportunity.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.