 
--S.2703--
S.2703
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the President to appoint General Thomas C. Richards to the Office
of Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That notwithstanding the provisions
 of section 106 of title 49, United States Code, or any other provision
 of law, the President, acting by and with the advice and consent of
 the Senate, is authorized to appoint General Thomas C. Richards, United
 States Air Force, Retired, to the Office of Administrator of the Federal
 Aviation Administration. General Richards' appointment to, acceptance
 of, and service in that Office shall in no way affect the status, rank,
 and grade which he shall hold as an officer on the retired list of the
 United States Air Force, or any emolument, perquisite, right, privilege,
 or benefit incident to or arising out of any such status, office, rank,
 or grade, except to the extent that subchapter IV of chapter 55 of title
 5, United States Code, affects the amount of retired pay to which he is
 entitled by law during his service as Administrator. So long as he serves
 as Administrator, General Richards shall receive the compensation of that
 Office at the rate which would be applicable if he were not an officer on
 the retired list of the United States Air Force, shall retain the status,
 rank, and grade which he now holds as an officer on the retired list of the
 United States Air Force, shall retain all emoluments, perquisites, rights,
 privileges, and benefits incident to or arising out of such status, office,
 rank, or grade, and shall in addition continue to receive the retired pay
 to which he is entitled by law, subject to the provisions of subchapter IV
 of chapter 55 of title 5, United States Code.
 SEC. 2. In the performance of his duties as Administrator of the Federal
 Aviation Administration, General Richards shall be subject to no supervision,
 control, restriction, or prohibition (military or otherwise) other than
 would be operative with respect to him if he were not an officer on the
 retired list of the United States Air Force.
 SEC. 3. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as approval by the Congress
 of any future appointments of military persons to the Office of Administrator
 of the Federal Aviation Administration.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.