 
--S.272--
S.272
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To provide for a coordinated Federal program to ensure continued United States
leadership in high-performance computing.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `High-Performance Computing Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds the following:
 (1) Advances in computer science and technology are vital to the Nation's
 prosperity, national and economic security, industrial production,
 engineering, and scientific advancement.
 (2) The United States currently leads the world in the development and use of
 high-performance computing for national security, industrial productivity,
 science, and engineering, but that lead is being challenged by foreign
 competitors.
 (3) Further research and development, expanded educational programs, improved
 computer research networks, and more effective technology transfer from
 government to industry are necessary for the United States to reap fully
 the benefits of high-performance computing.
 (4) A high-capacity and high-speed national research and education computer
 network would provide researchers and educators with access to computer
 and information resources and act as a test bed for further research and
 development of high-capacity and high-speed computer networks.
 (5) Several Federal agencies have ongoing high-performance computing
 programs, but improved long-term interagency coordination, cooperation,
 and planning would enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
 (6) A 1991 report entitled `Grand Challenges: High-Performance Computing and
 Communications' by the Office of Science and Technology Policy, outlining a
 research and development strategy for high-performance computing, provides
 a framework for a multiagency high-performance computing program. Such a
 program would provide American researchers and educators with the computer
 and information resources they need, and demonstrate how advanced computers,
 high-capacity and high-speed networks, and electronic data bases can improve
 the national information infrastructure for use by all Americans.
SEC. 3. PURPOSE.
 The purpose of this Act is to help ensure the continued leadership of the
 United States in high-performance computing and its applications by--
 (1) expanding Federal support for research, development, and application
 of high-performance computing in order to--
 (A) establish a high-capacity and high-speed National Research and Education
 Network;
 (B) expand the number of researchers, educators, and students with training in
 high-performance computing and access to high-performance computing resources;
 (C) promote the further development of an information infrastructure of
 data bases, services, access mechanisms, and research facilities available
 for use through the Network;
 (D) stimulate research on software technology;
 (E) promote the more rapid development and wider distribution of computing
 software tools and applications software;
 (F) accelerate the development of computing systems and subsystems;
 (G) provide for the application of high-performance computing to Grand
 Challenges;
 (H) invest in basic research and education, and promote the inclusion of
 high-performance computing into educational institutions at all levels; and
 (I) promote greater collaboration among government, Federal laboratories,
 industry, high-performance computing centers, and universities; and
 (2) improving the interagency planning and coordination of Federal research
 and development on high-performance computing and maximizing the effectiveness
 of the Federal Government's high-performance computing efforts.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act, the term--
 (1) `Director' means the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
 Policy;
 (2) `Grand Challenge' means a fundamental problem in science or engineering,
 with broad economic and scientific impact, whose solution will require the
 application of high-performance computing resources;
 (3) `high-performance computing' means advanced computing, communications,
 and information technologies, including scientific workstations, supercomputer
 systems (including vector supercomputers and large scale parallel systems),
 high-capacity and high-speed networks, special purpose and experimental
 systems, and applications and systems software;
 (4) `Network' means a computer network referred to as the National Research
 and Education Network established under section 102; and
 (5) `Program' means the National High-Performance Computing Program described
 in section 101.
TITLE I--HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING AND THE NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
NETWORK
SEC. 101. NATIONAL HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING PROGRAM.
 (a) NATIONAL HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING PROGRAM- (1) The President shall
 implement a National High-Performance Computing Program, which shall--
 (A)  establish the goals and priorities for Federal high-performance
 computing research, development, networking, and other activities; and
 (B)  provide for interagency coordination of Federal high-performance
 computing research, development, networking, and other activities undertaken
 pursuant to the Program.
 (2) The Program shall--
 (A)  provide for the establishment of policies for management and access
 to the Network;
 (B)  provide for oversight of the operation and evolution of the Network;
 (C)  promote connectivity among computer networks of Federal agencies
 and departments;
 (D)  provide for efforts to increase software availability, productivity,
 capability, portability, and reliability;
 (E)  provide for improved dissemination of Federal agency data and electronic
 information;
 (F)  provide for acceleration of the development of high-performance
 computing systems, subsystems, and associated software;
 (G)  provide for the technical support and research and development of
 high-performance computing software and hardware needed to address Grand
 Challenges;
 (H)  provide for educating and training additional undergraduate and graduate
 students in software engineering, computer science, library and information
 science, and computational science; and
 (I)  provide--
 (i)  for the security requirements, policies, and standards necessary
 to protect Federal research computer networks and information resources
 accessible through Federal research computer networks, including research
 required to establish security standards for high-performance computing
 systems and networks; and
 (ii)  that agencies and departments identified in the annual report submitted
 under paragraph (3)(A) shall define and implement a security plan consistent
 with the Program and with applicable law.
 (3) The Director shall--
 (A) submit to the Congress an annual report, along with the President's
 annual budget request, describing the implementation of the Program;
 (B) provide for interagency coordination of the Program; and
 (C) consult with academic, State, industry, and other appropriate groups
 conducting research on and using high-performance computing.
 (4) The annual report submitted under paragraph (3)(A) shall--
 (A) include a detailed description of the goals and priorities established
 by the President for the Program;
 (B) set forth the relevant programs and activities, for the fiscal year with
 respect to which the budget submission applies, of each Federal agency and
 department, including--
 (i) the Department of Agriculture;
 (ii) the Department of Commerce;
 (iii) the Department of Defense;
 (iv) the Department of Education;
 (v) the Department of Energy;
 (vi) the Department of Health and Human Services;
 (vii) the Department of the Interior;
 (viii) the Environmental Protection Agency;
 (ix) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
 (x) the National Science Foundation; and
 (xi) such other agencies and departments as the President or the Director
 considers appropriate;
 (C) describe the levels of Federal funding for the fiscal year during which
 such report is submitted, and the levels proposed for the fiscal year with
 respect to which the budget submission applies, for specific activities,
 including education, research, hardware and software development, and
 support for the establishment of the Network;
 (D) describe the levels of Federal funding for each agency and department
 participating in the Program for the fiscal year during which such report
 is submitted, and the levels proposed for the fiscal year with respect to
 which the budget submission applies; and
 (E) include an analysis of the progress made toward achieving the goals
 and priorities established for the Program.
 (b) HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING ADVISORY COMMITTEE- The President shall
 establish an advisory committee on high-performance computing consisting
 of non-Federal members, including representatives of the research,
 education, and library communities, network providers, and industry, who are
 specially qualified to provide the Director with advice and information on
 high-performance computing. The recommendations of the advisory committee
 shall be considered in reviewing and revising the Program. The advisory
 committee shall provide the Director with an independent assessment of--
 (1) progress made in implementing the Program;
 (2) the need to revise the Program;
 (3) the balance between the components of the Program;
 (4) whether the research and development undertaken pursuant to the Program
 is helping to maintain United States leadership in computing technology; and
 (5) other issues identified by the Director.
 (c) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET- (1) Each Federal agency and department
 participating in the Program shall, as part of its annual request for
 appropriations to the Office of Management and Budget, submit a report to
 the Office of Management and Budget which--
 (A) identifies each element of its high-performance computing activities
 which contributes directly to the Program or benefits from the Program; and
 (B) states the portion of its request for appropriations that is allocated
 to each such element.
 (2) The Office of Management and Budget shall review each such report in
 light of the goals, priorities, and agency and departmental responsibilities
 set forth in the annual report submitted under subsection (a)(3)(A), and
 shall include, in the President's annual budget estimate, a statement of
 the portion of each appropriate agency's or department's annual budget
 estimate relating to its activities undertaken pursuant to the Program.
SEC. 102. NATIONAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION NETWORK.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- As part of the Program, the National Science Foundation,
 the Department of Defense, the Department of Energy, the Department of
 Commerce, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and other
 agencies participating in the Program shall support the establishment of
 the National Research and Education Network, portions of which shall, to
 the extent technically feasible, be capable of transmitting data at one
 gigabit per second or greater by 1996. The Network shall provide for the
 linkage of research institutions and educational institutions, government,
 and industry in every State.
 (b) ACCESS- Federal agencies and departments shall work with private
 network service providers, State and local agencies, libraries, educational
 institutions and organizations, and others, as appropriate, in order to ensure
 that the researchers, educators, and students have access, as appropriate,
 to the Network. The Network is to provide users with appropriate access
 to high-performance computing systems, electronic information resources,
 other research facilities, and libraries. The Network shall provide access,
 to the extent practicable, to electronic information resources maintained
 by libraries, research facilities, publishers, and affiliated organizations.
 (c) NETWORK CHARACTERISTICS- The Network shall--
 (1) be developed and deployed with the computer, telecommunications, and
 information industries;
 (2) be designed, developed, and operated in collaboration with potential
 users in government, industry, and research institutions and educational
 institutions;
 (3) be designed, developed, and operated in a manner which fosters and
 maintains competition and private sector investment in high-speed data
 networking within the telecommunications industry;
 (4) be designed, developed, and operated in a manner which promotes research
 and development leading to development of commercial data communications
 and telecommunications standards, whose development will encourage the
 establishment of privately operated high-speed commercial networks;
 (5) be designed and operated so as to ensure the continued application
 of laws that provide network and information resources security measures,
 including those that protect copyright and other intellectual property rights,
 and those that control access to data bases and protect national security;
 (6) have accounting mechanisms which allow users or groups of users to
 be charged for their usage of copyrighted materials available over the
 Network and, where appropriate and technically feasible, for their usage
 of the Network;
 (7) ensure the interoperability of Federal and non-Federal computer networks,
 to the extent appropriate, in a way that allows autonomy for each component
 network;
 (8) be developed by purchasing standard commercial transmission and network
 services from vendors whenever feasible, and by contracting for customized
 services when not feasible, in order to minimize Federal investment in
 network hardware;
 (9) support research and development of networking software and hardware; and
 (10) serve as a test bed for further research and development of high-capacity
 and high-speed computing networks and demonstrate how advanced computers,
 high-capacity and high-speed computing networks, and data bases can improve
 the national information infrastructure.
 (d) DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY RESPONSIBILITY- As part of the
 Program, the Department of Defense, through the Defense Advanced Research
 Projects Agency, shall support research and development of advanced fiber
 optics technology, switches, and protocols needed to develop the Network.
 (e) INFORMATION SERVICES- The Director shall assist the President in
 coordinating the activities of appropriate agencies and departments to
 promote the development of information services that could be provided over
 the Network. These services may include the provision of directories of the
 users and services on computer networks, data bases of unclassified Federal
 scientific data, training of users of data bases and computer networks,
 access to commercial information services for users of the Network, and
 technology to support computer-based collaboration that allows researchers
 and educators around the Nation to share information and instrumentation.
 (f) USE OF GRANT FUNDS- All Federal agencies and departments are authorized
 to allow recipients of Federal research grants to use grant moneys to pay
 for computer networking expenses.
 (g) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Within one year after the date of enactment of this
 Act, the Director shall report to the Congress on--
 (1) effective mechanisms for providing operating funds for the maintenance
 and use of the Network, including user fees, industry support, and continued
 Federal investment;
 (2) the future operation and evolution of the Network;
 (3) how commercial information service providers could be charged for access
 to the Network, and how Network users could be charged for such commercial
 information services;
 (4) the technological feasibility of allowing commercial information service
 providers to use the Network and other federally funded research networks;
 (5) how to protect the copyrights of material distributed over the Network;
 and
 (6) appropriate policies to ensure the security of resources available on
 the Network and to protect the privacy of users of networks.
TITLE II--AGENCY ACTIVITIES
SEC. 201. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION ACTIVITIES.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title I--
 (1) the National Science Foundation shall provide computing and networking
 infrastructure support for all science and engineering disciplines, and
 support basic research and human resource development in all aspects of
 high-performance computing and advanced high-speed computer networking;
 (2) to the extent that colleges, universities, and libraries cannot connect
 to the Network with the assistance of the private sector, the National
 Science Foundation shall have primary responsibility for assisting colleges,
 universities, and libraries to connect to the Network;
 (3) the National Science Foundation shall serve as the primary source of
 information on access to and use of the Network; and
 (4) the National Science Foundation shall upgrade the National Science
 Foundation funded network, assist regional networks to upgrade their
 capabilities, and provide other Federal departments and agencies the
 opportunity to connect to the National Science Foundation funded network.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- From sums otherwise authorized to be
 appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated to the National Science
 Foundation for the purposes of the Program $213,000,000 for fiscal year
 1992; $262,000,000  for fiscal year 1993; $305,000,000 for fiscal year 1994;
 $354,000,000 for fiscal year 1995; and $413,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 202. NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION ACTIVITIES.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title I,
 the National Aeronautics and Space Administration shall conduct basic and
 applied research in high-performance computing, particularly in the field
 of computational science, with emphasis on aerospace sciences, earth and
 space sciences, and remote exploration and experimentation.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- From sums otherwise authorized to
 be appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated to the National
 Aeronautics and Space Administration for the purposes of the Program
 $72,000,000 for fiscal year 1992; $107,000,000 for fiscal year 1993;
 $134,000,000 for fiscal year 1994; $151,000,000 for fiscal year 1995;
 and $145,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 203. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY ACTIVITIES.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title I,
 the Secretary of Energy shall--
 (1) perform research and development on, and systems evaluations of,
 high-performance computing and communications systems;
 (2) conduct computational research with emphasis on energy applications;
 (3) support basic research, education, and human resources in computational
 science; and
 (4) provide for networking infrastructure support for energy-related
 mission activities.
 (b) COLLABORATIVE CONSORTIA- In accordance with the Program, the Secretary of
 Energy shall establish High-Performance Computing Research and Development
 Collaborative Consortia by soliciting and selecting proposals. Each
 Collaborative Consortium shall--
 (1) conduct research directed at scientific and technical problems whose
 solutions require the application of high-performance computing and
 communications resources;
 (2) promote the testing and uses of new types of high-performance computing
 and related software and equipment;
 (3) serve as a vehicle for participating vendors of high-performance
 computing systems to test new ideas and technology in a sophisticated
 computing environment; and
 (4) be led by a Department of Energy national laboratory, and include
 participants from Federal agencies and departments, researchers, private
 industry, educational institutions, and others as the Secretary of Energy
 may deem appropriate.
 (c) TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER- The results of research and development carried
 out under this section shall be transferred to the private sector and others
 in accordance with applicable law.
 (d) ANNUAL REPORTS TO CONGRESS- Within one year after the date of enactment
 of this Act and every year thereafter, the Secretary of Energy shall transmit
 to the Congress a report on activities taken to carry out this Act.
 (e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- (1) There are authorized to be
 appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for the purposes of the Program
 $93,000,000 for fiscal year 1992; $110,000,000 for fiscal year 1993;
 $138,000,000 for fiscal year 1994: $157,000,000 for fiscal year 1995;
 and $169,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
 (2) There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy
 for fiscal years 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, and 1996, such funds as may be
 necessary to carry out the activities that are not part of the Program but
 are authorized by this section.
SEC. 204. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE ACTIVITIES.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title I--
 (1) the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall--
 (A) conduct basic and applied measurement research needed to support various
 high-performance computing systems and networks;
 (B) develop and propose standards and guidelines, and develop measurement
 techniques and test methods, for the interoperability of high-performance
 computing systems in networks and for common user interfaces to systems; and
 (C) be responsible for developing benchmark tests and standards for
 high-performance computing systems and software; and
 (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall conduct basic
 and applied research in weather prediction and ocean sciences, particularly
 in development of new forecast models, in computational fluid dynamics,
 and in the incorporation of evolving computer architectures and networks
 into the systems that carry out agency missions.
 (b) HIGH-PERFORMANCE COMPUTING AND NETWORK SECURITY- Pursuant to the Computer
 Security Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-235; 101 Stat. 1724), the National
 Institute of Standards and Technology shall be responsible for developing
 and proposing standards and guidelines needed to assure the cost-effective
 security and privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer systems.
 (c) STUDY OF IMPACT OF FEDERAL PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS- (1) The Secretary
 of Commerce shall conduct a study to--
 (A) evaluate the impact of Federal procurement regulations that require
 that contractors providing software to the Federal Government share the
 rights to proprietary software development tools that the contractors use
 to develop the software; and
 (B) determine whether such regulations discourage development of improved
 software development tools and techniques.
 (2) The Secretary of Commerce shall, within one year after the date of
 enactment of this Act, report to the Congress regarding the results of the
 study conducted under paragraph (1).
 (d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- From sums otherwise authorized to be
 appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated--
 (1) to the National Institute of Standards and Technology for the purposes
 of the Program $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1992; $4,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993; $5,000,000 for fiscal year 1994; $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1995;
 and $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1996; and
 (2) to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for the purposes
 of the Program $2,500,000 for fiscal year 1992; $3,000,000 for fiscal year
 1993; $3,500,000 for fiscal year 1994; $4,000,000 for fiscal year 1995;
 and $4,500,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 205. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY ACTIVITIES.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title I,
 the Environmental Protection Agency shall conduct basic and applied research
 directed toward the advancement and dissemination of computational techniques
 and software tools which form the core of ecosystem, atmospheric chemistry,
 and atmospheric dynamics models.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- From sums otherwise authorized to be
 appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Environmental
 Protection Agency for the purposes of the Program $5,000,000 for fiscal
 year 1992; $5,500,000 for fiscal year 1993; $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1994;
 $6,500,000 for fiscal year 1995; and $7,000,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 206. ROLE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.
 (a) GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES- As part of the Program described in title
 I, the Secretary of Education is authorized to conduct basic and applied
 research in computational research with an emphasis on the coordination of
 activities with libraries, school facilities, and education research groups
 with respect to the advancement and dissemination of computational science
 and the development, evaluation and application of software capabilities.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- From sums otherwise authorized to be
 appropriated, there are authorized to be appropriated to the Department
 of Education for the purposes of this section $1,500,000 for fiscal year
 1992; $1,700,000 for fiscal year 1993; $1,900,000 for fiscal year 1994;
 $2,100,000 for fiscal year 1995; and $2,300,000 for fiscal year 1996.
SEC. 207. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
 (a) NONAPPLICABILITY- Except to the extent the appropriate Federal agency
 or department head determines, the provisions of this Act shall not apply to--
 (1) programs or activities regarding computer systems that process classified
 information; or
 (2) computer systems the function, operation, or use of which are those
 delineated in paragraphs (1) through (5) of section 2315(a) of title 10,
 United States Code.
 (b) ACQUISITION OF PROTOTYPE AND EARLY PRODUCTION MODELS- In accordance with
 Federal contracting law, Federal agencies and departments participating
 in the Program may acquire prototype or early production models of new
 high-performance computing systems and subsystems to stimulate hardware
 and software development. Items of computing equipment acquired under this
 subsection shall be considered research computers for purposes of applicable
 acquisition regulations.
SEC. 208. FOSTERING UNITED STATES COMPETITIVENESS IN HIGH-PERFORMANCE
COMPUTING AND RELATED ACTIVITIES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds the following:
 (1) High-performance computing and associated technologies are critical to
 the United States economy.
 (2) While the United States has led the development of high-performance
 computing, United States industry is facing increasing global competition.
 (3) Despite existing international agreements on fair competition and
 nondiscrimination in government procurements, there is increasing concern
 that such agreements are not being honored, that more aggressive enforcement
 of such agreements is needed, and that additional steps may be required to
 ensure fair global competition, particularly in high-technology fields such
 as high-performance computing and associated technologies.
 (4) It is appropriate for Federal agencies and departments to use the funds
 authorized for the Program in a manner which most effectively fosters the
 maintenance and development of United States leadership in high-performance
 computers and associated technologies in and for the benefit of the United
 States.
 (5) It is appropriate for Federal agencies and departments to use the
 funds authorized for the Program in a manner, consistent with the Trade
 Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), which most effectively
 fosters reciprocal competitive procurement treatment by foreign governments
 for United States high-performance computing and associated technology
 products and suppliers.
 (b) Annual Report-
 (1) REPORT- The Director shall submit an annual report to Congress that
 identifies--
 (A) any grant, contract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research
 and development agreement (as defined under section 12(d)(1) of the
 Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a(d)(1))
 made or entered into by any Federal agency or department for research and
 development under the Program with--
 (i) any company other than a company that is either incorporated or located
 in the United States, and that has majority ownership by individuals who
 are citizens of the United States; or
 (ii) any educational institution or nonprofit institution located outside
 the United States; and
 (B) any procurement exceeding $1,000,000 by any Federal agency or department
 under the Program for--
 (i) unmanufactured articles, materials, or supplies mined or produced
 outside the United States; or
 (ii) manufactured articles, materials, or supplies other than those
 manufactured in the United States substantially all from articles, materials,
 or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States,
under the meaning of title III of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d;
popularly known as the Buy American Act) as amended by the Buy American Act
of 1988.
 (2) CONSOLIDATION OF REPORTS- The report required by this subsection may
 be included with the report required by section 101(a)(3)(A).
 (c) Review of Supercomputer Agreement-
 (1) REPORT- The Under Secretary for Technology Administration of the
 Department of Commerce (in this subsection referred to as the `Under
 Secretary') shall conduct a comprehensive study of the revised `Procedures
 to Introduce Supercomputers' and the accompanying exchange of letters between
 the United States and Japan dated June 15, 1990 (commonly referred to as the
 `Supercomputer Agreement') to determine whether the goals and objectives of
 such Agreement have been met and to analyze the effects of such Agreement
 on United States and Japanese supercomputer manufacturers. Within 180 days
 after the date of enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit
 a report to Congress containing the results of such study.
 (2) CONSULTATION- In conducting the comprehensive study under this subsection,
 the Under Secretary shall consult with approprite Federal agencies and
 departments and with United States manufacturers of supercomputers and
 other appropriate private sector entities.
 (d) APPLICATION OF BUY AMERICAN ACT- This Act does not affect the
 applicability of title III of the Act of March 3, 1933 (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d;
 popularly known as the Buy American Act), as amended by the Buy American
 Act of 1988, to procurements by Federal agencies and departments undertaken
 as a part of the Program.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.