 
--S.2890--
S.2890
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide for the establishment of the Brown v. Board of Education National
Historic Site in the State of Kansas, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--BROWN V. BOARD OF EDUCATION NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE
SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS.
  As used in this title--
  (1) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
  (2) The term `historic site' means the Brown v. Board of Education National
  Historic Site as established in section 103.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds as follows:
  (1) The Supreme Court, in 1954, ruled that the earlier 1896 Supreme Court
  decision in Plessy v. Ferguson that permitted segregation of races in
  elementary schools violated the fourteenth amendment to the United States
  Constitution, which guarantees all citizens equal protection under the law.
  (2) In the 1954 proceedings, Oliver Brown and twelve other plaintiffs
  successfully challenged an 1879 Kansas law that had been patterned after
  the law in question in Plessy v. Ferguson after the Topeka, Kansas, Board
  of Education refused to enroll Mr. Brown's daughter, Linda.
  (3) Sumner Elementary, the all-white school that refused to enroll Linda
  Brown, and Monroe Elementary, the segregated school she was forced to
  attend, have subsequently been designated National Historic Landmarks in
  recognition of their national significance.
  (4) Sumner Elementary, an active school, is administered by the Topeka
  Board of Education; Monroe Elementary, closed in 1975 due to declining
  enrollment, is privately owned and stands vacant.
  (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this title are--
  (1) to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit and enjoyment of
  present and future generations, the places that contributed materially to
  the landmark United States Supreme Court decision that brought an end to
  segregation in public education; and
  (2) to interpret the integral role of the Brown v. Board of Education case
  in the civil rights movement.
  (3) to assist in the preservation and interpretation of related resources
  within the city of Topeka that further the understanding of the civil
  rights movement.
SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CIVIL RIGHTS IN EDUCATION: BROWN V. BOARD OF
EDUCATION NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- There is hereby established as a unit of the National Park
  System the Brown v. Board of Education National Historic Site in the State
  of Kansas.
  (b) DESCRIPTION- The historic site shall consist of the Monroe Elementary
  School site in the city of Topeka, Shawnee County, Kansas, as generally
  depicted on a map entitled `Brown v. Board of Education National Historic
  Site,' numbered Appendix A and dated June 1992. Such map shall be on file
  and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the
  National Park Service.
SEC. 104. PROPERTY ACQUISITION.
  The Secretary is authorized to acquire by donation, exchange, or purchase
  with donated or appropriated funds the real property described in section
  103(b). Any property owned by the States of Kansas or any political
  subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation. The Secretary
  may also acquire by the same methods personal property associated with,
  and appropriate for, the interpretation of the historic site: Provided,
  however, That the Secretary may not acquire such personal property without
  the consent of the owner.
SEC. 105. ADMINISTRATION OF HISTORIC SITE.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall administer the historic site in
  accordance with this title and the laws generally applicable to units of the
  National Park System, including the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535),
  and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666).
  (b) COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS- The Secretary is authorized to enter
  into cooperative agreements with private as well as public agencies,
  organizations, and institutions in furtherance of the purposes of this title.
  (c) GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- Within two complete fiscal years after
  funds are made available, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
  Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House of
  Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the
  United States Senate a general management plan for the historic site.
SEC. 106. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated $1,250,000 to carry out the purposes
  of this title including land acquisition and initial development.
TITLE II--DRY TORTUGAS NATIONAL PARK
SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF DRY TORTUGAS NATIONAL PARK.
  (a) IN GENERAL- In order to preserve and protect for the education,
  inspiration, and enjoyment of present and future generations nationally
  significant natural, historic, scenic, marine, and scientific values in
  South Florida, there is hereby established the Dry Tortugas National Park
  (hereinafter in this title referred to as the `park').
  (b) AREA INCLUDED- The park shall consist of the lands, waters, and interests
  therein generally depicted on the map entitled `Boundary Map, Fort Jefferson
  National Monument', numbered 364-90,001, and dated April 1980 (which is
  the map referenced by section 201 of Public Law 96-287). The map shall be
  on file and available for public inspection in the offices of the National
  Park Service, Department of the Interior.
  (c) ABOLITION OF MONUMENT- The Fort Jefferson National Monument is hereby
  abolished.
SEC. 202. ADMINISTRATION.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary shall administer the park in accordance with
  this title and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of
  the national park system, including the Act entitled `An Act to establish
  a National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved August 25, 1916
  (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2, 3, and 4).
  (b) MANAGEMENT PURPOSES- The park shall be managed for the following
  purposes, among others:
  (1) To protect and interpret a pristine subtropical marine ecosystem,
  including an intact coral reef community.
  (2) To protect populations of fish and wildlife, including (but not
  limited to) loggerhead and green sea turtles, sooty terns, frigate birds,
  and numerous migratory bird species.
  (3) To protect the pristine natural environment of the Dry Tortugas group
  of islands.
  (4) To protect, stabilize, restore, and interpret Fort Jefferson, an
  outstanding example of nineteenth century masonry fortification.
  (5) To preserve and protect submerged cultural resources.
  (6) In a manner consistent with paragraphs (1) through (5), to provide
  opportunities for scientific research.
SEC. 203. LAND ACQUISITION AND TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Within the boundaries of the park the Secretary may acquire
  lands and interests in land by donation or exchange. For the purposes of
  acquiring property by exchange with the State of Florida, the Secretary may,
  notwithstanding any other provision of law, exchange those Federal lands
  which were deleted from the park by the boundary modifications enacted by
  section 201 of the Act of June 28, 1980 (Public Law 96-287), and which
  are directly adjacent to lands owned by the State of Florida outside of
  the park, for lands owned by the State of Florida within the park boundary.
  (b) UNITED STATES COAST GUARD LANDS- When all or any substantial portion
  of lands under the administration of the United States Coast Guard located
  within the park boundaries, including Loggerhead Key, have been determined
  by the United States Coast Guard to be excess to its needs, such lands
  shall be transferred directly to the jurisdiction of the Secretary for
  the purposes of this title. The United States Coast Guard may reserve the
  right in such transfer to maintain and utilize the existing lighthouse
  on Loggerhead Key in a manner consistent with the purposes of the United
  States Coast Guard and the purposes of this title.
  (c) ADMINISTRATIVE SITE- The Secretary is authorized to lease or to acquire,
  by purchase, donation, or exchange, and to operate incidental administrative
  and support facilities in Key West, Florida, for park administration and
  to further the purposes of this title.
SEC. 204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such  sums as may be
  necessary to carry out the purposes of this title. Any funds available for
  the purposes of the monument shall be available for the purposes of the park,
  and authorizations of funds for the monument shall be available for the park.
TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADVISORY COMMITTEES
SEC. 301. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADVISORY COMMITTEES.
  (a) CHARTER- The provisions of section 14(b) of the Federal Advisory
  Committee Act (5 U.S.C. Appendix; 86 Stat. 776) are hereby waived with
  respect to any advisory commission or advisory committee established by
  law in connection with any national park system unit during the period
  such advisory commission or advisory committee is authorized by law.
  (b) MEMBERS- In the case of any advisory commission or advisory committee
  established in connection with any national park system unit, any member
  of such Commission or Committee may serve after the expiration of his or
  her term until a successor is appointed.
SEC. 302. MISSISSIPPI NATIONAL RIVER AND RECREATION AREA.
  Section 703(i) of the Act of November 18, 1988 entitled `An Act to
  provide for the designation and conservation of certain lands in the
  States of Arizona and Idaho, and for other purposes' (Public Law 100-696;
  102 Stat. 4602; 16 U.S.C. 460zz-2) is amended by striking `3 years after
  enactment of this Act' and inserting `3 years after appointment of the
  full membership of the Commission'.
SEC. 303. EXTENSION OF GOLDEN GATE NATIONAL RECREATION AREA ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
  Section 5(g) of the Act approved October 27, 1972 (16 U.S.C. 460bb-4(g)),
  is amended by striking out `twenty years' and inserting in lieu thereof
  `thirty years'.
TITLE IV--NEW RIVER WILD AND SCENIC STUDY
SEC. 401. DESIGNATION OF NEW RIVER AS A STUDY RIVER.
  Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a)) is
  amended by adding the following new paragraph at the end thereof:
  `(   ) NEW RIVER, WEST VIRGINIA AND VIRGINIA- The segment defined by public
  lands commencing at the U.S. Route 460 bridge over the New River in Virginia
  to the maximum summer pool elevation (one thousand four hundred and ten feet
  above mean sea level) of Bluestone Lake in West Virginia; by the Secretary
  of the Interior. Nothing in this Act shall affect or impair the management
  of the Bluestone project or the authority of any department, agency or
  instrumentality of the United States to carry out the project purposes
  of that project as of the date of enactment of this paragraph. The study
  of the river segment identified in this paragraph shall be completed and
  reported on within one year after the date of enactment of this paragraph.'.
TITLE V--BOSTON HARBOR ISLANDS STUDY
SEC. 501. BOSTON HARBOR ISLANDS STUDY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior shall, within 1 year after
  the date of the enactment of this title, conduct a study of the Boston
  Harbor Islands to assess the opportunities for the National Park Service to
  contribute to State, regional, and local efforts to promote the conservation
  of the Boston Harbor Islands and their use and enjoyment by the public. In
  conducting the study, the Secretary shall--
  (1) consult closely with and explore means for expanded cooperation with
  the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Management, the Metropolitan
  District Commission, and the City of Boston;
  (2) evaluate the suitability of establishing the Boston Harbor Islands as
  a unit of the National Park System;
  (3) assess the opportunities for expanded tourism, public education, and
  visibility by managing the Boston Harbor Islands in conjunction with units
  of the National Park System in the vicinity, including the Adams National
  Historic Site in Quincy, Massachusetts; and
  (4) evaluate the possibility for developing ferry service and other
  transportation links among those units to enhance their public use and
  enjoyment.
  (b) REPORT- The Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Congress a
  report on the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the study under
  subsection (a), by not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment
  of this title.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.