 
--S.2875--
S.2875
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To  amend the National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
to better assist children in homeless shelters, to enhance competition among
infant formula manufacturers and to reduce the per unit costs of infant
formula for the special supplemental food program for women, infants, and
children (WIC), and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Children's Nutrition Assistance Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--HOMELESS CHILDREN'S ASSISTANCE
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Homeless Children's Assistance Act of 1992'.
SEC. 102. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.
  Section 18(c)(2)(B)(i) of the National School Lunch Act (42
  U.S.C. 1769(c)(2)(B)(i)) is amended by striking `Each such organization'
  and inserting `Each private nonprofit organization'.
SEC. 103. ALLOCATION OF RETURNED FUNDS.
  Section 7(a)(5)(B)(i) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
  U.S.C. 1776(a)(5)(B)(i)) is amended--
  (1) by striking `, the Secretary shall--' and inserting a colon;
  (2) by striking subclause (I) and inserting the following new clause:
  `(I) The Secretary shall allocate, for the purpose of providing grants
  on an annual basis to public entities and private nonprofit organizations
  participating in projects under section 18(c) of the National School Lunch
  Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(c)), not more than $4,000,000 in each of fiscal years
  1993 and 1994. Subject to the maximum allocation for the projects for
  each fiscal year, at the beginning of each of fiscal years 1993 and 1994,
  the Secretary shall allocate, from funds available under this section that
  have not been otherwise allocated to the States, an amount equal to the
  estimates by the Secretary of funds to be returned under this clause, but
  not less than $1,000,000 in each fiscal year. To the extent that amounts
  returned to the Secretary are less than estimated or are insufficient to
  meet the needs of the projects, the Secretary may, subject to the maximum
  allocations established in this subclause, allocate amounts to meet the
  needs of the projects from funds available under this section that have
  not been otherwise allocated to States.'; and
  (3) in subclause (II), by striking `then allocate,' and inserting `After
  making the allocations under subclause (I), the Secretary shall allocate,'.
SEC. 104. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  This title and the amendments made by this title shall become effective
  on September 30, 1992.
TITLE II--WIC INFANT FORMULA PROCUREMENT
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `WIC Infant Formula Procurement Act of 1992'.
SEC. 202. WIC INFANT FORMULA PROTECTION.
  (a) FINDINGS-
  (1) the domestic infant formula industry is one of the most concentrated
  manufacturing industries in the United States;
  (2) only three pharmaceutical firms are responsible for almost all domestic
  infant formula production;
  (3) coordination of pricing and marketing strategies is a potential danger
  where only a very few companies compete regarding a given product;
  (4) improved competition among suppliers of infant formula to the special
  supplemental food program for women, infants, and children (WIC) can save
  substantial additional sums to be used to put thousands of additional
  eligible women, infants, and children on the WIC program; and
  (5) barriers exist in the infant formula industry that inhibit the entry
  of new firms and thus limit competition.
  (b) PURPOSES- It is the purpose of this title to enhance competition among
  infant formula manufacturers and to reduce the per unit costs of infant
  formula for the special supplemental food program for women, infants,
  and children (WIC).
SEC. 203. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 17(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(b))
  is amended by striking paragraph (17) and inserting the following new
  paragraphs:
  `(17) `Competitive bidding' means a procurement process under which the
  Secretary or a State agency selects a single source (a single infant
  formula manufacturer) offering the lowest price, as determined by the
  submission of sealed bids, for a product for which bids are sought for
  use in the program authorized by this section.
  `(18) `Rebate' means the amount of money refunded under cost containment
  procedures to any State agency from the manufacturer or other supplier of the
  particular food product as the result of the purchase of the supplemental
  food with a voucher or other purchase instrument by a participant in each
  such agency's program established under this section.
  `(19) `Discount' means, with respect to a State agency that provides
  program foods to participants without the use of retail grocery stores
  (such as a State that provides for the home delivery or direct distribution
  of supplemental food), the amount of the price reduction or other price
  concession provided to any State agency by the manufacturer or other supplier
  of the particular food product as the result of the purchase of program
  food by each such State agency, or its representative, from the supplier.
  `(20) `Net price' means the difference between the manufacturer's wholesale
  price for infant formula and the rebate level or the discount offered or
  provided by the manufacturer under a cost containment contract entered
  into with the pertinent State agency.'.
SEC. 204. PROCUREMENT OF INFANT FORMULA FOR WIC.
  Section 17(h)(8) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8))
  is amended by striking subparagraph (G) and inserting the following new
  subparagraphs:
  `(G)(i) The Secretary shall offer to solicit bids on behalf of State agencies
  regarding cost-containment contracts to be entered into by infant formula
  manufacturers and State agencies. The Secretary shall make the offer to
  State agencies once every 12 months. Each such bid solicitation shall only
  take place if two or more State agencies request the Secretary to perform
  the solicitation.  For such State agencies, the Secretary shall solicit
  bids and select the winning bidder for a cost containment contract to be
  entered into by State agencies and infant formula manufacturers or suppliers.
  `(ii) If the Secretary determines that the number of State agencies making
  the election in clause (i) so warrants, the Secretary may, in consultation
  with such State agencies, divide such State agencies into more than one
  group of such agencies and solicit bids for a contract for each such group.
  In determining the size of the groups of agencies, the Secretary shall,
  to the extent practicable, take into account the need to maximize the
  number of potential bidders so as to increase competition among infant
  formula manufacturers.
  `(iii) State agencies that elect to authorize the Secretary to perform the
  bid solicitation and selection process on their behalf and enter into the
  resulting containment contract shall obtain the rebates or discounts from
  the manufacturers or suppliers participating in the contract.
  `(iv) In soliciting bids and determining the winning bidder under clause
  (i), the Secretary shall comply with the requirements of subparagraphs
  (B) and (F).
  `(v)(I) Except as provided in subclause (II), the term of the contract for
  which bids are to be solicited under this paragraph shall be announced by
  the Secretary in consultation with the affected State agencies and shall
  be not less than 2 years.
  `(II) If the law of a State regarding the duration of contracts is
  inconsistent with subclause (I), the Secretary shall permit a 1-year
  contract, with the option provided to the State to extend the contract
  for additional years.
  `(vi) In prescribing specifications for the bids, the Secretary shall ensure
  that the contracts to be entered into by the State agencies and the infant
  formula manufacturers or suppliers provide for a constant net price for
  infant formula products for the full term of the contracts and provide
  for rebates or discounts for all units of infant formula sold through
  the program that are produced by the manufacturer awarded the contract
  and that are for a type of formula product covered under the contract.
  The contracts shall cover all types of infant formula products normally
  covered under cost containment contracts entered into by State agencies.
  `(vii) The Secretary shall also develop procedures for--
  `(I) rejecting all bids for any joint contract and announcing a
  resolicitation of infant formula bids where necessary;
  `(II) permitting a State agency that has authorized the Secretary to
  undertake bid solicitation on its behalf under this subparagraph to decline
  to enter into the joint contract to be negotiated and awarded pursuant to
  the solicitation if the agency promptly determines after the bids are opened
  that participation would not be in the best interest of its program; and
  `(III) assuring infant formula manufacturers submitting a bid under this
  subparagraph that a contract awarded pursuant to the bid will cover State
  agencies serving no fewer than a number of infants to be specified in the
  bid solicitation.
  `(viii) The bid solicitation and selection process on behalf of the State
  agencies shall be conducted in accordance with any procedures the Secretary
  deems necessary for the effective and efficient administration of the bid
  solicitation and selection process and consistent with the requirements
  of this subparagraph. The procedures established by the Secretary shall
  ensure that--
  `(I) the bid solicitation and selection process is conducted in a manner
  providing full and open competition; and
  `(II) the bid solicitation and selection process is free of any real or
  apparent conflict of interest.'.
  `(H) In soliciting bids for contracts for infant formula for the program
  authorized by this section, the Secretary shall solicit bids from infant
  formula manufacturers under procedures in which bids for rebates or
  discounts are solicited for milk-based and soy-based infant formula,
  separately, except where the Secretary determines that such solicitation
  procedures are not in the best interest of the program.
  `(I) To reduce the costs of any supplemental foods, the Secretary--
  `(i) shall promote, but not require, the joint purchase of infant formula
  among State agencies electing not to participate under the procedures set
  forth in subparagraph (G);
  `(ii) shall encourage and promote (but not require) the purchase of
  supplemental foods other than infant formula under cost containment
  procedures;
  `(iii) shall inform State agencies of the benefits of cost containment and
  provide assistance and technical advice at State agency request regarding
  the State agency's use of cost containment procedures;
  `(iv) shall encourage (but not require) the joint purchase of supplemental
  foods other than infant formula under procedures specified in subparagraph
  (B), if the Secretary determines that--
  `(I) the anticipated savings are expected to be significant;
  `(II) the administrative expenses involved in purchasing the food item
  through competitive bidding procedures, whether under a rebate or discount
  system, will not exceed the savings anticipated to be generated by the
  procedures; and
  `(III) the procedures would be consistent with the purposes of the
  program; and
  `(v) may make available additional funds to State agencies out of the
  funds otherwise available under paragraph (1)(A) for nutrition services
  and administration in an amount not exceeding one half of 1 percent of the
  amounts to help defray reasonable anticipated expenses associated with
  innovations in cost containment or associated with procedures that tend
  to enhance competition.
  `(J)(i) Any person, company, corporation, or other legal entity that submits
  a bid to supply infant formula to carry out the program authorized by this
  section and announces or otherwise discloses the amount of the bid, or
  the rebate or discount practices of such entities, in advance of the time
  the bids are opened by the Secretary or the State agency, or any person,
  company, corporation, or other legal entity that makes a statement (prior
  to the opening of bids) relating to levels of rebates or discounts, for
  the purpose of influencing a bid submitted by any other person, shall be
  ineligible to submit bids to supply infant formula to the program for the
  bidding in progress for up to 2 years from the date the bids are opened and
  shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $100,000,000, as determined
  by the Secretary to provide restitution to the program for harm done to
  the program. The Secretary shall issue regulations providing such person,
  company, corporation, or other legal entity appropriate notice, and an
  opportunity to be heard and to respond to charges.
  `(ii) The Secretary shall determine the length of the disqualification,
  and the amount of the civil penalty referred to in clause (i) based on
  such factors as the Secretary by regulation determines appropriate.
  `(iii) Any person, company, corporation, or other legal entity disqualified
  under clause (i) shall remain obligated to perform any requirements
  under any contract to supply infant formula existing at the time of the
  disqualification and until each such contract expires by its terms.
  `(K) Not later than the expiration of the 180-day period beginning on
  the date of enactment of this subparagraph, the Secretary shall prescribe
  regulations to carry out this paragraph.'.
SEC. 205. PROCEDURES TO REDUCE PURCHASES OF LOW-IRON INFANT FORMULA.
  Section 17(f) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(f))
  is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(22) In the State plan submitted to the Secretary for fiscal year 1994,
  each State agency shall advise the Secretary regarding the procedures to be
  used by the State agency to reduce the purchase of low-iron infant formula
  for infants on the program for whom such formula has not been prescribed
  by a physician or other appropriate health professional, as determined by
  regulations issued by the Secretary.'.
SEC. 206. ASSISTANCE TO ENCOURAGE ADDITIONAL COST CONTAINMENT EFFORTS.
  The second sentence of section 17(h)(2)(A) of the Child Nutrition Act of
  1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(2)(A)) is amended--
  (1) by  striking  `formula  shall--'  and  inserting  `formula--';
  (2) by inserting `shall' after the clause designations of each of clauses
  (i), (ii), and (iii);
  (3) by striking `and' at the end of clause (ii);
  (4) by striking the period at the end of clause (iii) and inserting `;
  and'; and
  (5) by adding at the end the following new clause:
  `(iv) may provide funds, to the extent funds are not already provided
  under subparagraph (I)(v) for the same purpose, to help defray reasonable
  anticipated expenses associated with innovations in cost containment or
  associated with procedures that tend to enhance competition.'.
SEC. 207. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.
  Section 17(h)(8)(E)(ii) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42
  U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)(E)(ii)) is amended by striking `that do not have large
  caseloads and'.
SEC. 208. STUDY.
  Not later than April 1, 1994, the Secretary of Agriculture shall report
  to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives
  and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate on--
  (1) State agencies that request the Secretary of Agriculture to conduct
  bid solicitations for infant formula under section 17(h)(8)(G)(i) of the
  Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)(G)(i)) (as amended by
  section 204 of this Act);
  (2) cost reductions achieved by the solicitations; and
  (3) other matters the Secretary determines to be appropriate regarding
  this title and the amendments made by this title.
SEC. 209. TERMINATION.
  The authority provided by this title and the amendments made by this
  title shall terminate on September 30, 1994, except with regard to section
  17(h)(8)(J) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(h)(8)(J))
  (as amended by section 204 of this Act).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.