 
--S.2938--
S.2938
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize the Architect of the Capitol to acquire certain property.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY OF THE ARCHITECT.
 (a) ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY- The Architect of the Capitol, under the direction
 of the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration, may acquire, on behalf
 of the United States Government, by purchase, condemnation, transfer or
 otherwise, as an addition to the United States Capitol Grounds, all publicly
 and privately owned real property in lots 34 and 35 in square 758 in the
 District of Columbia as those lots appear on the records in the Office
 of the Surveyor of the District of Columbia as the date of the enactment
 of this Act, extending to the outer face of the curbs of the square in
 which such lots are located and including all alleys or parts of alleys and
 streets within the lot lines and curb lines surrounding such real property,
 together with all improvements thereon.
 (b) UNITED STATES CAPITOL GROUNDS AND BUILDINGS- Immediately upon the
 acquisition by the Architect of the Capitol, on behalf of the United States,
 of the real property, and the improvements thereon, as provided under
 subsection (a), the real property acquired shall be a part of the United
 States Capitol Grounds, and the improvements on such real property shall be
 a part of the Senate Office Buildings. Such real property and improvements
 shall be subject to the Act of July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193a et seq.),
 and the Act of June 8, 1942 (40 U.S.C. 174c).
 (c) BUILDING CODES- The real property and improvements acquired in accordance
 with subsection (a) shall be repaired and altered, to the maximum extent
 feasible as determined by the Architect of the Capitol, in accordance with a
 nationally recognized model building code, and other applicable nationally
 recognized codes (including electrical codes, fire and life safety codes,
 and plumbing codes, as determined by the Architect of the Capitol), using
 the most current edition of the nationally recognized codes referred to in
 this subsection.
 (d) REPAIRS; EXPENDITURES- The Architect of the Capitol is authorized,
 without regard to the provisions of section 3709 of the Revised Statutes
 of the United States, to enter into contracts and to make expenditures
 for necessary repairs to, and refurbishment of, the real property and the
 improvements on such real property acquired in accordance with subsection (a),
 including expenditures for personal and other services as may be necessary
 to carry out the purposes of this Act. In no event shall the aggregate value
 of contracts and expenditures under this subsection exceed an amount equal
 to that authorized to be appropriated pursuant to subsection (e).
 (e) AUTHORIZATION- There is authorized to be appropriated to the account under
 the heading `Architect of the Capitol' and the subheadings `Capitol Buildings
 and Grounds' and `Senate Office Buildings', $2,000,000 for carrying out the
 purposes of this Act. Moneys appropriated pursuant to this authorization
 may remain available until expended.
 (f) USE OF PROPERTY- The real property, and improvements thereon, acquired
 in accordance with subsection (a) shall be available to the Sergeant at Arms
 and Doorkeeper of the Senate for use as a residential facility for United
 States Senate Pages, and for such other purposes as the Senate Committee
 on Rules and Administration may provide.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.