 
--S.292--
S.292
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To expand the boundaries of the Saguaro National Monument.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Saguaro National Monument Expansion Act
 of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that the area generally to the south of
 the Rincon unit of the Saguaro National Monument contains--
 (1) prime Sonoran desert habitat including an exceptionally rich area of
 Saguaro cactus and palo verde uplands;
 (2) an outstanding riparian corridor of large Arizona sycamores and
 cottonwoods;
 (3) important archaeological and cultural sites; and
 (4) important habitat for the desert tortoise, gila monster, javelina,
 and other species of reptiles, mammals, and birds.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to authorize the addition of
 approximately 3,540 acres to the Rincon unit of the Saguaro National Monument
 in order to protect, preserve, and interpret the monument's resources,
 and to provide for the education and benefit of the public.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act, the term--
 (1) `expansion area' means the approximately 3,540 acres to be added to
 the monument pursuant to this Act;
 (2) `monument' means the Saguaro National Monument; and
 (3) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 4. EXPANSION OF MONUMENT BOUNDARIES.
 (a)(1) IN GENERAL- The monument boundaries are hereby revised to include
 the approximately 3,540 acres of lands and interests in land as generally
 depicted on the map entitled `Saguaro National Monument Enhanced Boundary',
 numbered 151/91,001-D, and dated September 1990.
 (2) The map referred to in paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for
 public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, Department
 of the Interior.
 (b) ACQUISITION OF LANDS- The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands
 and interests in lands within the monument boundary by donation, purchase
 with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer from another
 Federal agency, except that lands or interests therein owned by the State
 of Arizona or any political subdivision thereof may be acquired only by
 donation or exchange.
 (c) ADMINISTRATION- Lands and interests in lands acquired pursuant to this
 Act shall be administered as part of the monument and shall be subject to
 all laws applicable to the monument.
 (d) AMENDMENT TO GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN- Within one year after the date of
 enactment of this Act, the Secretary is directed to amend the monument's
 general management plan with respect to the use and management of the
 expansion area.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.