 
--S.2941--
S.2941
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To provide the Administrator of the Small Business Administration continued
authority to administer the Small Business Innovation Research Program,
and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Small Business Research
  and Development Enhancement Act of 1992'.
  (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS- The table of contents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 103. Amendments to small business innovation research program.
Sec. 104. Extension of SBIR program.
Sec. 105. Reports of the Comptroller General.
Sec. 106. Recommendations of the Secretary of Defense.
TITLE II--SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PILOT PROGRAM
Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Establishment of small business technology transfer pilot program.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Discretionary technical assistance to SBIR awardees.
Sec. 302. Extension of the technology transfer demonstration program.
Sec. 303. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 304. Small Business Institutes.
Sec. 305. Additional SBIR and STTR provisions.
Sec. 306. Sense of the Congress concerning American-made equipment and
products.
Sec. 307. Technical corrections.
TITLE I--SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Small Business Innovation Research Program
  Reauthorization Act of 1992'.
SEC. 102. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
  (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  (1) the small business innovation research program established under
  the Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 (hereafter in this
  Act referred to as the `SBIR' program) has been a successful method of
  involving small business concerns in Federal research and development;
  (2) the small business innovation research program has been an effective
  catalyst for the development of technological innovations by small business
  concerns;
  (3) small business innovation research program participants have provided
  high quality research and development in a cost-effective manner;
  (4) the innovative products and services developed by small business
  concerns participating in the small business innovation research program
  have been important to the national defense, as well as to the missions
  of the other participating Federal agencies;
  (5) the small business innovation research program has effectively stimulated
  the commercialization of technology developed through Federal research and
  development, benefiting both the public and private sectors of the Nation;
  (6) by encouraging the development and commercialization of technological
  innovations, the small business innovation research program has created
  jobs, expanded business opportunities for small firms, stimulated the
  development of new products and services, and improved the competitiveness
  of the Nation's high technology industries;
  (7) the small business innovation research program has also helped to
  increase exports from small business concerns;
  (8) despite the general success of the small business innovation research
  program, the proportion of Federal research and development funds received
  by small business concerns has not increased over the life of the program,
  but has remained at 3 percent; and
  (9) although the participating Federal agencies have successfully implemented
  most aspects of the small business innovation research program, additional
  outreach efforts are necessary to stimulate increased participation of
  socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns.
  (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this title are--
  (1) to expand and improve the small business innovation research program;
  (2) to emphasize the program's goal of increasing private sector
  commercialization of technology developed through Federal research and
  development;
  (3) to increase small business participation in Federal research and
  development; and
  (4) to improve the Federal Government's dissemination of information
  concerning the small business innovation research program, particularly
  with regard to program participation by women-owned small business concerns
  and by socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns.
SEC. 103. AMENDMENTS TO SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM.
  (a) DEFINITION OF THE SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH PROGRAM- Section
  9(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)(4)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting `that appear to have commercial
  potential, as described in subparagraph (B)(ii),' after `ideas'; and
  (2) by striking subparagraphs (B) and (C) and inserting the following:
  `(B) a second phase, to further develop proposals which meet particular
  program needs, in which awards shall be made based on the scientific and
  technical merit and feasibility of the proposals, as evidenced by the first
  phase, considering, among other things, the proposal's commercial potential,
  as evidenced by--
  `(i) the small business concern's record of successfully commercializing
  SBIR or other research;
  `(ii) the existence of second phase funding commitments from private sector
  or non-SBIR funding sources;
  `(iii) the existence of third phase, follow-on commitments for the subject
  of the research; and
  `(iv) the presence of other indicators of the commercial potential of the
  idea; and
  `(C) where appropriate, a third phase--
  `(i) in which commercial applications of SBIR-funded research or research and
  development are funded by non-Federal sources of capital or, for products or
  services intended for use by the Federal Government, by follow-on non-SBIR
  Federal funding awards; and
  `(ii) for which awards from non-SBIR Federal funding sources are used for
  the continuation of research or research and development that has been
  competitively selected using peer review or scientific review criteria; and'.
  (b) REQUIRED EXPENDITURES FOR SBIR BY FEDERAL AGENCIES- Section 9(f)
  of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(f)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(f) FEDERAL AGENCY EXPENDITURES FOR THE SBIR PROGRAM-
  `(1) REQUIRED EXPENDITURE AMOUNTS- Each Federal agency which has an
  extramural budget for research or research and development in excess of
  $100,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, or any fiscal year thereafter, shall
  expend with small business concerns--
  `(A) not less than 1.5 percent of such budget in each of fiscal years 1993
  and 1994;
  `(B) not less than 2.0 percent of such budget in each of fiscal years 1995
  and 1996; and
  `(C) not less than 2.5 percent of such budget in each fiscal year thereafter,
specifically in connection with SBIR programs which meet the requirements
of this section, policy directives, and regulations issued under this section.
  `(2) LIMITATIONS- A Federal agency shall not--
  `(A) use any of its SBIR budget established pursuant to paragraph (1)
  for the purpose of funding administrative costs of the program, including
  costs associated with salaries and expenses; or
  `(B) make available for the purpose of meeting the requirements of paragraph
  (1) an amount of its extramural budget for basic research which exceeds
  the percentages specified in paragraph (1).
  `(3) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN FUNDING AGREEMENTS- Funding agreements with
  small business concerns for research or research and development which
  result from competitive or single source selections other than an SBIR
  program shall not be considered to meet any portion of the percentage
  requirements of paragraph (1).'.
  (c) INCLUSION OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
  ACTIVITIES- Section 9(e) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)) is
  amended in paragraph (1), by striking `for the Department of Defense' and
  all that follows through `development' and inserting `for the Department
  of Energy it shall not include amounts obligated for atomic energy defense
  programs solely for weapons activities or for naval reactor programs'.
  (d) SBIR SOLICITATIONS- Section 9(g) of the Small Business Act (15
  U.S.C. 638(g)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7) as paragraphs (4) through
  (8), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
  `(3) unilaterally determine research topics within the agency's SBIR
  solicitations, giving special consideration to broad research topics and
  to topics that further 1 or more critical technologies, as identified by--
  `(A) the National Critical Technologies Panel (or its successor) in the 1991
  report required under section 603 of the National Science and Technology
  Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976, and in subsequent reports
  issued under that authority; or
  `(B) the Secretary of Defense, in the 1992 report issued in accordance with
  section 2522 of title 10, United States Code, and in subsequent reports
  issued under that authority;'.
  (e) DEADLINE FOR FINAL PAYMENT UNDER SBIR FUNDING AGREEMENTS- Section
  9(g)(7) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(g)(7)) (as redesignated
  by subsection (d)(1)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon the
  following: `and, in all cases, make payment to recipients under such
  agreements in full, subject to audit, on or before the last day of the
  12-month period beginning on the date of completion of such requirements'.
  (f) MODIFICATIONS TO SBIR POLICY DIRECTIVES- Section 9(j) of the Small
  Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(j)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (2), by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (H)
  as clauses (i) through (viii), respectively;
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (7) as subparagraphs (A)
  through (G), respectively;
  (3) by inserting before `The Small Business Administration' the following:
  `(1) POLICY DIRECTIVES- '; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) MODIFICATIONS- Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment
  of the Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,
  the Administrator shall modify the policy directives issued pursuant to
  this subsection to provide for--
  `(A) retention by a small business concern of the rights to data generated
  by the concern in the performance of an SBIR award for a period of not
  less than 4 years;
  `(B) continued use by a small business concern participating in the
  third phase of the SBIR program, as a directed bailment, of any property
  transferred by a Federal agency to the small business concern in the
  second phase of an SBIR program for a period of not less than 2 years,
  beginning on the initial date of the concern's participation in the third
  phase of such program;
  `(C) procedures to ensure, to the extent practicable, that an agency which
  intends to pursue research, development, or production of a technology
  developed by a small business concern under an SBIR program enters into
  follow-on, non-SBIR funding agreements with the small business concern
  for such research, development, or production;
  `(D) an increase to $100,000 in the amount of funds which an agency may
  award in the first phase of an SBIR program, and to $750,000 in the second
  phase of an SBIR program, and an adjustment of such amounts once every 5
  years to reflect economic adjustments and programmatic considerations;
  `(E) a process for notifying the participating SBIR agencies and potential
  SBIR participants of the 1991, 1992, and the current critical technologies,
  as identified--
  `(i) by the National Critical Technologies Panel (or its successor), in
  accordance with section 603 of the National Science and Technology Policy,
  Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976; or
  `(ii) by the Secretary of Defense, in accordance with section 2522 of
  title 10, United States Code;
  `(F) enhanced outreach efforts to increase the participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns, as defined in section
  8(a)(4), and the participation of small businesses that are 51 percent owned
  and controlled by women in technological innovation and in SBIR programs,
  including the third phase of such programs, and the collection of data to
  document such participation;
  `(G) technical and programmatic guidance to encourage agencies to develop
  gap-funding programs to address the delay between an award for the first
  phase of an SBIR program and the application for and extension of an award
  for the second phase of such program;
  `(H) procedures to ensure that a small business concern that submits a
  proposal for a funding agreement for the first phase of an SBIR program
  and that has received more than 15 second phase SBIR awards during the
  preceding 5 fiscal years is able to demonstrate the extent to which it
  was able to secure third phase funding to develop concepts resulting from
  previous second phase SBIR awards; and
  `(I) procedures to ensure that agencies participating in the SBIR program
  retain the information submitted under subparagraph (H) at least until
  the General Accounting Office submits the report required under section
  105 of the Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992.'.
  (g) ELIMINATION OF SURVEYING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENT- Section 9(k)
  of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(k)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(k) [Reserved].'.
  (h) REPORTING OF AWARDS MADE FROM SINGLE PROPOSAL, TO MULTIPLE AWARD WINNERS,
  OR TO CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY TOPICS-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(l) REPORTING OF AWARDS MADE FROM SINGLE PROPOSAL, TO MULTIPLE AWARD
  WINNERS, OR TO CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY TOPICS-
  `(1) SINGLE PROPOSAL- If a Federal agency required to establish an
  SBIR program under subsection (f) makes an award with respect to an
  SBIR solicitation topic or subtopic for which the agency received only
  1 proposal, the agency shall provide written justification for making
  the award in its next quarterly report to the Administration and in the
  agency's next annual report required under subsection (g)(8).
  `(2) MULTIPLE AWARDS- An agency referred to in paragraph (1) shall include
  in its next annual report required under subsection (g)(8) an accounting of
  the awards the agency has made for the first phase of an SBIR program during
  the reporting period to entities that have received more than 15 awards
  for the second phase of an SBIR program during the preceding 5 fiscal years.
  `(3) CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY  AWARDS- An  agency referred to in paragraph (1)
  shall include in its next annual report required under subsection (g)(8),
  an accounting of the number of awards it has made to critical technology
  topics, as defined in subsection (g)(3), including an identification of
  the specific critical technologies topics, and the percentage by number
  and dollar amount of the agency's total SBIR awards to such critical
  technology topics.'.
  (2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 9(g)(5) of the Small Business Act
  (15 U.S.C. 638(g)(5)) (as redesignated by subsection (d)) is amended by
  inserting `subject to subsection (l),' before `unilaterally'.
  (i) INFORMATION ON ALLOWABLE EXPENSES- Section 9(g)(5) of the Small
  Business Act (as redesignated by subsection (d)) is amended by inserting
  before the semicolon the following: `and inform each awardee under such
  an agreement, to the extent possible, of the expenses of the awardee that
  will be allowable under the funding agreement'.
SEC. 104. EXTENSION OF SBIR PROGRAM.
  (a) REPEAL PROVISION- Section 5 of the Small Business Innovation Development
  Act of 1982 is hereby repealed.
  (b) TERMINATION DATE- Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638)
  is amended by adding at the end the following:
  `(m) TERMINATION- The authorization to carry out the Small Business
  Innovation Research Program under this section shall terminate on October
  1, 2000.'.
SEC. 105. REPORTS OF THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL.
  (a) INTERIM REPORT-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit
  to the Congress an interim report concerning the quality of research
  performed under SBIR program funding agreements entered into during fiscal
  year 1993 and thereafter. Copies of the interim report shall be furnished
  to each agency that has participated in the SBIR program in fiscal year
  1993 or thereafter.
  (2) CONTENTS OF REPORT- The Comptroller General shall include in the
  interim report required under paragraph (1)--
  (A) an assessment of the quality of the research performed under the SBIR
  program funding agreements entered into by each agency that has participated
  in the SBIR program beginning in fiscal year 1993 or thereafter, specifically
  addressing--
  (i) with respect to each such agency, whether or not there has been a
  demonstrable reduction in research quality; and
  (ii) in the case of such reduction, whether an increase in each such
  agency's required SBIR participation in accordance with section 9(f)(1)
  of the Small Business Act (as amended by subsection (b) of this section)
  would adversely affect the performance of the agency's research programs;
  (B) an analysis of the program authorized by section 301 of the Small
  Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, considering,
  among other things--
  (i) the extent to which each SBIR agency has implemented the program and
  the extent to which the program has improved the quality of agency-sponsored
  research and development;
  (ii) the effect of the program on recipient companies' ability to develop
  and commercialize technology;
  (iii) the cost of the program and the average cost per recipient company; and
  (iv) the extent to which SBIR companies continue to use the service after
  completion of the program; and
  (C) such other factors as the Comptroller General may deem appropriate.
  (b) FINAL REPORT- The Comptroller General of the United States shall
  transmit to the Congress a final report containing--
  (1) a review of the progress made by Federal agencies in meeting the
  requirements of section 9(f) of the Small Business Act (as amended by this
  Act), including increases in expenditures required by that subsection;
  (2) an analysis of participation by small business concerns in the third
  phase of SBIR programs, including a systematic evaluation of the techniques
  adopted by Federal agencies to foster commercialization;
  (3) an analysis of the extent to which awards under SBIR programs are made
  pursuant to section 9(l) of the Small Business Act (as added by section
  103(h)) in cases in which a program solicitation receives only 1 proposal;
  (4) an analysis of the extent to which awards in the first phase of the
  SBIR program are made to small business concerns that have received more
  than 15 second phase awards under the SBIR program in the preceding 5
  fiscal years, considering--
  (A) the extent to which such concerns were able to secure Federal or
  private sector follow-on funding;
  (B) the extent to which the research developed under such awards was
  commercialized; and
  (C) the amount of commercialization of research developed under such awards,
  as compared to the amount of commercialization of SBIR research for the
  entire SBIR program;
  (5) the results of periodic random audits of the extramural budget of each
  such Federal agency;
  (6) a review of the extent to which the purposes of this title and the Small
  Business Innovation Development Act of 1982 have been met with regard to
  fostering and encouraging the participation of women-owned small business
  concerns and socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns
  (as defined in the Small Business Act) in technological innovation, in
  general, and the SBIR program, in particular;
  (7) an analysis of the effectiveness of the SBIR program in promoting the
  development of the critical technologies identified by the Secretary of
  Defense and the National Critical Technologies Panel (or its successor),
  as described in subparagraph 9(j)(2)(E) of the Small Business Act;
  (8) an analysis of the impact of agency application review periods and
  funding cycles on SBIR program awardees' financial status and ability to
  commercialize; and
  (9) recommendations to the Congress for tracking the extent to which foreign
  firms, or United States firms with substantial foreign ownership interests,
  benefit from technology or products developed as a direct result of SBIR
  research or research and development.
  (c) DATES OF SUBMISSION- The report required--
  (1) under subsection (a), shall be submitted to the Congress not later
  than March 31, 1995; and
  (2) under subsection (b), shall be submitted to the Congress not later
  than 5 years after the date of enactment of this title.
SEC. 106. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
  Not later than March 31, 1996, the Secretary of Defense shall submit
  a recommendation to the Congress addressing whether there has been a
  demonstrable reduction in the quality of research performed under the SBIR
  program since the beginning of fiscal year 1993, such that increasing the
  percentage under section 9(f)(1)(C) of the Small Business Act (as amended
  by section 103 of this Act) would adversely affect the performance of the
  research programs of the Department of Defense.
TITLE II--SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PILOT PROGRAM
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
  This title may be cited as the `Small Business Technology Transfer Act
  of 1992'.
SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PILOT PROGRAM.
  (a) ADDITIONAL SBA DUTIES- Section 9(b) of the Small Business Act (15
  U.S.C. 638(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (4), by inserting `and small business technology transfer
  pilot programs' after `small business innovation research programs'; and
  (2) in paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), by inserting `and STTR' after `SBIR'
  each place such term appears.
  (b) SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PILOT PROGRAM DEFINED- Section 9(e)
  of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638(e)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (4), by striking `and' at the end;
  (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and inserting a
  semicolon; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(6) the term `Small Business Technology Transfer Program' or `STTR' means
  a pilot program under which a portion of a Federal agency's extramural
  research or research and development effort is reserved for award to
  small business concerns for cooperative research and development through
  a uniform process having--
  `(A) a first phase, to determine, to the extent possible, the scientific,
  technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of ideas submitted pursuant
  to STTR program solicitations;
  `(B) a second phase, to further develop proposed ideas to meet particular
  program needs, in which awards shall be made based on the scientific,
  technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the idea, as evidenced
  by the first phase and by other relevant information; and
  `(C) where appropriate, a third phase--
  `(i) in which commercial applications of STTR-funded research or research and
  development are funded by non-Federal sources of capital or, for products or
  services intended for use by the Federal Government, by follow-on non-STTR
  Federal funding awards; and
  `(ii) for which awards from non-STTR Federal funding sources are used for
  the continuation of research or research and development that has been
  competitively selected using peer review or scientific review criteria;
  `(7) the term `cooperative research and development' means research or
  research and development conducted jointly by a small business concern
  and a research institution in which not less than 40 percent of the work
  is performed by the small business concern, and not less than 30 percent
  of the work is performed by the research institution; and
  `(8) the term `research institution' means a nonprofit institution, as
  defined in section 4(5) of the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act
  of 1980, and includes federally funded research and development centers,
  as identified by the National Scientific Foundation in accordance with
  the governmentwide  Federal Acquisition Regulation issued in accordance
  with section 35(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act
  (or any successor regulation thereto).'.
  (c) ESTABLISHMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAMS BY CERTAIN
  FEDERAL AGENCIES- Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(n) Required Expenditures for STTR by Federal Agencies-
  `(1) REQUIRED EXPENDITURE AMOUNTS- Each Federal agency which has an
  extramural budget for research or research and development in excess of
  $1,000,000,000 in fiscal year 1994, 1995, or 1996, is authorized to expend
  with small business concerns--
  `(A) not less than 0.05 percent of such budget in fiscal year 1994;
  `(B) not less than 0.1 percent of such budget in fiscal year 1995; and
  `(C) not less than 0.15 percent of such budget in fiscal year 1996,
specifically in connection with STTR programs which meet the requirements
of this section, policy directives, and regulations issued under this section.
  `(2) LIMITATIONS- A Federal agency shall not--
  `(A) use any of its STTR budget established pursuant to paragraph (1)
  for the purpose of funding administrative costs of the program, including
  costs associated with salaries and expenses, or, in the case of a small
  business concern or a research institution, costs associated with salaries,
  expenses, and administrative overhead (other than those direct or indirect
  costs allowable under guidelines of the Office of Management and Budget
  and the governmentwide Federal Acquisition Regulation issued in accordance
  with section 25(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act); or
  `(B) make available for the purpose of meeting the requirements of paragraph
  (1) an amount of its extramural budget for basic research which exceeds
  the percentage specified in paragraph (1).
  `(3) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN FUNDING AGREEMENTS- Funding agreements with
  small business concerns for research or research and development which
  result from competitive or single source selections other than an STTR
  program shall not be considered to meet any portion of the percentage
  requirements of paragraph (1).
  `(o) FEDERAL AGENCY STTR AUTHORITY- Each Federal agency required to establish
  an STTR program in accordance with subsection (n) and regulations issued
  under this Act, shall--
  `(1) unilaterally determine categories of projects to be included in its
  STTR program;
  `(2) issue STTR solicitations in accordance with a schedule determined
  cooperatively with the Administration;
  `(3) unilaterally determine research topics within the agency's STTR
  solicitations, giving special consideration to broad research topics and
  to topics that further 1 or more critical technologies, as identified--
  `(A) by the National Critical Technologies Panel (or its successor) in
  reports required under section 603 of the National Science and Technology
  Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976; or
  `(B) by the Secretary of Defense, in accordance with section 2522 of title
  10, United States Code;
  `(4) unilaterally receive and evaluate proposals resulting from STTR
  solicitations;
  `(5) unilaterally select awardees for its STTR funding agreements and
  inform each awardee under such an agreement, to the extent possible, of the
  expenses of the awardee that will be allowable under the funding agreement;
  `(6) administer its own STTR funding agreements (or delegate such
  administration to another agency);
  `(7) make payments to recipients of STTR funding agreements on the basis of
  progress toward or completion of the funding agreement requirements and,
  in all cases, make payment to recipients under such agreements in full,
  subject to audit, on or before the last day of the 12-month period beginning
  on the date of the completion of such requirements;
  `(8) submit an annual report on the STTR program to the Administration
  and the Office of Science and Technology Policy;
  `(9) develop a model agreement not later than July 31, 1993, to be approved
  by the Administration, for allocating between small business concerns and
  research institutions intellectual property rights and rights, if any,
  to carry out follow-on research, development, or commercialization;
  `(10) develop, in consultation with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
  and the Office of Government Ethics, procedures to ensure that federally
  funded research and development centers (as defined in subsection (e)(8))
  that participate in STTR agreements--
  `(A) are free from organizational conflicts of interests relative to the
  STTR program;
  `(B) do not use privileged information gained through work performed for an
  STTR agency or private access to STTR agency personnel in the development
  of an STTR proposal; and
  `(C) use outside peer review, as appropriate; and
  `(11) not later than July 31, 1993, develop procedures for assessing the
  commercial merit and feasibility of STTR proposals, as evidenced by--
  `(A) the small business concern's record of successfully commercializing
  STTR or other research;
  `(B) the existence of second phase funding commitments from private sector
  or non-STTR funding sources;
  `(C) the existence of third phase follow-on commitments for the subject
  of the research; and
  `(D) the presence of other indicators of the commercial potential of
  the idea.
  `(p) STTR POLICY DIRECTIVE-
  `(1) ISSUANCE- The Administrator shall issue a policy directive  for the
  general conduct of the STTR programs within the Federal Government. Such
  policy directive shall be issued after consultation with--
  `(A) the heads of each of the Federal agencies required by subsection (n)
  to establish an STTR program;
  `(B) the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks; and
  `(C) the Director of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy.
  `(2) CONTENTS- The policy directive required by paragraph (1) shall
  provide for--
  `(A) simplified, standardized, and timely STTR solicitations;
  `(B) a simplified, standardized funding process that provides for--
  `(i) the timely receipt and review of proposals;
  `(ii) outside peer review, if appropriate;
  `(iii) protection of proprietary information provided in proposals;
  `(iv) selection of awardees;
  `(v) retention by a small business concern of the rights to data generated
  by the concern in the performance of an STTR award for a period of not
  less than 4 years;
  `(vi) continued use by a small business concern, as a directed bailment,
  of any property transferred by a Federal agency to the small business
  concern in the second phase of the STTR program for a period of not less
  than 2 years, beginning on the initial date of the concern's participation
  in the third phase of such program;
  `(vii) cost sharing;
  `(viii) cost principles and payment schedules; and
  `(ix) 1-year awards for the first phase of an STTR program, generally not to
  exceed $100,000, and 2-year awards for the second phase of an STTR program,
  generally not to exceed $500,000, greater or lesser amounts to be awarded
  at the discretion of the awarding agency;
  `(C) minimizing regulatory burdens associated with participation in STTR
  programs;
  `(D) guidelines for a model agreement, to be used by all agencies, for
  allocating between small business concerns and research institutions
  intellectual property rights and rights, if any, to carry out follow-on
  research, development, or commercialization;
  `(E) procedures to ensure that--
  `(i) a recipient of an STTR award is a small business concern, as defined
  in section 3 and the regulations promulgated thereunder; and
  `(ii) such small business concern exercises management and control of
  the performance of the STTR funding agreement pursuant to a business plan
  providing for the commercialization of the technology that is the subject
  matter of the award; and
  `(F) procedures to ensure, to the extent practicable, that an agency which
  intends to pursue research, development, or production of a technology
  developed by a small business concern under an STTR program enters into
  follow-on, non-STTR funding agreements with the small business concern
  for such research, development, or production.'.
  (d) TIMING OF ISSUANCE OF POLICY DIRECTIVE- The policy directive required
  by section 9(p) of the Small Business Act (as added by subsection (c)
  of this section) shall be published--
  (1) in proposed form (with an opportunity for public comment of not less
  than 30 days), not later than April 30, 1993; and
  (2) in final form, not later than July 31, 1993.
  (e) REPORT OF THE COMPTROLLER GENERAL- Not later than March 31, 1996,
  the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to the
  Congress and the head of each agency that is required to make expenditures
  under the STTR program that--
  (1) sets forth the Comptroller General's assessment, with respect to each
  such agency, of--
  (A) the quality of research performed under funding agreements awarded by
  that agency under the STTR program since the beginning of the program;
  (B) whether or not the STTR program has affected the performance of that
  agency's research programs; and
  (C) the commercial potential of research conducted under the STTR program,
  if sufficient data is available;
  (2) contains the Comptroller General's assessment as to the effects of
  the STTR program, if any, on the research quality and goals of the SBIR
  program; and
  (3) determines the agencies and the federally-funded research and development
  centers' compliance with the procedures developed under section 9(g)(10)
  of the Small Business Act, as amended by this section.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. DISCRETIONARY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SBIR AWARDEES.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(q) DISCRETIONARY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Each Federal agency required by this section to conduct
  an SBIR program may enter into an agreement with a vendor selected
  under paragraph (2) to provide small business concerns engaged in SBIR
  projects with technical assistance services, such as access to a network of
  scientists and engineers engaged in a wide range of technologies, or access
  to technical and business literature available through on-line data bases,
  for the purpose of assisting such concerns in--
  `(A) making better technical decisions concerning such projects;
  `(B) solving technical problems which arise during the conduct of such
  projects;
  `(C) minimizing technical risks associated with such projects; and
  `(D) developing and commercializing new commercial products and processes
  resulting from such projects.
  `(2) VENDOR SELECTION- Annually, each agency may select a vendor for
  purposes of this subsection using competitive, merit-based criteria,
  to assist small business concerns to meet the goals listed in paragraph (1).
  `(3) ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE-
  `(A) FIRST PHASE- Each agency referred to in paragraph (1) may provide
  services described in paragraph (1) to first phase SBIR award recipients
  in an amount equal to not more than $4,000, which shall be in addition to
  the amount of the recipient's award.
  `(B) SECOND PHASE- Each agency referred to in paragraph (1) may authorize
  any second phase SBIR award recipient to purchase, with funds available
  from their SBIR awards, services described in paragraph (1), in an amount
  equal to not more than $4,000 per year.
SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF THE TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.
  Section 231 of the Small Business Administration Reauthorization and
  Amendments Act of 1990 (15 U.S.C. 648 note) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (g), by striking `1993' and inserting `1995'; and
  (2) in subsection (i), by striking `1991, 1992, and' and inserting `1994
  and 1995'.
SEC. 303. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
  (a) REPORT ON DEFICIENT SUBCONTRACTING PLANS- Section 8(d) of the Small
  Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (11); and
  (2) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (11).
  (b) SMALL PURCHASES FROM FEDERAL PRISON INDUSTRIES- Section 4124(c)
  of title 18, United States Code, is amended in the first sentence by
  striking `to the General Services Administration' and all that follows
  through `Procurement Policy Act' and inserting `acquisitions of products
  and services from Federal Prison Industries to the Federal Procurement
  Data System (as referred to in section 6(d)(4) of the Office of Federal
  Procurement Policy Act) in the same manner as it reports other acquisitions'.
SEC. 304. SMALL BUSINESS INSTITUTES.
  Section 8(b)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) and (F) as subparagraphs (F) and
  (G), respectively; and
  (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:
  `(E) In carrying out its functions under subparagraph (A), to make grants
  (including contracts and cooperative agreements) to any public or private
  institution of higher education for the establishment and operation of a
  small business institute, which shall be used to provide business counseling
  and assistance to small business concerns through the activities of students
  enrolled at the institution, which students shall be entitled to receive
  educational credits for their activities.'.
SEC. 305. ADDITIONAL SBIR AND STTR PROVISIONS.
  Section 9 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638), is amended by adding
  at the end the following new subsection:
  `(r) THIRD PHASE AGREEMENTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In the case of a small business concern that is awarded
  a funding agreement for the second phase of an SBIR or STTR program, a
  Federal agency may enter into a third phase agreement with that business
  concern for additional work to be performed during or after the second
  phase period. The second phase funding agreement with the small business
  concern may, at the discretion of the agency awarding the agreement, set
  out the procedures applicable to third phase agreements with that agency
  or any other agency.
  `(2) DEFINITION- In this subsection, the term `third phase agreement'
  means a follow-on, non-SBIR or non-STTR funded contract as described in
  paragraph (4)(C) or paragraph (6)(C) of subsection (e).
  `(3) INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS- Each funding agreement under an SBIR
  or STTR program shall include provisions setting forth the respective
  rights of the United States and the small business concern with respect
  to intellectual property rights and with respect to any right to carry
  out follow-on research.'.
SEC. 306. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS CONCERNING AMERICAN-MADE EQUIPMENT AND
PRODUCTS.
  (a) PURCHASE OF AMERICAN-MADE EQUIPMENT AND PRODUCTS- It is the sense of the
  Congress that an entity that is awarded a funding agreement under the SBIR
  program of a Federal agency under section 9 of the Small Business Act should,
  when purchasing any equipment or a product with funds provided through
  the funding agreement, purchase only American-made equipment and products,
  to the extent possible in keeping with the overall purposes of that program.
  (b) NOTICE TO SBIR AWARDEES- Each Federal agency that awards funding
  agreements under the SBIR program shall provide to each recipient of such
  an award a notice describing the sense of the Congress, as set forth in
  subsection (a).
SEC. 307. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
  (a) SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION RATES- Section 714(b)(4) of the Small
  Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program Act of 1988 (15 U.S.C. 644
  note, 102 Stat. 3892) is amended by inserting `or other services in support
  of such contracts' after `(including surveying and mapping)'.
  (b) MICROLOAN PROGRAM FUNDING- Section 7(m)(7) of the Small Business Act
  (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(7)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by adding at the end the following: `If, at
  the end of fiscal year 1992, the Administration has funded less than 50
  microloan programs under this subparagraph, the Administration may, in
  fiscal year 1993, fund a number of additional microloan programs equal to
  the difference between 50 and the number of microloan programs actually
  funded in fiscal year 1992.'; and
  (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking `In the second' and inserting `In
  addition to any microloan programs authorized to be funded in fiscal year
  1993 in accordance with subparagraph (A), in the second'.
  (c) DEFINITION OF INTERMEDIARY- Section 7(m)(11)(A)(ii) of the Small Business
  Act (15 U.S.C. 636(m)(11)(A)(ii)) is amended by inserting `private,' before
  `nonprofit'.
  (d) SECONDARY LOAN MARKETS- Section 5(f)(4) of the Small Business Act
  (15 U.S.C. 634(f)(4)) is amended by striking `5(e), 7(a)(6), or 7(a)(8)'
  and inserting `7(a)(6)(C) or subsection (e) of this section'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.