 
--S.3007--
S.3007
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize financial assistance for the construction and maintenance of
the Mary
McLeod Bethune Memorial Fine Arts Center.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. MARY MCLEOD BETHUNE MEMORIAL FINE ARTS CENTER.
  In recognition of the remarkable career of Mary McLeod Bethune, founder and
  president of Bethune-Cookman College, founder and first president of the
  National Council of Negro Women, and confidant and advisor to Presidents of
  the United States, and in order to enhance the ability of Bethune-Cookman
  College to carry on the unique quality of service to the community and to
  the Nation that characterizes the life of Mary McLeod Bethune, the Secretary
  of Education shall, in accordance with the provisions of this section,
  provide financial assistance to the Bethune-Cookman College in Volusia
  County, Florida, to enable the Bethune-Cookman College to establish the
  Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial Fine Arts Center.
SEC. 2. APPLICATION.
  No financial assistance may be made under this Act except upon an
  application at such time, in such manner, and containing or accompanied
  by such information as the Secretary of Education may reasonably require.
SEC. 3. USE OF FUNDS.
  The financial assistance made available pursuant to this Act shall be used
  for the construction, maintenance, and endowment of the Mary McLeod Bethune
  Memorial Fine Arts Center; the acquisition of necessary equipment; and the
  acquisition of necessary real property for the establishment of the Center.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums, not to exceed $15,700,000,
  as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this Act. Funds
  appropriated pursuant to this Act shall remain available until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.