 
--S.3175--
S.3175
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To improve the administrative provisions and make technical corrections in the
National and Community Service Act of 1990.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `National and Community Service Technical
  Amendment Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. REFERENCES.
  Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this Act an amendment
  or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or a repeal of, a
  section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to be made
  to a section or other provision of the National and Community Service Act
  of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq.).
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 101 (42 U.S.C. 12511) is amended--
  (1) by striking paragraph (29) and inserting the following new paragraph:
  `(29) The term `summer program' means a full-time or part-time youth corps
  program authorized under this title that is limited to a period beginning
  after April 30 and ending before October 1.'; and
  (2) by striking `stipends' in paragraph (30) and inserting `living
  allowances'.
SEC. 4. AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.
  Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 112(b), and sections 113(10), 115(c)(2),
  116(b), 164(2), 179(d), and 190(c)(8) (42 U.S.C. 12522(b) (1) and (2),
  12523(10), 12525(c)(2), 12526(b), 12615(2), 12639(d), and 12651(c)(8))
  are amended by striking `Secretary' each place it appears and inserting
  `Commission'.
SEC. 5. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
  Section 121 (42 U.S.C. 12541) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 121. GENERAL AUTHORITY.
  `The Commission may make grants under section 102 to States or local
  applicants and may transfer funds to the Secretary of Agriculture, to the
  Secretary of the Interior, or to the Director of ACTION for the creation
  or expansion of full-time, part-time, year-round, or summer, youth corps
  programs'.
SEC. 6. AGE.
  Section 130(a)(1) (42 U.S.C.  12550(a)(1)) is amended by striking `15'
  and inserting `14'.
SEC. 7. PEACE CORPS.
  (a) ELIGIBILITY AND SELECTION PROCEDURES- Section 161(a)(2) (42
  U.S.C. 12612(a)(2)) is amended by striking `at least 3 years'.
  (b) EDUCATIONAL BENEFITS- Section 163(c)(2) (42 U.S.C. 12614(c)(2)) is
  amended by striking `serve 3 years' and inserting `satisfactorily complete
  the service of the individual'.
SEC. 8. ASSISTANCE FOR HEAD START.
  Section 166 (42 U.S.C. 12622) is amended by inserting `, and to projects
  of the type described in section 211(a) of the Domestic Volunteer Service
  Act operating under memoranda of agreement with the ACTION Agency,' after
  `Domestic Volunteer Service Act)'.
SEC. 9. EVALUATION.
  Section 179 (42 U.S.C. 12639) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(2) by striking `subsection (h)' and inserting
  `subsection (j)';
  (2) in subsection (f) by inserting `or post-service benefit' after
  `voucher'; and
  (3) in subsection (h)--
  (A) in paragraph (1) by striking `subsection (g)' and inserting `this
  section'; and
  (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph:
  `(2) CONFIDENTIALITY-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall maintain the confidentiality of
  information acquired under this subsection regarding individual participants.
  `(B) DISCLOSURE-
  `(i) CONSENT- The content of any information described in subparagraph
  (A) may be disclosed with the prior written consent of the individual
  participant with respect to whom the information is maintained.
  `(ii) AGGREGATE INFORMATION- The Commission may disclose information about
  the aggregate characteristics of such participants.
SEC. 10. COMMISSION ON NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE.
  Section 190 (42 U.S.C. 12651) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b)--
  (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting `Director of the Office of National
  Drug Control Policy,' after `Agriculture,'; and
  (B) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as paragraphs (3) through
  (6), respectively;
  (2) in subsection (d) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(3) The Board may--
  `(A) appoint the Director without regard to the provisions of title 5, United
  States Code, governing the appointments in the competitive service; and
  `(B) fix the compensation of the Director without regard to the provisions
  of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to
  classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of
  compensation shall not exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable for
  level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United
  States Code.';
  (3) in subsection (e)--
  (A) by striking `TECHNICAL EMPLOYEES- The Director' and inserting `EMPLOYEES-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Director';
  (B) in paragraph (1) (as designated by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph)--
  (i) by striking `10 technical' and inserting `eight';
  (ii) by striking `Committee' and inserting `Commission'; and
  (iii) by inserting before the period the following: `, except that the
  rate of compensation for two of the eight employees shall not exceed the
  annual rate of basic pay payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under
  section 5316 of title 5, United States Code, and the rate of compensation
  for the remaining six of the eight employees shall not exceed the maximum
  annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-15s under the General Schedule
  under section 5332 of title 5, United States Code'; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
  `(2) ADDITIONAL STAFF- The Director may, at the discretion of the Board,
  appoint and compensate such staff as the Director determines to be necessary
  to carry out the duties of the Commission.
  `(3) CONSULTANTS- Subject to the rules prescribed by the Commission, the
  Director may procure the temporary and intermittent services of experts
  and consultants and compensate the experts and consultants in accordance
  with section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(4) DETAILS OF PERSONNEL- The head of any Federal department or agency
  may detail on a reimbursable basis, or on a nonreimbursable basis for
  not to exceed 180 calendar days during any fiscal year, as agreed upon by
  the Director and the head of the Federal agency, any of the personnel of
  that department or agency to the Commission to assist the Commission in
  carrying out the duties of the Commission under this Act. Any detail shall
  not interrupt or otherwise affect the civil service status or privileges
  of the Federal employee.
  `(5) DONATIONS-
  `(A) SERVICES-
  `(i) VOLUNTEERS- Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal law, the
  Commission may accept the voluntary services of individuals, and provide
  to such individuals the travel expenses described in subsection (b)(6).
  `(ii) LIMITATION- Such a volunteer shall not be considered to be a Federal
  employee and shall not be subject to the provisions of law relating to
  Federal employment including those relating to hours of work, rates of
  compensation, leave, unemployment compensation, and Federal employee
  benefits, except as follows:
  `(I) TORT CLAIMS- For the purposes of the tort claims provisions of chapter
  171 of title 28, United States Code, a volunteer under this subtitle shall
  be considered to be a Federal employee.
  `(II) CIVIL EMPLOYEE- For the purposes of subchapter I of chapter 81 of
  title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation to Federal employees
  for work injuries, volunteers under this subtitle shall be considered to
  be employees, as defined in section 8101(1)(B) of title 5, United States
  Code, and the provisions of such subchapter shall apply.
  `(B) PROPERTY- The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of, in furtherance
  of the purposes of this Act, donations of any money or property, real,
  personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, received by gift, devise,
  bequest, or otherwise.
  `(C) RULES- The Commission shall establish written rules setting forth the
  criteria to be used in determining whether the acceptance of contributions
  of money or property, real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible,
  received by gift, device, bequest, or otherwise (pursuant to subparagraph
  (B)) would reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the Commission or any
  employee of the Commission to carry out the responsibilities or official
  duties of the Commission in a fair and objective manner, or would compromise
  the integrity of the programs of the Commission or any official involved
  in such programs.
  `(D) DISPOSITION- Upon completion of the use by the Commission of
  any affected property, such completion shall be reported to the General
  Services Administration and such property shall be disposed in accordance
  with title II of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of
  1949 (40 U.S.C. 471 et seq.).
  `(6) CONTRACTS- Subject to the Federal Property and Administrative Services
  Act of 1949, the Commission may enter into contracts, and cooperative and
  interagency agreements, with Federal and State agencies, private firms,
  institutions, and individuals to conduct activities necessary to carry
  out the duties of the Commission under this Act.'; and
  (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(i) USE OF MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the
  same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies
  of the United States.
  `(j) INFORMATION FROM FEDERAL AGENCIES- The Commission may secure directly
  from an officer, department, agency, establishment, or instrumentality of
  the Federal Government such information and statistics as the Commission may
  require to carry out the duties of the Commission under this Act. On the
  request of the Director of the Commission, each such officer, department,
  agency, establishment, or instrumentality may furnish, to the extent
  permitted by law, such information and statistics directly to the Commission.
  `(k) SOURCES OF SUPPLIES AND SERVICES- The Commission may use General
  Services Administration sources of supplies and services.'.
SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 501(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 12681(a)(1)) is amended to
  read as follows:
  `(1) TITLE I-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
  subtitles B, C, D, E, and F of title I, $102,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.
  `(B) SUBTITLE G- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out
  subtitle G of title I, $3,000,000 for fiscal year 1993.'.
  (b) EARMARKS- Section 501(a)(2) (42 U.S.C. 12681(a)(2)) is amended--
  (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking `paragraph (1)'
  and inserting `paragraph (1)(A)';
  (2) by striking subparagraph (A);
  (3) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (C);
  (4) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (D) and inserting
  a semicolon;
  (5) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) as subparagraphs (A),
  (B), and (C), respectively; and
  (6) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(D) any remaining funds may be expended for any activity authorized in
  title I.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.