 
--S.3163--
S.3163
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to coordinate Federal and
State regulation of wholesale drug distribution, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND REFERENCE.
 (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Prescription Drug Amendments
 of 1992'.
 (b) REFERENCE- Whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in
 terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the
 reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision
 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
SEC. 2. DISTRIBUTOR REGISTRATION.
 (a) REQUIREMENT- Section 503(e)(2)(A) (21 U.S.C. 353(e)(2)(A)) is amended
 by inserting before the period the following: `or has registered with the
 Secretary in accordance with paragraph (3)'.
 (b) REGISTRATION- Section 503(e) (21 U.S.C. 353(e)) is amended by
 redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4) and by inserting after paragraph
 (2) the following:
 `(3) Any person who engages in the wholesale distribution in interstate
 commerce of drugs that are subject to subsection (b) in a State that does
 not have a program that meets the guidelines established under paragraph
 (2)(B) shall register with the Secretary the following:
 `(A) The person's name and place of business.
 `(B) The name of each establishment the person owns or operates that is
 engaged in the wholesale distribution of drugs in a State that does not
 have a program to license persons engaged in such distribution.'.
 (c) TECHNICAL- Section 503(f)(1)(B) (21 U.S.C. 353(f)(1)(B)) is amended by
 striking out `and order' and inserting in lieu thereof `an order'.
 (d) SUNSET- Effective September 14, 1994, the amendments made by subsections
 (a) and (b) shall no longer be in effect.
SEC. 3. PENALTY CLARIFICATION.
 (a) SCIENTER- Paragraph (1) of section 303(b) (21 U.S.C. 333(b)) is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(b)(1) Notwithstanding subsection (a), any person who violates section
 301(t) by--
 `(A) knowingly importing a drug in violation of section 801(d)(1),
 `(B) knowingly selling, purchasing, or trading a drug or drug sample or
 knowingly offering to sell, purchase, or trade a drug or drug sample,
 in violation of section 503(c)(1),
 `(C) knowingly selling, purchasing, or trading a coupon, knowingly offering
 to sell, purchase, or trade such a coupon, or knowingly counterfeiting such
 a coupon, in violation of section 503(c)(2), or
 `(D) knowingly distributing drugs in violation of section 503(e)(2)(A),
shall be imprisoned for not more than 10 years or fined not more than $250,000,
or both.'.
 (b) CLARIFICATION- Section 303 (21 U.S.C. 333) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraphs (A) and (B)(i) of subsection (b)(4), by striking out `the
 arrest and conviction of' each time it occurs and inserting in lieu thereof
 `the institution of a criminal proceeding against, and conviction of,';
 (2) in subparagraph (B)(i) of subsection (b)(4), by striking out `the
 arrest of' and inserting in lieu thereof `the institution of a criminal
 proceeding against';
 (3) in subsection (b)(5), by striking out `the arrest and conviction of'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `the institution of a criminal proceeding
 against, and conviction of,';
 (4) in subsections (c) and (d), by striking out `subsection (a) of this
 section' and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection (a)(1) of this section';
 and
 (5) in subsection (d), by striking out `, and no person' and all that
 follows through `mislead'.
SEC. 4. DRUG SAMPLES.
 Section 503 (21 U.S.C. 353) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3), no person may distribute
 any drug sample. For purposes of this subsection, the term `distribute'
 does not include the providing of a drug sample to a patient by a--
 `(A) practitioner licensed to prescribe such drug,
 `(B) health care professional acting at the direction and under the
 supervision of such a practitioner, or
 `(C) pharmacy of a hospital or of another health care entity that is acting at
 the direction of such a practitioner and that received such sample pursuant
 to paragraph (2) or (3).'.
 (2) in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (d), by striking out `distributor'
 each place it occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `authorized distributor
 of record' and in subsection (d)(3) by striking out `distributors' each place
 it occurs and inserting in lieu thereof `authorized distributors of record';
 (3) in subsection (e), by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
 `(e)(1)(A) Each person who is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a drug
 subject to subsection (b) and who is not the manufacturer or an authorized
 distributor of record of such drug shall, before each wholesale distribution
 of such drug (including each distribution to an authorized distributor of
 record or to a retail pharmacy), provide to the person who receives the drug
 a statement (in such form and containing such information as the Secretary
 may require) identifying each prior sale, purchase, or trade of such drug
 (including the date of the transaction and the names and addresses of all
 parties to the transaction).
 `(B) Each manufacturer of a drug subject to subsection (b) shall maintain
 at its corporate offices a current list of the authorized distributors of
 record of such drug.'; and
 (4) in subsection (e)(4) (as so redesignated by section 2(c)), by inserting
 before the dash the following: `and subsection (d)'.
SEC. 5. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT.
 Section 801(d)(1) (21 U.S.C. 381(d)(1)) is amended by striking out `person
 who manufactured' and inserting in lieu thereof `manufacturer of'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.