 
--S.3134--
S.3134
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To expand the production and distribution of educational and instructional
video programming and supporting educational materials for preschool and
elementary school children as a tool to improve school readiness, to develop
and distribute educational and instructional video programming and support
materials for parents, child care providers, and educators of young children,
to expand services provided by Head Start programs, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Ready to Learn Act'.
SEC. 2. PURPOSE.
  It is the purpose of this Act to--
  (1) expand the availability of educational and instructional video
  programming and supporting educational resources for preschool and elementary
  school children and their parents as a tool to improve school readiness
  and literacy; and
  (2) to develop and distribute educational and instructional video programming
  and support materials for parents, child care providers, and educators of
  young children.
SEC. 3. READY TO LEARN PROGRAMS.
  The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 is amended by adding
  after part F of title IV the following:
`PART G--READY TO LEARN TELEVISION
`SEC. 4701. READY TO LEARN.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary is authorized to enter into contracts,
  cooperative agreements, or grants with entities described in section 4702(b)
  to develop, produce, and distribute educational and instructional video
  programming for preschool and elementary school children and their parents
  in order to facilitate the achievement of the national education goals.
  `(b) AVAILABILITY- In making such contracts, cooperative agreements,
  or grants, the Secretary shall ensure that recipients make programming
  widely available with support materials as appropriate to young children,
  their parents, child care workers, and Head Start providers to increase
  the effective use of such programming.
`SEC. 4702. EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMING.
  `(a) AWARDS- The Secretary shall award contracts, cooperative agreements,
  or grants to eligible entities to--
  `(1) facilitate the development directly or through contracts with
  producers of children and family educational television programming,
  educational programming for preschool and elementary school children,
  and accompanying support materials and services that promote the effective
  use of such programming; and
  `(2) contract with entities (such as public broadcasting entities and
  those funded under the Star Schools Assistance Act) in order that programs
  developed under this section are disseminated and distributed to the widest
  possible audience appropriate to be served by the programming by the most
  appropriate distribution technologies.
  `(b) ELIGIBLE ENTITIES- To be eligible to receive a contract, cooperative
  agreement, or grant under subsection (a), an entity shall be--
  `(1) a nonprofit, nongovernmental entity able to demonstrate a capacity for
  the development and distribution of educational and instructional television
  programming of high quality for preschool and elementary school children; and
  `(2) able to demonstrate a capacity to contract with the producers of
  children's television programming for the purpose of developing educational
  television programming of high quality for preschool and elementary school
  children.
  `(c) CULTURAL EXPERIENCES- Programming developed under this section shall
  reflect the recognition of diverse cultural experiences and the needs and
  experiences of both boys and girls in engaging and preparing young children
  for schooling.
`SEC. 4703. DUTIES OF SECRETARY.
  `The Secretary is authorized--
   `(1) to establish and administer a Special Projects of National Significance
   program to award contracts, cooperative agreements, or grants to public
   and nonprofit private entities, or local public television stations or such
   public television stations that are part of a consortium with one or more
   State educational agencies, local educational agencies, local schools,
   institutions of higher education, or community-based organizations of
   demonstrated effectiveness, for the purpose of--
  `(A) addressing the learning needs of young children in limited English
  proficient households, and developing appropriate educational and
  instructional television programming to foster the school readiness of
  such children;
  `(B) developing programming and support materials to increase family literacy
  skills among parents to assist parents in teaching their children and
  utilizing educational television programming to promote school readiness; and
  `(C) identifying, supporting, and enhancing the effective use and outreach
  of innovative programs that promote school readiness;
  `(2) to establish within the Department a clearinghouse to compile and
  provide information, referrals and model program materials and programming
  obtained or developed under this part to parents, child care providers,
  and other appropriate individuals or entities to assist such individuals
  and entities in accessing programs and projects under this part; and
  `(3) to develop and disseminate training materials, including--
  `(A) interactive programs and programs adaptable to distance learning
  technologies that are designed to enhance knowledge of children's social
  and cognitive skill development and positive adult-child interactions; and
  `(B) support materials to promote the effective use of materials developed
  under paragraph (2);
among parents, Head Start providers, in-home and center based day care
providers, early childhood development personnel, and elementary school
teachers, public libraries, and after school program personnel caring for
preschool and elementary school children;
  `(4) coordinate activities with the Secretary of Health and Human Services
  in order to--
  `(A) maximize the utilization of quality educational programming by preschool
  and elementary school children, and make such programming widely available
  to federally funded programs serving such populations; and
  `(B) provide information to grantees of Federal programs that have major
  training components for early childhood development, including Head
  Start, Even Start, and State training activities funded under the Child
  Care Development Block Grant Act of 1990 regarding the availability and
  utilization of materials developed under paragraph (3) to enhance parent
  and child care provider skills in early childhood development and education.
`SEC. 4704. APPLICATIONS.
  `Each eligible entity desiring a contract, cooperative agreement, or grant
  under section 4701 or 4703 shall submit an application to the Secretary
  at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the
  Secretary may reasonably require.
`SEC. 4705. REPORTS AND EVALUATION.
  `(a) ANNUAL REPORT TO SECRETARY- An entity receiving funds under section
  4701 shall prepare and submit to the Secretary an annual report which
  contains such information as the Secretary may require. At a minimum,
  the report shall describe the program activities undertaken with funds
  received under this section, including--
  `(1) the programming that has been developed directly or indirectly by
  the entity, and the target population of the programs developed;
  `(2) the support materials that have been developed to accompany the
  programming, and the method by which such materials are distributed to
  consumers and users of the programming;
  `(3) the means by which programming developed under this section has been
  distributed, including the distance learning technologies that have been
  utilized to make programming available and the geographic distribution
  achieved through such technologies; and
  `(4) the initiatives undertaken by the entity to develop public-private
  partnerships to secure non-Federal support for the development and
  distribution and broadcast of educational and instructional programming.
  `(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS- The Secretary shall prepare and submit to the
  relevant committees of Congress a biannual report which  includes--
  `(1) a summary of the information made available under section 4702(a);
  `(2) a description of the training materials made available under section
  4703(3), the manner in which outreach has been conducted to inform parents
  and child care providers of the availability of such materials, and the
  manner in which such materials have been distributed in accordance with
  such section.
`SEC. 4706. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this
  part, $25,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, and such sums as may be necessary for
  fiscal year 1994. Not less than 60 percent of the amounts appropriated under
  this subsection for each fiscal year shall be used to carry out section 4702.
  `(b) SPECIAL PROJECTS- Of the amount appropriated under subsection (1)
  for each fiscal year, at least 10 percent of such amount shall be utilized
  in each such fiscal year for activities under section 4703(1)(C).
`SEC. 4707. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.
  `With respect to the implementation of section 4702, entities receiving
  a contract, cooperative agreement, or grant from the Secretary may use up
  to 5 percent of the amounts received under such section for the normal and
  customary expenses of administering the contract, cooperative agreement,
  or grant.
`SEC. 4708. DEFINITION.
  `For the purposes of this part, the term `distance learning' means the
  transmission of educational or instructional programming to geographically
  dispersed individuals and groups via telecommunications.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.