 
--S.3309--
S.3309
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To  amend the Peace Corps Act to authorize appropriations for the Peace
Corps for fiscal year 1993 and to establish a Peace Corps foreign exchange
fluctuations account, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 3(b) of the Peace Corps Act (22 U.S.C. 2502(b)) is amended to read
  as follows:
  `(b) AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be
  appropriated to carry out the purposes of this Act $218,146,000 for fiscal
  year 1993, which are authorized to remain available until September 30,
  1994.'.
SEC. 2. PEACE CORPS FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT- The Peace Corps
  Act (22 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 15 the
  following new section:
`SEC. 16. FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS ACCOUNT.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- (1) There is established in the Treasury of the United
  States an account to be known as the `Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace
  Corps, Account'. The account shall be used for the purpose of providing
  funds to pay expenses for operations of the Peace Corps outside the United
  States which, as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates,
  exceed the amount appropriated for such expenses.
  `(2) Funds in the account may be transferred, upon the certification of
  the Director of the Peace Corps (or the Director's designee) that the
  transfer is necessary for the purpose specified in paragraph (1), to the
  account containing funds appropriated for the expenses of the Peace Corps.
  `(b) USE OF FUNDS IN THE ACCOUNT- Funds transferred under subsection (a)
  shall be merged with, and be available for the same time period, as the
  appropriation to which they are applied. Notwithstanding any provision
  of law limiting the amount of funds the Peace Corps may obligate in any
  fiscal year, such amount shall be increased to the extent necessary to
  reflect fluctuations in exchange rates from those used in preparing the
  budget submission.
  `(c) EXCHANGE RATES APPLICABLE TO OBLIGATIONS- An obligation of the
  Peace Corps payable in the currency of a foreign country may be recorded
  as an obligation based upon exchange rates used in preparing a budget
  submission. A change reflecting fluctuations in exchange rates may be
  recorded as a disbursement is made.
  `(d) TRANSFERS BACK TO ACCOUNT- Funds transferred from the Foreign Currency
  Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account may be transferred back to that account--
  `(1) if the funds are not needed to pay obligations incurred because
  of fluctuations in currency exchange rates of foreign countries in the
  appropriation to which the funds were originally transferred; or
  `(2) because of subsequent favorable fluctuations in the rates or because
  other funds are, or become, available to pay such obligations.
  `(e) LIMITATION ON TRANSFERS BACK- A transfer of funds back to the account
  under subsection (d) may not be made after the end of the fiscal year or
  other period for which the appropriation, to which the funds were originally
  transferred, is available for obligation.
  `(f) TRANSFERS TO THE ACCOUNT FROM REGULAR APPROPRIATIONS- (1) At the
  end of the fiscal year or other period for which appropriations for the
  expenses of the Peace Corps are made available, unobligated balances of such
  appropriation may be transferred into the Foreign Currency Fluctuations,
  Peace Corps, Account, to be merged with, and to be available for the same
  period and purposes as, that account.
  `(2) The authority of this subsection shall be exercised only to the extent
  that specific amounts are provided in advance in an appropriation Act.
  `(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
  to the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Peace Corps, Account for each fiscal
  year such sums as may be necessary to maintain a balance of $5,000,000 in
  such account at the beginning of such fiscal year.
  `(h) REPORTS- Each year the Director of the Peace Corps shall submit to
  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of
  the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on Foreign Relations
  and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, a report on funds
  transferred under this section.'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendment made by subsection (a) applies with
  respect to each fiscal year after fiscal year 1992.
SEC. 3. EVALUATION OF HEALTH-CARE SERVICES PROVIDED TO PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The Director of the Peace Corps shall contract with an
  eligible organization or organizations to conduct before January 1, 1997,
  a total of three evaluations of the health-care needs of the Peace Corps
  volunteers and the adequacy of the system through which the Peace Corps
  provides health-care services in meeting those needs.
  (b) REQUIREMENTS OF THE EVALUATIONS- Each evaluation shall include an
  assessment of the adequacy of the Peace Corps health-care system--
  (1) to provide diagnostic, treatment, and referral services to meet the
  health-care needs of Peace Corps volunteers, and
  (2) to conduct health examinations of applicants for enrollment as Peace
  Corps volunteers and to provide immunization and dental care preparatory
  to service of applicants for enrollment who have accepted an invitation
  to begin a period of training for service as a Peace Corps volunteer.
  (c) REPORTS TO THE PEACE CORPS- An organization making an evaluation
  under this section shall submit to the Director of the Peace Corps a
  report containing its findings and recommendations not later than May 31,
  1993, December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1996, as the case may be. Each
  report shall include recommendations regarding appropriate standards and
  procedures for ensuring the furnishing of quality medical care and for
  measuring the quality of care provided to Peace Corps volunteers.
  (d) REPORT TO CONGRESS- Not later than 90 days after receipt of a report
  required by subsection (c), the Director of the Peace Corps shall transmit
  the report, together with the Director's comments, to the appropriate
  congressional committees.
  (e) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
  and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations
  of the House of Representatives; and
  (2) the term `eligible organization' means an independent health-care
  accreditation organization or other independent organization with expertise
  in evaluating health-care systems similar to that of the Peace Corps.
SEC. 4. REPORTING REQUIREMENT ON EMPLOYMENT-RELATED MATTERS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than May 31, 1992, the Director of the Peace
  Corps and the Secretary of Labor shall jointly submit to the appropriate
  congressional committees a report which describes--
  (1) the information provided by the Peace Corps to its volunteers and to
  applicants for volunteer service in the Peace Corps regarding the benefits
  and services to which Peace Corps volunteers or trainees may be entitled
  or for which they may be eligible in the event that they sustain injuries
  or become disabled during their service, or their training for service,
  with the Peace Corps;
  (2) the efforts by the Peace Corps and the Department of Labor to coordinate
  the provision of such information to Peace Corps volunteer-applicants and
  volunteers and the processing of claims by Peace Corps volunteers under
  the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA);
  (3) the number of Peace Corps volunteers and volunteer-applicants who
  have filed claims under the Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA)
  and the percentage of the claims that have been approved; and
  (4) the timeliness of approvals or denials of claims of Peace Corps
  volunteers and volunteer-applicants under the Federal Employees Compensation
  Act (FECA).
  (b) RECOMMENDATIONS- The report required by subsection (a) shall also
  include such recommendations as the Director of the Peace Corps and the
  Secretary of Labor may determine necessary to facilitate the filing and
  processing of claims by Peace Corps volunteers regarding the benefits
  described in that subsection.
  (c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `appropriate congressional committees' means the Committee
  on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
  and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations
  of the House of Representatives; and
  (2) the term `Federal Employees Compensation Act (FECA)' means chapter 81
  of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 5. PEACE CORPS PROGRAMS IN THE FORMER SOVIET UNION.
  (a) AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS- Up to $6,000,000 of the funds made available
  to carry out the Peace Corps Act for fiscal year 1993 shall be made
  available for establishing Small Business Development Programs in the
  independent states of the former Soviet Union. The programs shall include the
  promotion of local economic development by providing technical assistance
  and training in municipal restructuring and financing, privatization,
  valuation of state-owned enterprises, the development and promotion of
  business associations, and the identification of investment opportunities
  and requirements.
  (b) DEFINITION- For purposes of this section, the term `independent
  states of the former Soviet Union' means the following (which formerly
  were part of the Soviet Union): Armenia, Azerbaijan, Byelarus, Georgia,
  Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine,
  and Uzbekistan.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.