 
--S.3312--
S.3312
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
Entitled the `Cancer Registries Amendment Act'.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Cancer Registries Amendment Act'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
  (a) FINDINGS- Congress finds that--
  (1) cancer control efforts, including prevention and early detection,
  are best addressed locally by State health departments that can identify
  unique needs;
  (2) cancer control programs and existing statewide population-based cancer
  registries have identified cancer incidence and cancer mortality rates
  that indicate the burden of cancer for Americans is substantial and varies
  widely by geographic location and by ethnicity;
  (3) statewide cancer incidence and cancer mortality data, can be used
  to identify cancer trends, patterns, and variation for directing cancer
  control intervention;
  (4) the American Association of Central Cancer Registries (AACCR) cites
  that of the 50 States, approximately 38 have established cancer registries,
  many are not statewide and 10 have no cancer registry; and
  (5) AACCR also cites that of the 50 States, 39 collect data on less than
  100 percent of their population, and less than half have adequate resources
  for insuring minimum standards for quality and for completeness of case
  information.
  (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to establish a national program
  of cancer registries.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL PROGRAM OF CANCER REGISTRIES.
  Title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.) is
  amended by adding at the end the following new part:
`Part M--National Program of Cancer Registries
`SEC. 399H. NATIONAL PROGRAM OF CANCER REGISTRIES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers
  for Disease Control, may make grants to States, or may make grants or
  enter into contracts with academic or nonprofit organizations designated
  by the State to operate the State's cancer registry in lieu of making a
  grant directly to the State, to support the operation of population-based,
  statewide cancer registries in order to collect, for each form of in-situ
  and invasive cancer (with the exception of basal cell and squamous cell
  carcinoma of the skin), data concerning--
  `(1) demographic information about each case of cancer;
  `(2) information on the industrial or occupational history of the individuals
  with the cancers, to the extent such information is available from the
  same record;
  `(3) administrative information, including date of diagnosis and source
  of information;
  `(4) pathological data characterizing the cancer, including the cancer
  site, stage of disease (pursuant to Staging Guide), incidence, and type
  of treatment; and
  `(5) other elements determined appropriate by the Secretary.
  `(b) MATCHING FUNDS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a) only
  if the State, or the academic or nonprofit private organization designated
  by the State to operate the cancer registry of the State, involved agrees,
  with respect to the costs of the program, to make available (directly or
  through donations from public or private entities) non-Federal contributions
  toward such costs in an amount that is not less than 25 percent of such
  costs or $1 for every $3 of Federal funds provided in the grant.
  `(2) DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT OF NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTION; MAINTENANCE
  OF EFFORT-
  `(A) Non-Federal contributions required in paragraph (1) may be in cash or
  in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services. Amounts
  provided by the Federal Government, or services assisted or subsidized to
  any significant extent by the Federal Government, may not be included in
  determining the amount of such non-Federal contributions.
  `(B) With respect to a State in which the purpose described in subsection
  (a) is to be carried out, the Secretary, in making a determination of
  the amount  of non-Federal contributions provided under paragraph (1),
  may include only such contributions as are in excess of the amount of such
  contributions made by the State toward the collection of data on cancer for
  the fiscal year preceding the first year for which a grant under subsection
  (a) is made with respect to the State.  The Secretary may decrease the
  amount of non-Federal contributions that otherwise would have been required
  by this subsection in those cases in which the State can demonstrate that
  decreasing such amount is appropriate because of financial hardship.
  `(c) ELIGIBILITY FOR GRANTS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- No grant shall be made by the Secretary under subsection
  (a) unless an application has been submitted to, and approved by, the
  Secretary. Such application shall be in such form, submitted in such
  a manner, and be accompanied by such information, as the Secretary
  may specify. No such application may be approved unless it contains
  assurances that the applicant will use the funds provided only for the
  purposes specified in the approved application and in accordance with the
  requirements of this section, that the application will establish such
  fiscal control and fund accounting procedures as may be necessary to assure
  proper disbursement and accounting of Federal funds paid to the applicant
  under subsection (a) of this section, and that the applicant will comply
  with the peer review requirements under sections 491 and 492.
  `(2) ASSURANCES- Each applicant, prior to receiving Federal funds under
  subsection (a), shall provide assurances satisfactory to the Secretary
  that the applicant will--
  `(A) provide for the establishment of a registry in accordance with
  subsection (a);
  `(B) comply with appropriate standards of completeness, timeliness, and
  quality of population-based cancer registry data;
  `(C) provide for the annual publication of reports of cancer data under
  subsection (a); and
  `(D) provide for the authorization under State law of the statewide cancer
  registry, including promulgation of regulations providing--
  `(i) a means to assure complete reporting of cancer cases (as described
  in subsection (a)) to the statewide cancer registry by hospitals or other
  facilities providing screening, diagnostic or therapeutic services to
  patients with respect to cancer;
  `(ii) a means to assure the complete reporting of cancer cases (as defined
  in subsection (a)) to the statewide cancer registry by physicians, surgeons,
  and all other health care practitioners diagnosing or providing treatment
  for cancer patients, except for cases directly referred to or previously
  admitted to a hospital or other facility providing screening, diagnostic
  or therapeutic services to patients in that State and reported by those
  facilities;
  `(iii) a means for the statewide cancer registry to access all records of
  physicians and surgeons, hospitals, outpatient clinics, nursing homes, and
  all other facilities, individuals, or agencies providing such services
  to patients which would identify cases of cancer or would establish
  characteristics of the cancer, treatment of the cancer, or medical status
  of any identified patient;
  `(iv) for the reporting of cancer case data to the statewide cancer registry
  in such a format, with such data elements, and in accordance with such
  standards of quality timeliness and completeness, as may be established
  by the Secretary;
  `(v) for the protection of the confidentiality of all cancer case data
  reported to the statewide cancer registry, including a prohibition on
  disclosure to any person of information reported to the statewide cancer
  registry that identifies, or could lead to the identification of, an
  individual cancer patient, except for disclosure to other State cancer
  registries and local and State health officers;
  `(vi) for a means by which confidential case data may in accordance with
  State law be disclosed to cancer researchers for the purposes of cancer
  prevention, control and research;
  `(vii) for the authorization or the conduct, by the statewide cancer registry
  or other persons and organizations, of studies utilizing statewide cancer
  registry data, including studies of the sources and causes of cancer,
  evaluations of the cost, quality, efficacy, and appropriateness of
  diagnostic, therapeutic, rehabilitative, and preventative services and
  programs relating to cancer, and any other clinical, epidemiological,
  or other cancer research; and
  `(viii) for protection for individuals complying with the law, including
  provisions specifying that no person shall be held liable in any civil
  action with respect to a cancer case report provided to the statewide
  cancer registry, or with respect to access to cancer case information
  provided to the statewide cancer registry.
  `(d) RELATIONSHIP TO CERTAIN PROGRAMS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- This section may not be construed to act as a replacement
  for or diminishment of the program carried out by the Director of
  the National Cancer Institute and designated by such Director as the
  Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER).
  `(2) SUPPLANTING OF ACTIVITIES- In areas where both such programs exist,
  the Secretary shall ensure that SEER support is not supplanted and that
  any additional activities are consistent with the guidelines provided for
  in subsection (c)(2) (C) and (D) and are appropriately coordinated with
  the existing SEER program.
  `(3) TRANSFER OF RESPONSIBILITY- The Secretary may not transfer
  administration responsibility for such SEER program from such Director.
  `(4) COORDINATION- To encourage the greatest possible efficiency and
  effectiveness of Federally supported efforts with respect to the activities
  described in this subsection, the Secretary shall take steps to assure
  the appropriate coordination of programs supported under this part with
  existing Federally supported cancer registry programs.
  `(e) REQUIREMENT REGARDING CERTAIN STUDY ON BREAST CANCER- In the case of
  a grant under subsection (a) to any State specified in section 399K(b),
  the Secretary may establish such conditions regarding the receipt of the
  grant as the Secretary determines are necessary to facilitate the collection
  of data for the study carried out under section 399C.
`SEC. 399I. PLANNING GRANTS REGARDING REGISTRIES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL-
  `(1) STATES- The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for
  Disease Control, may make grants to States for the purpose of developing
  plans that meet the assurances required by the Secretary under section
  399B(c)(2).
  `(2) OTHER ENTITIES- For the purpose described in paragraph (1), the
  Secretary may make grants to public entities other than States  and to
  nonprofit private entities. Such a grant may be made to an entity only
  if the State in which the purpose is to be carried out has certified that
  the State approves the entity as qualified to carry out the purpose.
  `(b) APPLICATION- The Secretary may make a grant under subsection (a)
  only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary, the
  application contains the certification required in subsection (a)(2) (if
  the application is for a grant under such subsection), and the application
  is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements,
  assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary
  to carry out this section.
`SEC. 399J. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN OPERATIONS OF STATEWIDE CANCER REGISTRIES.
  `The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease
  Control, may, directly or through grants and contracts, or both, provide
  technical assistance to the States in the establishment and operation of
  statewide registries, including assistance in the development of model
  legislation for statewide cancer registries and assistance in establishing
  a computerized reporting and data processing system.
`SEC. 399K. STUDY IN CERTAIN STATES TO DETERMINE THE FACTORS CONTRIBUTING
TO THE ELEVATED BREAST CANCER MORTALITY RATES.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to subsections (c) and (d), the Secretary, acting
  through the Director of the National Cancer Institute, shall conduct a
  study for the purpose of determining the factors contributing to the fact
  that breast cancer mortality rates in the States specified in subsection
  (b) are elevated compared to rates in other States.
  `(b) RELEVANT STATES- The States referred to in subsection (a) are
  Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey,
  New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, and the District of Columbia.
  `(c) COOPERATION OF STATE- The Secretary may conduct the study required
  in subsection (a) in a State only if the State agrees to cooperate with
  the Secretary in the conduct of the study, including providing information
  from any registry operated by the State pursuant to section 399H(a).
  `(d) PLANNING, COMMENCEMENT, AND DURATION- The Secretary shall, during
  each of the fiscal years 1993 and 1994, develop a plan for conducting
  the study required in subsection (a). The study shall be initiated by
  the Secretary not later than fiscal year 1994, and the collection of data
  under the study may continue through fiscal year 1998.
  `(e) REPORT- Not later than September 30, 1999, the Secretary shall complete
  the study required in subsection (a) and submit to the Committee on Energy
  and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and to the Committee on
  Labor and Human Resources of the Senate, a report describing the findings
  and recommendations made as a result of the study.
`SEC. 399L. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  `(a) REGISTRIES- For the purpose of carrying out this part, the Secretary
  may use $30,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1993 through 1997. Out
  of any amounts used for any such fiscal year, the Secretary may obligate
  not more than 25 percent for carrying out section 399I, and not more than
  10 percent may be expended for assessing the accuracy, completeness and
  quality of data collected, and not more than 10 percent of which is to be
  expended under subsection 399J.
  `(b) BREAST CANCER STUDY- Of the amounts appropriated for the National
  Cancer Institute under subpart 1 of part C of title IV for any fiscal
  year in which the study required in section 399K is being carried out,
  the Secretary shall expend not less than $1,000,000 for the study.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.