 
--S.347--
S.347
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Defense Production Act of 1950 to revitalize the defense
industrial
base of the United States, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Defense Production Act
  Amendments of 1992'.
  (b) Table of Contents-
Section 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950
Part A--Declaration of Policy
Sec. 101. Declaration of policy.
Part B--Amendments to Title I of the Defense Production Act
Sec. 111. Strengthening of domestic capability and assistance for small
businesses.
Sec. 112. Limitation on actions without congressional authorization.
Part C--Amendments to Title III of the Defense Production Act
Sec. 121. Expanding the reach of existing authorities under title III.
Sec. 122. Defense Production Act Fund.
Sec. 123. Declaration of offset policy.
Sec. 124. Annual report on impact of offsets.
Sec. 125. Civil-military integration.
Sec. 126. Testing, qualification, and use of industrial resources developed
under title III projects.
Part D--Amendments to Title VII of the Defense Production Act
Sec. 131. Small business.
Sec. 132. Definitions.
Sec. 133. Appointment of personnel.
Sec. 134. Regulations and orders.
Sec. 135. Information on the defense industrial base.
Sec. 136. Public participation in rulemaking.
Part E--Technical Amendments
Sec. 141. Technical correction.
Sec. 142. Investigations; records; reports; subpoenas.
Sec. 143. Employment of personnel.
Sec. 144. Technical correction.
Part F--Repealers and Conforming Amendments
Sec. 151. Synthetic fuel action.
Sec. 152. Repeal of interest payment provisions.
Sec. 153. Joint Committee on Defense Production.
Sec. 154. Persons disqualified for employment.
Sec. 155. Feasibility study on uniform cost accounting standards; report
submitted.
Sec. 156. National commission on supplies and shortages.
Part G--Reauthorization of Selected Provisions
Sec. 161. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 162. Extension of program.
Sec. 163. Presidential study.
TITLE II--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS TO IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
Sec. 201. Discouraging unfair trade practices.
Sec. 202. Fraudulent use of `Made in America' labels.
Sec. 203. Evaluation of domestic defense industrial base policy.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 301. Energy security.
Sec. 302. Domestic retail deposit-taking by foreign banks.
Sec. 303. Deposit insurance assessment rates for lifeline account deposits.
Sec. 304. Effective date.
Sec. 305. Provisional repeal of duplicative provisions.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT OF 1950
PART A--DECLARATION OF POLICY
SEC. 101. DECLARATION OF POLICY.
  Section 2 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2062)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY.
  `(a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
  `(1) the vitality of the industrial and technology base of the United
  States is a foundation of national security that provides the industrial and
  technological capabilities employed to meet national defense requirements,
  in peacetime and in time of national emergency;
  `(2) in peacetime, the health of the industrial and technological base
  contributes to the technological superiority of United States defense
  equipment, which is a cornerstone of the national security strategy,
  and the efficiency with which defense equipment is developed and produced;
  `(3) in times of crisis, a healthy industrial base will be able to
  effectively provide the graduated response needed to effectively meet the
  demands of the emergency;
  `(4) in view of continuing international problems, the Nation's demonstrated
  reliance on imports of materials and components, and the need for measures to
  reduce defense production lead times and bottlenecks, and in order to provide
  for the national defense and national security, the United States defense
  mobilization preparedness effort continues to require the development of--
  `(A) preparedness programs;
  `(B) domestic defense industrial base improvement measures;
  `(C) provisions for a graduated response to any threatening international
  or military situation;
  `(D) the expansion of domestic productive capacity beyond the levels needed
  to meet the civilian demand; and
  `(E) some diversion of certain materials and facilities from civilian use
  to military and related purposes.
  `(5) to meet the requirements referred to in this subsection, this
  Act affords to the President an array of authorities to shape defense
  preparedness programs and to take appropriate steps to maintain and enhance
  the defense industrial and technological base;
  `(6) the activities referred to in this subsection are needed in order to--
  `(A) improve domestic defense industrial base efficiency and responsiveness;
  `(B) reduce the time required for industrial mobilization in the event of
  an attack on the United States; or
  `(C) to respond to actions occurring outside of the United States which
  could result in the termination or reduction of the availability of strategic
  and critical materials, including energy, and which could adversely affect
  the national defense preparedness of the United States;
  `(7) in order to ensure national defense preparedness, which is essential to
  national security, it is necessary and appropriate to assure the availability
  of domestic energy supplies for national defense needs;
  `(8) to further assure the adequate maintenance of the defense industrial
  base, to the maximum extent possible, such supplies should be augmented
  through reliance on renewable fuels, including solar, geothermal, and wind
  energy and ethanol and its derivatives, and on energy conservation measures;
  `(9) the domestic defense industrial base is a component part of the core
  industrial capacity of the Nation;
  `(10) much of the industrial capacity which is relied upon by the Federal
  Government for military production and other defense-related purposes is
  deeply and directly influenced by--
  `(A) the overall competitiveness of the United States industrial economy; and
  `(B) the ability of United States industry, in general, to produce
  internationally competitive products and operate profitably while maintaining
  adequate research and development to preserve that competitive edge in
  the future, with respect to military and civilian production;
  `(11) the domestic defense industrial base is developing a growing
  dependency on foreign sources for critical components and materials used in
  manufacturing and assembling major weapons systems for the national defense;
  `(12) such dependence is threatening the capability of many critical
  industries to respond rapidly to defense production needs in the event of
  war or other hostilities or diplomatic confrontation; and
  `(13) the inability of United States industry, especially smaller
  subcontractors and suppliers, to provide vital parts and components and
  other materials would impair our ability to sustain United States Armed
  Forces in combat for longer than a short period.
  `(b) STATEMENT OF POLICY- It is the policy of the United States that--
  `(1) in order to ensure productive capacity in the event of an attack
  on the United States, the United States should encourage the geographic
  dispersal of industrial facilities in the United States to discourage
  the concentration of such productive facilities within limited geographic
  areas which are vulnerable to attack by an enemy of the United States;
  `(2) to ensure that essential mobilization requirements are met,
  consideration should also be given to stockpiling strategic materials to
  the extent that such stockpiling is economical and feasible;
  `(3) in the construction of any Government-owned industrial facility, in
  the rendition of any Government financial assistance for the construction,
  expansion, or improvement of any industrial facility, and in the production
  of goods and services, under this or any other Act, each department and
  agency of the executive branch should apply, under the coordination of the
  Federal Emergency Management Agency, when practicable and consistent with
  existing law and the desirability for maintaining a sound economy, the
  principle of the geographic dispersal of such facilities in the interest
  of national defense, except that nothing in this paragraph shall preclude
  the use of existing industrial facilities;
  `(4) to ensure the adequacy of productive capacity and supply, executive
  agencies and departments responsible for defense acquisition should
  continuously assess the capability of the domestic defense industrial
  base to satisfy peacetime requirements as well as increased mobilization
  production requirements, specifically evaluating the availability of
  adequate production sources, including subcontractors and suppliers,
  materials, skilled labor, and professional and technical personnel;
  `(5) every effort should be made to foster cooperation between the defense
  and commercial sectors for research and development and for acquisition
  of materials, components, and equipment; and
  `(6) plans and programs to carry out this section shall be undertaken with
  due consideration for promoting efficiency and competition.'.
PART B--AMENDMENTS TO TITLE I OF THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT
SEC. 111. STRENGTHENING OF DOMESTIC CAPABILITY AND ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES.
  Title I of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2071, et
  seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new sections:
`SEC. 107. STRENGTHENING DOMESTIC CAPABILITY.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Utilizing the authority of title III of this Act or any
  other provision of law, the President may provide appropriate incentives
  to develop, maintain, modernize, and expand the productive capacities of
  domestic sources for critical components, critical technology items, and
  industrial resources essential for the execution of the national security
  strategy of the United States.
  `(b) CRITICAL COMPONENTS AND CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY ITEMS-
  `(1) IDENTIFICATION-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The President, acting through the Secretary of Defense,
  shall identify critical components and critical technology items for each
  item on the Critical Items List of the Commanders-in-Chief of the Unified
  and Specified Commands and other items within the inventory of weapon
  systems and defense equipment.
  `(B) DEFINITION- Any component identified as critical by a National Security
  Assessment conducted pursuant to section 113(i) of title 10, United States
  Code, or by a Presidential determination as a result of a petition filed
  under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 shall be designated
  as a critical component for purposes of this Act, unless the President
  determines that the designation is unwarranted.
  `(2) MAINTENANCE OF RELIABLE SOURCES OF SUPPLY- The President shall
  take appropriate actions to assure that critical components or critical
  technology items are available from reliable sources when needed to meet
  defense requirements during peacetime, graduated mobilization, and national
  emergency.
  `(3) APPROPRIATE ACTION- For purposes of this subsection, appropriate
  action may include--
  `(A) restricting contract solicitations to reliable sources;
  `(B) restricting contract solicitations to domestic sources pursuant to--
  `(i) section 2304(b)(1)(B) or section 2304(c)(3) of title 10, United
  States Code;
  `(ii) section 303(b)(1)(B) or section 303(c)(3) of the Federal Property
  and Administrative Services Act of 1949; or
  `(iii) other statutory authority;
  `(C) stockpiling critical components; and
  `(D) developing substitutes for a critical component or a critical
  technology item.
`SEC. 108. MODERNIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS SUPPLIERS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- In providing any assistance under this Act, the President
  shall accord a strong preference for small business concerns which are
  subcontractors or suppliers, and, to the maximum extent practicable,
  to such small business concerns located in areas of high unemployment or
  areas that have demonstrated a continuing pattern of economic decline,
  as identified by the Secretary of Labor.
  `(b) MODERNIZATION OF EQUIPMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Funds authorized under title III may be used to guarantee
  the purchase or lease of advance manufacturing equipment, and any related
  services with respect to any such equipment for purposes of this Act.
  `(2) SMALL BUSINESS SUPPLIERS- In considering proposals for title III
  projects under paragraph (1), the President shall provide a strong preference
  for proposals submitted by a small business supplier or subcontractor
  whose proposal--
  `(A) has the support of the department or agency which will provide the
  guarantee;
  `(B) reflects that the small business concern has made arrangements to
  obtain qualified outside assistance to support the effective utilization
  of the advanced manufacturing equipment being proposed for installation; and
  `(C) meets the requirements of section 301, 302, or 303.'.
SEC. 112. LIMITATION ON ACTIONS WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION.
  Section 104 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2074)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 104. LIMITATION ON ACTIONS WITHOUT CONGRESSIONAL AUTHORIZATION.
  `(a) WAGE OR PRICE CONTROLS- No provision of this Act shall be interpreted
  as providing for the imposition of wage or price controls without the
  prior authorization of such action by a joint resolution of Congress.
  `(b) CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS- No provision of title I of this Act
  shall be exercised or interpreted to require action or compliance by any
  private person to assist in any way in the production of or other involvement
  in chemical or biological warfare capabilities, unless authorized by the
  President (or the President's designee who is serving in a position at level
  I of the Executive Schedule  in accordance with section 5312 of title 5,
  United States Code) without further redelegation.'.
PART C--AMENDMENTS TO TITLE III OF THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT
SEC. 121. EXPANDING THE REACH OF EXISTING AUTHORITIES UNDER TITLE III.
  (a) GUARANTEE AUTHORITY- Section 301 of the Defense Production Act of 1950
  (50 U.S.C. App. 2091) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `to expedite production and deliveries
  or services under Government contracts for the procurement of materials
  or the performance of services for the national defense' and inserting `to
  expedite or expand production and deliveries or services under Government
  contracts for the procurement of industrial resources or critical technology
  items essential to the national defense';
  (2) by amending subsection (a)(3)(A) to read as follows:
  `(A) the guaranteed contract or activity is for industrial resources or
  a critical technology item which is essential to the national defense;';
  (3) in subsection (a)(3)(B)--
  (A) by striking `Without' and inserting `without'; and
  (B) by striking `the capability for the needed material or service' and
  inserting `the needed industrial resources or critical technology item';
  (4) by amending subsection (a)(3)(D) to read as follows:
  `(D) the combination of the United States national defense demand and
  foreseeable nondefense demand is not less than the output of domestic
  industrial capability, as determined by the President, including the output
  to be established through the guarantee.';
  (5) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by striking `Except during periods of national
  emergency declared by the Congress or the President' and inserting `Except
  as provided in subparagraph (D)';
  (6) in subsection (e)(1)(C), by striking `$25,000,000' and inserting
  `$50,000,000'; and
  (7) subsection (e)(1), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(D) The requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) may be waived--
  `(i) during periods of national emergency declared by the Congress or the
  President; or
  `(ii) upon a determination by the President, on a nondelegable basis,
  that a specific guarantee is necessary to avert an industrial resource or
  critical technology shortfall that would severely impair national defense
  capability.'.
  (b) LOANS TO PRIVATE BUSINESS ENTERPRISES- Section 302 of the Defense
  Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2092) is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a), by striking `for the procurement of materials or
  the performance of services for the national defense' and inserting `for
  the procurement of industrial resources or a critical technology item for
  the national defense';
  (2) by amending subsection (b)(2)(D) to read as follows:
  `(D) the combination of the United States national defense demand and
  foreseeable nondefense demand is not less than the output of domestic
  industrial capability, as determined by the President, including the output
  to be established through the loan.';
  (3) in subsection (c)(1), by striking `No such loan may be made under
  this section, except during periods of national emergency declared by the
  Congress or the President' and inserting `Except as provided in paragraph
  (4), no loans may be made under this section';
  (4) in subsection (c)(3), by striking `$25,000,000' and inserting
  `$50,000,000'; or
  (5) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4) The requirements of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) may be waived--
  `(A) during periods of national emergency declared by the Congress or the
  President; and
  `(B) upon a determination by the President, on a nondelegable basis,
  that a specific guarantee is necessary to avert an industrial resource or
  critical technology shortfall that would severely impair national defense
  capability.'.
  (c) Purchases and Purchase Commitments-
  (1) IN GENERAL- Section 303(a) of the Defense Production Act of 1950
  (50 U.S.C. App. 2093(a)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(a) PRESIDENTIAL PROVISIONS-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- To assist in carrying out the objectives of this Act,
  the President may make provision--
  `(A) for purchases of or commitments to purchase an industrial resource
  or a critical technology item, for Government use or resale; and
  `(B) for the encouragement of exploration, development, and mining of
  critical and strategic materials, and other materials.
  `(2) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AGRICULTURAL COMMODITIES- Purchases for resale
  under this subsection shall not include that part of the supply of
  an agricultural commodity which is domestically produced, except to the
  extent that such domestically produced supply may be purchased for resale
  for industrial use or stockpiling.
  `(3) TERMS OF SALES- No commodity purchased under this subsection shall
  be sold at less than--
  `(A) the established ceiling price for such commodity, except that minerals,
  metals, and materials shall not be sold at less than the established
  ceiling price, or the current domestic market price, whichever is lower; or
  `(B) if no ceiling price has been established, the higher of--
  `(i) the current domestic market price for such commodity; or
  `(ii) the minimum sale price established for agricultural commodities
  owned or controlled by the Commodity Credit Corporation, as provided in
  section 407 of the Agricultural Act of 1949.
  `(4) DELIVERY DATES- No purchase or commitment to purchase any imported
  agricultural commodity shall specify a delivery date which is more than
  1 year after the expiration of this section.
  `(5) PRESIDENTIAL DETERMINATIONS- Except as provided in paragraph (7),
  the President may not execute a contract under this subsection unless the
  President determines that--
  `(A) the industrial resource or critical technology item is essential to
  the national defense;
  `(B) without Presidential action under the authority provided for in this
  section, United States industry cannot reasonably be expected to provide
  the capability for the needed industrial resource or critical technology
  item in a timely manner;
  `(C) purchases, purchase commitments, or other action pursuant to this
  section are the most cost-effective, expedient, and practical alternative
  method for meeting the need; and
  `(D) the combination of the United States national defense demand and
  foreseeable nondefense demand for the industrial resource or critical
  technology item is not less than the output of domestic industrial
  capability, as determined by the President, including the output to be
  established through the purchase, purchase commitment, or other action.
  `(6) IDENTIFICATION OF SHORTFALL-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (7), the President shall
  take no action under this section unless the industrial resource shortfall
  which such action is intended to correct has been identified in the Budget
  of the United States, or amendments thereto, submitted to the Congress
  and accompanied by a statement from the President demonstrating that the
  budget submission is in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (5).
  `(B) TIMING OF ACTION- Any such action may be taken only after 60 days
  have elapsed after such industrial resource shortfall has been identified
  pursuant to subparagraph (A).
  `(C) LIMITATION- If the taking of any action or actions under this section
  to correct an industrial resource shortfall would cause the aggregate
  outstanding amount of all such actions for such industrial resource
  shortfall to exceed $50,000,000, any such action or actions may be taken
  only if specifically authorized by law.
  `(7) WAIVER- The requirements of paragraphs (1) through (6) may be waived--
  `(A) during periods of national emergency declared by the Congress or the
  President; or
  `(B) upon a determination by the President, on a nondelegable basis,
  that a specific guarantee is necessary to avert an industrial resource or
  critical technology shortfall that would severely impair national defense
  capability.'.
  (2) PURCHASE PERIODS- Section 303(b) of the Defense Production Act of
  1950 (50 U.S.C. 2093(b)) is amended by striking `September 30, 1995'
  and inserting `a date that is not more than 10 years from the date such
  purchase, purchase commitment, or sale was initially made'.
  (d) DEVELOPING SUBSTITUTES- Section 303(g) of the Defense Production
  Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2093(g)) is amended by inserting before the
  period the following: `, critical components, critical technology items,
  and other industrial resources'.
SEC. 122. DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT FUND.
  Section 304 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2094)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 304. DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT FUND.
  `(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND- There is established in the Treasury of the
  United States a separate fund to be known as the Defense Production Act Fund
  (hereafter in this section referred to as `the Fund').
  `(b) MONEYS IN FUND- There shall be credited to the Fund--
  `(1) all moneys appropriated for the Fund, as authorized by section
  711(c); and
  `(2) all moneys received by the Fund on transactions entered into pursuant
  to section 303.
  `(c) USE OF FUND- The Fund shall be available to carry out the provisions
  and purposes of this title, subject to the limitations set forth in this
  Act and in appropriations Acts.
  `(d) DURATION OF FUND- Moneys in the Fund shall remain available until
  expended.
  `(e) FUND BALANCE- The Fund balance at the close of each fiscal year
  shall not exceed $400,000,000, excluding any moneys appropriated to the
  Fund during that fiscal year or obligated funds. If, at the close of any
  fiscal year, the Fund balance exceeds $400,000,000, the amount in excess
  of $400,000,000 shall be paid into the general fund of the Treasury.
  `(f) FUND MANAGER- The President shall designate a Fund manager. The duties
  of the Fund manager shall include--
  `(1) determining the liability of the Fund in accordance with subsection (g);
  `(2) ensuring the visibility and accountability of transactions engaged
  in through the Fund; and
  `(3) reporting to the Congress each year regarding activities of the Fund
  during the previous fiscal year.
  `(g) LIABILITIES AGAINST FUND- When any agreement entered into pursuant
  to this title after December 31, 1991, imposes any contingent liability
  upon the United States, such liability shall be considered an obligation
  against the Fund.'.
SEC. 123. DECLARATION OF OFFSET POLICY.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Recognizing that certain offsets for military exports
  are economically inefficient and market distorting, and mindful of the
  need to minimize the adverse effects of offsets in military exports while
  ensuring that the ability of United States firms to compete for military
  export sales is not undermined, it is the policy of the Congress that--
  (1) no agency of the United States Government shall encourage, enter
  directly into, or commit United States firms to any offset arrangement in
  connection with the sale of defense goods or services to foreign governments;
  (2) United States Government funds shall not be used to finance offsets
  in security assistance transactions, except in accordance with policies
  and procedures that were in existence on March 1, 1992;
  (3) nothing in this section shall prevent agencies of the United States
  Government from fulfilling obligations incurred through international
  agreements entered into before March 1, 1992; and
  (4) the decision whether to engage in offsets, and the responsibility
  for negotiating and implementing offset arrangements, reside with the
  companies involved.
  (b) PRESIDENTIAL APPROVAL OF EXCEPTIONS- It is the policy of the Congress
  that the President may approve an exception to the policy stated in
  subsection (a) after receiving the recommendation of the National Security
  Council.
  (c) CONSULTATION- It is the policy of the Congress that the President
  shall designate the Secretary of Defense to lead, in coordination with the
  Secretary of State, an interagency team to consult with foreign nations on
  limiting the adverse effects of offsets in defense procurement. The President
  shall transmit an annual report on the results of these consultations to
  the Congress as part of the report required under section 309(a) of the
  Defense Production Act of 1950.
SEC. 124. ANNUAL REPORT ON IMPACT OF OFFSETS.
  Section 309 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2099)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `(a) REPORT REQUIRED- Not later' and inserting: `(a)
  Annual Report on Impact of Offsets-
  `(1) REPORT REQUIRED- Not later';
  (B) by striking the second sentence; and
  (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE- The Secretary of Commerce
  (hereafter in this subsection referred to as `the Secretary') shall--
  `(A) prepare the report required by paragraph (1);
  `(B) consult with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the Treasury,
  the Secretary of State, and the United States Trade Representative in
  connection with the preparation of such report; and
  `(C) function as the President's Executive Agent for carrying out this
  section.';
  (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
  `(b) Interagency Studies and Related Data-
  `(1) PURPOSE OF REPORT- Each report required under subsection (a) shall
  identify the cumulative effects of offset agreements on--
  `(A) the full range of domestic defense productive capability (with
  special attention paid to the firms serving as lower-tier subcontractors
  or suppliers); and
  `(B) the domestic defense technology base as a consequence of the technology
  transfers associated with such offset agreements.
  `(2) USE OF DATA- Data developed or compiled by any agency while conducting
  any interagency study or other independent study or analysis shall be made
  available to the Secretary to facilitate the execution of the Secretary's
  responsibilities with respect to trade offset and countertrade policy
  development.'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
  `(c) Notice of Offset Agreements-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- If a United States firm enters into a contract for the
  sale of a weapon system or defense-related item to a foreign country or
  foreign firm and such contract is subject to an offset agreement exceeding
  $5,000,000 in value, such firm shall furnish to the official designated
  in the regulations promulgated pursuant to paragraph (2) information
  concerning such sale.
  `(2) REGULATIONS- The information to be furnished under paragraph
  (1) shall be prescribed in regulations promulgated by the Secretary.
  Such regulations shall provide protection from public disclosure for
  such information, unless public disclosure is subsequently specifically
  authorized by the firm furnishing the information.
  `(d) Contents of Report-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Each report under subsection (a) shall include--
  `(A) a net assessment of the elements of the industrial base and technology
  base covered by the report;
  `(B) recommendations for appropriate remedial action under the authority
  of this Act, or other law or regulations;
  `(C) a summary of the findings and recommendations of any interagency
  studies conducted during the reporting period under subsection (b);
  `(D) a summary of offset arrangements concluded during the reporting period
  for which information has been furnished pursuant to subsection (c); and
  `(E) a summary and analysis of any bilateral and multilateral negotiations
  relating to the use of offsets completed during the reporting period.
  `(2) ALTERNATIVE FINDINGS OR RECOMMENDATIONS- Each report required under
  this section shall include any alternative findings or recommendations
  offered by any departmental Secretary, agency head, or the United States
  Trade Representative to the Secretary.
  `(e) UTILIZATION OF ANNUAL REPORT IN NEGOTIATIONS- The findings and
  recommendations of the reports required by subsection (a), and any
  interagency reports and analyses shall be considered by representatives
  of the United States during bilateral and multilateral negotiations to
  minimize the adverse effects of offsets.'.
SEC. 125. CIVIL-MILITARY INTEGRATION.
  Title III of the Defense Production Act of 1950 is amended by adding at
  the end the following new section:
`SEC. 310. CIVIL-MILITARY INTEGRATION.
  `An important purpose of this title is the creation of production capacity
  that will remain economically viable after guarantees and other assistance
  provided under this title have expired.'.
SEC. 126. TESTING, QUALIFICATION, AND USE OF INDUSTRIAL RESOURCES DEVELOPED
UNDER TITLE III PROJECTS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this
  Act, the single governmentwide Federal Acquisition Regulation, referred
  to in section 25(c)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41
  U.S.C. 421(c)(1)) shall be amended to provide for testing and qualification
  (pursuant to subsection (b)) and use (pursuant to subsection (c)) of the
  industrial resources manufactured or developed with assistance provided
  under section 301, 302, or 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950.
  (b) TESTING AND QUALIFICATION- Any testing and qualification required
  for the use or incorporation of the industrial resource developed or
  manufactured with such assistance shall be undertaken upon the request
  of the title III project contractor and the costs of such testing and
  qualification shall be borne by the department or agency imposing the
  testing and qualification requirement.
  (c) USE- Upon qualification, the industrial resource shall be eligible for
  use with respect to the development and manufacture of a major system or
  an item of supply being undertaken by an executive agency.
  (d) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
  (1) the term `industrial resources' has the same meaning as in section
  702(11) of the Defense Production Act of 1950;
  (2) the term `item of supply' has the same meaning as in section 4(10)
  of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act;
  (3) the term `major system' has the same meaning as in section 4(9) of
  the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; and
  (4) the term `title III project contractor' means a contractor who has
  received assistance for the development or manufacture of an industrial
  resource under section 301, 302, or 303 of the Defense Production Act of
  1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2091-2093).
PART D--AMENDMENTS TO TITLE VII OF THE DEFENSE PRODUCTION ACT
SEC. 131. SMALL BUSINESS.
  Section 701 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2151)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 701. SMALL BUSINESS.
  `(a) PARTICIPATION- Small business concerns shall be given the maximum
  practicable opportunity to participate as contractors, and subcontractors
  at various tiers, in all programs to maintain and strengthen the Nation's
  industrial base and technology base undertaken pursuant to this Act.
  `(b) ADMINISTRATION OF ACT- In administering the programs, implementing
  regulations, policies, and procedures under this Act, requests, applications,
  or appeals from small business concerns shall, to the maximum extent
  practicable, be expeditiously handled.
  `(c) ADVISORY COMMITTEE PARTICIPATION- Representatives of small business
  concerns shall be afforded the maximum opportunity to participate in such
  advisory committees as may be established pursuant to this Act.
  `(d) INFORMATION- Information about this Act and activities undertaken in
  accordance with this Act shall be made available to small business concerns.
  `(e) ALLOCATIONS UNDER SECTION 101- Whenever the President makes
  a determination to exercise any authority to allocate any material
  pursuant to section 101, small business concerns shall be accorded, to
  the extent practicable, a fair share of such material, in proportion to
  the share received by such business concerns under normal conditions,
  giving such special consideration as may be possible to emerging small
  business concerns.'.
SEC. 132. DEFINITIONS.
  Section 702 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2152)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.
  `For purposes of this Act, the following definitions shall apply:
  `(1) CRITICAL COMPONENT- The term `critical component' includes such
  components, subsystems, systems, and related special tooling and test
  equipment essential to the production, repair, maintenance, or operation
  of weapon systems or other items of military equipment identified by the
  Secretary of Defense as being essential to the execution of the national
  security strategy of the United States. Components identified as critical
  by a National Security Assessment conducted pursuant to section 113(i)
  of title 10, United States Code, or by a Presidential determination as a
  result of a petition filed under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
  1962 shall be designated as critical components for purposes of this Act,
  unless the President determines that the designation is unwarranted.
  `(2) CRITICAL INDUSTRY FOR NATIONAL SECURITY- The term `critical industry
  for national security' means any industry (or industry sector) identified
  pursuant to section 2503(6) of title 10, United States Code, and such other
  industries or industry sectors as may be designated by the President as
  essential to provide industrial resources required for the execution of
  the national security strategy of the United States.
  `(3) CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY- The term `critical technology' includes any
  technology that is included in 1 or more of the plans submitted pursuant to
  section 6681 of title 42, United States Code, or section 2508 of title 10,
  United States Code (unless subsequently deleted), or such other emerging
  or dual use technology as may be designated by the President.
  `(4) CRITICAL TECHNOLOGY ITEM- The term `critical technology item' means
  materials directly employing, derived from, or utilizing a critical
  technology.
  `(5) DEFENSE CONTRACTOR- The term `defense contractor' means any person
  who enters into a contract with the United States--
  `(A) to furnish materials, industrial resources, or a critical technology
  for the national defense; or
  `(B) to perform services for the national defense.
  `(6) DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE- The term `domestic defense
  industrial base' means domestic sources which are providing, or which
  would be reasonably expected to provide, materials or services to meet
  national defense requirements during peacetime, graduated mobilization,
  national emergency, or war.
  `(7) DOMESTIC SOURCE- The term `domestic source' means a business concern--
  `(A) that performs in the United States or Canada substantially all of
  the research and development, engineering, manufacturing, and production
  activities required of such business concern under a contract with the United
  States relating to a critical component or a critical technology item; and
  `(B) that procures from business concerns described in subparagraph
  (A) substantially all of any components and assemblies required under
  a contract with the United States relating to a critical component or
  critical technology item.
  `(8) ESSENTIAL WEAPON SYSTEM- The term `essential weapon system' means
  a major weapon system and other items of military equipment identified
  by the Secretary of Defense as being essential to the execution of the
  national security strategy of the United States.
  `(9) FACILITIES- The term `facilities' includes all types of buildings,
  structures, or other improvements to real property (but excluding farms,
  churches or other places of worship, and private dwelling houses), and
  services relating to the use of any such building, structure, or other
  improvement.
  `(10) FOREIGN SOURCE- The term `foreign source' means a business entity
  other than a `domestic source'.
  `(11) INDUSTRIAL RESOURCES- The term `industrial resources' means materials,
  services, processes, or manufacturing equipment (including the processes,
  technologies, and ancillary services for the use of such equipment)
  needed to establish or maintain an efficient and modern national defense
  industrial capacity.
  `(12) MATERIALS- The term `materials' includes--
  `(A) any raw materials (including minerals, metals, and advanced processed
  materials), commodities, articles, components (including critical
  components), products, and items of supply; and
  `(B) any technical information or services ancillary to the use of any
  such materials, commodities, articles, components, products, or items.
  `(13) NATIONAL DEFENSE- The term `national defense' means programs for
  military and energy production or construction, military assistance to
  any foreign nation, stockpiling, space, and any directly related activity.
  `(14) PERSON- The term `person' includes an individual, corporation,
  partnership, association, or any other organized group of persons, or legal
  successor or representative thereof, or any State or local government or
  agency thereof.
  `(15) SERVICES- The term `services' includes any effort that is needed
  for or incidental to--
  `(A) the development, production, processing, distribution, delivery,
  or use of an industrial resource or a critical technology item; or
  `(B) the construction of facilities.
  `(16) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN- The term `small business concern' means a
  business concern that meets the requirements of section 3(a) of the Small
  Business Act and the regulations promulgated pursuant to that section,
  and includes such business concerns owned and controlled by socially and
  economically disadvantaged individuals or by women.
  `(17) SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY SOCIALLY AND
  ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS- The term `small business concern
  owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals'
  has the same meaning as in section 8(d)(3)(C) of the Small Business Act.'.
SEC. 133. APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
  Section 703 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2153)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 703. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.
  `Any officer or agency head may--
  `(1) appoint civilian personnel without regard to section 5331(b) of title
  5, United States Code, and without regard to the provisions of title 5,
  United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive service; and
  `(2) fix the rate of basic pay for such personnel without regard to the
  provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United
  States Code, relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates,
except that no individual so appointed may receive pay in excess of the
annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule, as the
President deems appropriate to carry out this Act.'.
SEC. 134. REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.
  Section 704 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2154)
  is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 704. REGULATIONS AND ORDERS.
  `(a) IN GENERAL- Subject to section 709 and subsection (b), the President
  may prescribe such regulations and issue such orders  as the President
  may determine to be appropriate to carry out this Act.
  `(b) PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS- Any procurement regulation, procedure, or
  form issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall be issued pursuant to section
  25 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, and shall conform to
  any governmentwide procurement policy or regulation issued pursuant to
  section 6 or 25 of that Act.'.
SEC. 135. INFORMATION ON THE DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE.
  Title VII of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2151 et
  seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`SEC. 722. DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE INFORMATION SYSTEM.
  `(a) Establishment Required-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- The President, acting through the Secretary of Defense and
  the heads of such other Federal agencies as the President may determine
  to be appropriate, shall provide for the establishment of an information
  system on the domestic defense industrial base which--
  `(A) meets the requirements of this section; and
  `(B) includes a systematic continuous procedure, to collect and analyze
  information necessary to evaluate--
  `(i) the adequacy of domestic industrial capacity to furnish critical
  components and critical technology items essential to the national security
  of the United States;
  `(ii) dependence on foreign sources for critical components and critical
  technology items essential to defense production; and
  `(iii) the reliability of foreign sources for critical components and
  critical technology items.
  `(2) INCORPORATION OF DINET- The Defense Information Network (or DINET),
  as established and maintained by the Secretary of Defense on the date
  of enactment of the Defense Production Act Amendments of 1992, shall be
  incorporated into the system established pursuant to paragraph (1).
  `(3) USE OF INFORMATION- Information collected and analyzed under the
  procedure established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall constitute a basis
  for making any determination to exercise any authority under this Act
  and a procedure for using such information shall be integrated into the
  decisionmaking process with regard to the exercise of any such authority.
  `(b) SOURCES OF INFORMATION-
  `(1) FOREIGN DEPENDENCE-
  `(A) SCOPE OF INFORMATION REVIEW- The procedure established to meet the
  requirement of subsection (a)(1)(B)(ii) shall address defense production
  with respect to the operations of prime contractors and at least the first
  2 tiers of subcontractors, or at lower tiers if a critical component is
  identified at such lower tier.
  `(B) USE OF EXISTING DATA COLLECTION AND REVIEW CAPABILITIES- To the extent
  feasible and appropriate, the President shall build upon existing methods
  of data collection and analysis and shall integrate information available
  from intelligence agencies with respect to industrial and technological
  conditions in foreign countries.
  `(C) INITIAL EMPHASIS ON PRIORITY LISTS- In establishing the procedure
  referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary may place initial emphasis
  on the production of critical components and critical technology items.
  `(2) Production base analysis-
  `(A) COMPREHENSIVE REVIEW- The analysis of the production base for any major
  system acquisition included in the information system maintained pursuant
  to subsection (a) shall, in addition to any information and analyses the
  President may require--
  `(i) include a review of all subcontractors and suppliers, beginning with
  any raw material, special alloy, or composite material involved in the
  production of a completed system;
  `(ii) identify each contractor and subcontractor (or supplier) at each
  level of production for such major system acquisition which represents a
  potential for delaying or preventing the system's production and acquisition,
  including the identity of each contractor or subcontractor whose contract
  qualifies as a foreign source or sole source contract and any supplier which
  is a foreign source or sole source for any item required in the production,
  including critical components; and
  `(iii) include information to permit appropriate management of accelerated
  or surge production.
  `(B) INITIAL REQUIREMENT FOR STUDY OF PRODUCTION BASES FOR NOT MORE THAN 6
  MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS- In establishing the information system under subsection
  (a), the President, acting through the Secretary of Defense, shall require
  an analysis of the production base for not more than 2 weapons of each
  military department which are major systems (as defined in section 2302(5)
  of title 10, United States Code). Each such analysis shall identify the
  critical components of each system.
  `(3) CONSULTATION REGARDING THE CENSUS OF MANUFACTURERS-
  `(A) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Bureau of the
  Census, shall consult with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the
  Federal Emergency Management Agency to improve the usefulness of information
  derived from the Census of Manufacturers in carrying out this section.
  `(B) ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED- The consultation required under subparagraph
  (A) shall address improvements in the level of detail, timeliness, and
  availability of input and output analyses derived from the Census of
  Manufacturers necessary to carry out this section.
  `(c) STRATEGIC PLAN FOR DEVELOPING COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM-
  `(1) PLAN REQUIRED- Not later than December 31, 1993, the President shall
  provide for the establishment of and report to the Congress on a strategic
  plan for developing a cost-effective, comprehensive information system
  capable of identifying on a timely, ongoing basis vulnerability in critical
  components and critical technology items.
  `(2) ASSESSMENT OF CERTAIN PROCEDURES- In establishing the plan
  pursuant to paragraph (1), the President shall assess the performance
  and cost-effectiveness of procedures implemented under subsection (b),
  and shall seek to build upon such procedures, as appropriate.
  `(d) CAPABILITIES OF SYSTEM-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In connection with the establishment of the information
  system under subsection (a), the President shall direct the Secretary of
  Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the heads of such other Federal
  agencies as the President may determine to be appropriate--
  `(A) to consult with each other and provide such information, assistance,
  and cooperation as may be necessary to establish and maintain the information
  system required by this section in a manner which allows the coordinated
  and efficient entry of information on the domestic defense industrial base
  into, and the withdrawal, subject to the protection of proprietary data,
  of information on the domestic defense industrial base from the system on
  an on-line interactive basis by the Department of Defense;
  `(B) to assure access to the information on the system, as appropriate,
  for all participating Federal agencies, including each military department;
  `(C) to coordinate standards, definitions, and specifications for information
  on defense production, which is collected by the Department of Defense and
  the military departments so that such information can be used by any Federal
  agency or department, as the President determines to be appropriate; and
  `(D) to assure that the information in the system is updated, as appropriate,
  with the active assistance of the private sector.
  `(2) TASK FORCE ON MILITARY-CIVILIAN PARTICIPATION- Upon the establishment
  of the information system under subsection (a), the President shall convene
  a task force consisting of the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
  Commerce, the Secretary of each military department, and the heads of such
  other Federal agencies and departments as the President may determine to
  be appropriate to establish guidelines and procedures to ensure that all
  Federal agencies and departments which acquire information with respect to
  the domestic defense industrial base are fully participating in the system,
  unless the President determines that all appropriate Federal agencies and
  departments, including each military department, are voluntarily providing
  information which is necessary for the system to carry out the purposes
  of this Act and chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code.
  `(e) REPORT ON SUBCONTRACTOR AND SUPPLIER BASE-
  `(1) REPORT REQUIRED- The President shall issue a report (in accordance
  with paragraph (4) which includes--
  `(A) a list of critical components, technologies, and technology items
  for which there is found to be inadequate domestic industrial capacity or
  capability; and
  `(B) an assessment of those subsectors of the economy of the United
  States which--
  `(i) support production of any component, technology, or technology item
  listed pursuant to subparagraph (A); or
  `(ii) have been identified as being critical to the development and
  production of components required for the production of weapons, weapon
  systems, and other military equipment essential to the national defense.
  `(2) MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED- The assessment made under paragraph (1)(B)
  shall include consideration of--
  `(A) the capacity of domestic sources, especially commercial firms, to
  fulfill peacetime requirements and graduated mobilization requirements
  for various items of supply and services;
  `(B) any trend relating to the capabilities of domestic sources to meet
  such peacetime and mobilization requirements;
  `(C) the extent to which the production or acquisition of various items
  of military material is dependent on foreign sources; and
  `(D) any reason for the decline of the capabilities of selected sectors
  of the United States economy necessary to meet peacetime and mobilization
  requirements, including--
  `(i) stability of defense requirements;
  `(ii) acquisition policies;
  `(iii) vertical integration of various segments of the industrial base;
  `(iv) superiority of foreign technology and production efficiencies;
  `(v) foreign government support of nondomestic sources; and
  `(vi) offset arrangements.
  `(3) POLICY RECOMMENDATIONS- The report required by paragraph (1) may
  provide specific policy recommendations to correct deficiencies identified
  in the assessment, which would help to strengthen domestic sources.
  `(4) TIME FOR ISSUANCE- The report required by paragraph (1) shall be issued
  not later than July 1 of each even-numbered year which begins after 1992.
  `(5) RELEASE OF UNCLASSIFIED REPORT- The report required by this subsection
  may be classified. An unclassified version of the report shall be made
  available to the public.'.
SEC. 136. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN RULEMAKING.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 709 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50
  U.S.C. 2159) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 709. PUBLIC PARTICIPATION IN RULEMAKING.
  `(a) EXEMPTION FROM THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT- Any regulation issued
  under this Act shall not be subject to sections 551 through 559 of title 5,
  United States Code.
  `(b) OPPORTUNITY FOR NOTICE AND COMMENT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subsection (c), any regulation issued
  under this Act shall be published in the Federal Register and opportunity
  for public comment shall be provided for not less than 30 days, consistent
  with the requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, United States Code.
  `(2) WAIVER FOR TEMPORARY PROVISIONS- The requirements of paragraph (1)
  may be waived, if--
  `(A) the officer authorized to issue the regulation finds that urgent
  and compelling circumstances make compliance with such requirements
  impracticable;
  `(B) the regulation is issued on a temporary basis; and
  `(C) the publication of such temporary regulation is accompanied by the
  finding made under subparagraph (A) (and a brief statement of the reasons
  for such finding) and an opportunity for public comment is provided for
  not less than 30 days before any regulation becomes final.
  `(3) CONSIDERATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS- All comments received during the
  public comment period specified pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall
  be considered and the publication of the final regulation shall contain
  written responses to such comments.
  `(c) PUBLIC COMMENT ON PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS- Any procurement policy,
  regulation, procedure, or form (including any amendment or modification of
  any such policy, regulation, procedure, or form) issued under this Act shall
  be subject to section 22 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act.'.
  (b) SCOPE OF APPLICATION- Section 709 of the Defense Production Act of
  1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2159), as amended by subsection (a) of this section,
  shall not apply to any regulation issued in proposed or final form on or
  before the date of enactment of this Act.
PART E--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS
SEC. 141. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
  Section 301(e)(2)(B) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50
  U.S.C. App. 2091(e)(2)(B)) is amended by striking `and to the Committees
  on Banking and Currency of the respective Houses' and inserting `and
  to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate
  and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
  Representatives'.
SEC. 142. INVESTIGATIONS; RECORDS; REPORTS; SUBPOENAS.
  Section 705 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2155)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking `subpena' each place such term appears and inserting
  `subpoena';
  (2) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (b),
  (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
  (3) in subsection (c) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by striking
  `$1,000' and inserting `$10,000';
  (4) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by striking all
  after the first sentence; and
  (5) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by striking
  `subpenaed' and inserting `subpoenaed'.
SEC. 143. EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONNEL.
  (a) NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE FOR EMPLOYEES SERVING
  WITHOUT COMPENSATION- Section 710(b)(6) of the Defense Production Act of
  1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2160(b)(6)) is amended to read as follows:
  `(6) NOTICE AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS-
  `(A) PUBLIC NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT- The head of any department or agency who
  appoints any individual under this subsection shall publish a notice of such
  appointment in the Federal Register, including the name of the appointee,
  the employing department or agency, the title of the appointee's position,
  and the name of the appointee's private employer.
  `(B) FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE- Any individual appointed under this subsection who
  is not required to file a financial disclosure report pursuant to section
  101 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978, shall file a confidential
  financial disclosure report pursuant to section 107 of that Act with the
  appointing department or agency.'.
  (b) TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS- Section 710(b) of the Defense Production Act of
  1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2160(b)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (7)--
  (A) by striking `Chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission'
  and inserting `Director of the Office of Personnel Management';
  (B) by striking `his findings' and inserting `his or her findings';
  (C) by striking `and the Joint Committee on Defense Production'; and
  (D) by striking `he may' and inserting `he or she may'; and
  (2) in paragraph (8), by striking `transportation and not to exceed $15 per
  diem in lieu of subsistence while away from their homes or regular places
  of business pursuant to such appointment' and inserting `reimbursement
  for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by them
  in carrying out the functions for which they were appointed in the same
  manner as persons employed intermittently in the Federal Government are
  allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code'.
SEC. 144. TECHNICAL CORRECTION.
  Section 711(a)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50
  U.S.C. App. 2161(a)(1)) is amended by striking `Bureau of the Budget'
  and inserting `Office of Management and Budget'.
PART F--REPEALERS AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS
SEC. 151. SYNTHETIC FUEL ACTION.
  Section 307 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2097)
  is amended--
  (1) in subsection (b), by striking the second sentence; and
  (2) by striking subsection (c) and all that follows through the end of
  the section.
SEC. 152. REPEAL OF INTEREST PAYMENT PROVISIONS.
  Section 711 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2161)
  is amended--
  (1) by striking subsection (b); and
  (2) in subsection (a)--
  (A) by striking `(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) and paragraph
  (4)' and inserting the following:
  `(a) AUTHORIZATION-
  `(1) IN GENERAL-  Except as provided in subsection (c),';
  (B) in paragraph (1), in the parenthetical, by striking `and for payment
  of interest under subsection (b) of this section';
  (C) by striking paragraph (2);
  (D) in paragraph (3), by striking `(3) There are' and inserting the
  following:
  `(b) SECTION 305 AUTHORIZATION- '; and
  (E) in paragraph (4)--
  (i) by striking `(4)(A) There are' and inserting the following:
  `(c) SECTION 303 AUTHORIZATION- There are'; and
  (ii) by striking subparagraph (B).
SEC. 153. JOINT COMMITTEE ON DEFENSE PRODUCTION.
  Section 712 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2162)
  is repealed.
SEC. 154. PERSONS DISQUALIFIED FOR EMPLOYMENT.
  Section 716 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2165)
  is repealed.
SEC. 155. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON UNIFORM COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS; REPORT
SUBMITTED.
  Section 718 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2167)
  is repealed.
SEC. 156. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON SUPPLIES AND SHORTAGES.
  Section 720 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2169)
  is repealed.
PART G--REAUTHORIZATION OF SELECTED PROVISIONS
SEC. 161. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 711 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2161)
  (as amended by section 152 of this Act) is amended by adding at the end
  the following new subsection:
  `(d) TITLE III AUTHORIZATION- There are authorized to be appropriated for
  each of fiscal years 1993, 1994, and 1995 not more than $200,000,000 to
  carry out the provisions of title III of this Act.'.
SEC. 162. EXTENSION OF PROGRAM.
  The first sentence of section 717(a) of the Defense Production Act of 1950
  (50 U.S.C. App. 2166(a)) is amended by striking `March 1, 1992' and inserting
  `September 30, 1995'.
SEC. 163. PRESIDENTIAL STUDY.
  Section 721 of the Defense Production Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. App. 2170)
  is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(k) QUADRENNIAL REPORT-
  `(1) IN GENERAL- In order to assist the Congress in its oversight
  responsibilities with respect to this section, the President and such
  agencies as the President shall designate shall complete and furnish to
  the Congress, not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this
  section and upon the expiration of every 4 years thereafter, a report which--
  `(A) evaluates whether there is credible evidence of a coordinated strategy
  by 1 or more countries or companies to acquire United States companies
  involved in research, development, or production of critical technologies
  for which the United States is a leading producer; and
  `(B) evaluates whether there are industrial espionage activities directed
  by foreign governments against private United States companies aimed at
  obtaining commercial secrets related to critical technologies.
  `(2) DEFINITION- For the purposes of this subsection, the term `critical
  technologies' means technologies identified under title VI of the National
  Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976
  or other critical technology, critical components, or critical technology
  items essential to national defense identified pursuant to this section.
  `(3) RELEASE OF UNCLASSIFIED STUDY- The report required by this subsection
  may be classified. An unclassified version of the report shall be made
  available to the public.'.
TITLE II--ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS TO IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS
SEC. 201. DISCOURAGING UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES.
  (a) SUSPENSION OR DEBARMENT AUTHORIZED- Not later than 270 days after the
  date of enactment of this Act, subpart 9.4 of title 48, Code of Federal
  Regulations (or any successor regulation) shall be amended to specify the
  circumstances under which a contractor, who has engaged in an unfair trade
  practice, as defined in subsection (b), may be found to presently lack such
  business integrity or business honesty to such a degree as to seriously
  and directly affect the responsibility of the contractor to perform any
  contract awarded by the Federal Government or perform a subcontract under
  such a contract.
  (b) DEFINITION OF `UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICE'- For purposes of this section,
  the term `unfair trade practice' means the commission of any of the
  following acts by a contractor:
  (1) UNFAIR TRADE PRACTICES- An unfair trade practice, as determined by
  the International Trade Commission, for a violation of section 337 of the
  Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1337).
  (2) VIOLATION OF AGREEMENTS OF COCOM- A violation, as determined by
  the Secretary of Commerce, of any agreement of the group known as the
  `Coordinating Committee' for purposes of the Export Administration Act of
  1979 or any similar bilateral or multilateral export control agreement.
  (3) FALSE STATEMENTS- A knowingly false statement regarding a material
  element of a certification concerning the foreign content of an item of
  supply, as determined by the Secretary of the department or the head of
  the agency to which such certificate was furnished.
SEC. 202. FRAUDULENT USE OF `MADE IN AMERICA' LABELS.
  Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act, subpart
  9.4 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)
  shall be amended to specify that any person having been determined to have
  intentionally affixed a label bearing a `Made in America' inscription (or
  any inscription having the same meaning) to a product sold in or shipped
  to the United States may, when such product was not made in the United
  States, be found to presently lack business integrity or business honesty
  to such a degree as to seriously and directly affect the responsibility
  of such person to perform any contract awarded by the Federal Government
  or perform a subcontract under such a contract.
SEC. 203. EVALUATION OF DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE POLICY.
  (a) CONGRESSIONAL COMMISSION ON THE EVALUATION OF DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE
  POLICY ESTABLISHED- There is established the Congressional Commission on
  the Evaluation of the Defense Industrial Base Policy (hereafter in this
  section referred to as the `Commission').
  (b) DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall develop criteria for maintaining the
  strength of the domestic defense industrial base for purposes of supporting
  the national security strategy of the United States.
  (2) CONSIDERATION OF AGENCY PROCEDURES AND ACTIVITIES- In developing
  criteria under paragraph (1), the Commission shall consider, with respect
  to each Federal agency and department which has any responsibility for
  maintaining the strength of the domestic defense industrial base--
  (A) the extent to which the statutory authority, policies, regulations,
  organizational arrangements, plans, programs, and budgets of such agency
  or department are adequate for the purpose of maintaining the strength of
  the domestic defense industrial base; and
  (B) the degree to which such authority, policies, regulations, arrangements,
  plans, programs, and budgets are being effectively implemented and
  sufficiently coordinated (within the agency or department and with other
  Federal agencies and departments).
  (3) EVALUATION OF CIVIL-MILITARY INTEGRATION- The Commission, in
  developing criteria under paragraph (1) and considering agency procedures
  and activities under paragraph (2), shall evaluate the feasibility of
  integrating defense research, development, production, acquisition,
  and other relevant contracting activities with similar activities in
  the commercial sector, and the degree to which such integration is being
  implemented by the agency or department.
  (c) MEMBERSHIP-
  (1) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- The Commission shall be composed of 9 members,
  including--
  (A) 3 members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives (2
  of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the majority leader
  of the House of Representatives and 1 of whom shall be appointed upon the
  recommendation of the minority leader of the House of Representatives) from
  among individuals who are especially qualified to serve on the Commission
  by reason of their education, training, or experience;
  (B) 3 members appointed by the President pro tempore of the Senate (2 of
  whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the majority leader of
  the Senate and 1 of whom shall be appointed upon the recommendation of the
  minority leader of the Senate) from among individuals who are especially
  qualified to serve on the Commission by reason of their education, training,
  or experience; and
  (C) 3 members appointed by a majority of the members appointed under
  subparagraphs (A) and (B) from among individuals who are especially
  qualified to serve on the Commission by reason of their education, training,
  or experience.
  (2) TERMS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Each member shall be appointed for the life of the
  Commission.
  (B) VACANCY- A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same manner
  in which the original appointment was made.
  (3) PROHIBITION ON COMPENSATION-
  (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B), members of the
  Commission shall serve without pay.
  (B) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member shall receive travel expenses, including
  per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with sections 5702 and 5703
  of title 5, United States Code.
  (4) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute
  a quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings.
  (5) CHAIRPERSON- The Chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by
  the members of the Commission from among the individuals appointed under
  paragraph (1)(C).
  (6) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or
  a majority of the members.
  (d) POWERS OF COMMISSION-
  (1) HEARINGS AND SESSIONS-
  (A) IN GENERAL- The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this
  section, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take testimony,
  and receive evidence as the Commission considers appropriate.
  (B) ADMINISTRATION OF OATHS- The Commission may administer oaths or
  affirmations to witnesses appearing before the Commission.
  (2) POWERS OF MEMBERS AND AGENTS- Any member or agent of the Commission may,
  if authorized by the Commission, take any action which the Commission is
  authorized to take.
  (3) OBTAINING OFFICIAL DATA-
  (A) AUTHORITY TO OBTAIN- Notwithstanding any provision of section 552a of
  title 5, United States Code, the Commission may secure directly from any
  department or agency of the United States information necessary to enable
  the Commission to carry out this Act.
  (B) PROCEDURE- Upon request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the head
  of a department or agency referred to in subparagraph (A) shall furnish
  the information requested to the Commission.
  (C) USE OF INFORMATION- The Commission shall be subject to the same
  limitations with respect to the use or disclosure of any confidential
  or privileged information, trade secrets, or other proprietary or
  business-sensitive information which is obtained from any department or
  agency under this subsection as are applicable to the use or disclosure
  of such information or secrets by such department or agency.
  (4) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same
  manner and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of
  the United States.
  (5) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES- Upon the request of the Commission,
  the Administrator of General Services shall provide to the Commission,
  on a reimbursable basis, the administrative support services necessary
  for the Commission to carry out its responsibilities under this section.
  (e) STAFF OF COMMISSION; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS-
  (1) STAFF- Subject to such regulations as the Commission may prescribe,
  and with the approval of the Commission, the Chairperson may appoint and
  fix the pay of such personnel as the Chairperson considers appropriate.
  (2) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE LAWS- The staff of the Commission
  may be appointed without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States
  Code, governing appointments in the competitive service, and may be paid
  without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter
  53 of that title relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates,
  except that an individual so appointed may not receive pay in excess of
  the annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
  (3) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- Subject to such regulations as the Commission
  may prescribe, the Chairperson may procure temporary and intermittent
  services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, but at
  rates for individuals not to exceed the annual rate of basic pay payable
  for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
  (4) STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Upon request of the Chairperson, the head
  of any Federal department or agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis,
  any of the personnel of that department or agency to the Commission to
  assist it in carrying out its duties under this Act.
  (f) DOMESTIC DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE DEFINED- For the purposes of this
  section, the term `domestic defense industrial base' means--
  (1) the industries in the United States and Canada which at any time are
  providing national defense materials and services; and
  (2) the industries in the United States and Canada which reasonably would
  be expected to provide national defense materials and services in a time
  of emergency or war.
  (g) REPORTS- The Commission shall submit to the Congress and the President--
  (1) an interim report at the end of the 1-year period beginning on the
  date the Commission first meets with a majority of members present; and
  (2) a final report not later than March 1, 1995, on the findings of the
  Commission under this section with respect to the domestic defense industrial
  base, together with such recommendations for legislative, administrative,
  or policy action as the Commission may determine to be appropriate.
  (h) TERMINATION- The Commission shall cease to exist 60 days after the
  date on which the final report is submitted pursuant to subsection (g)(2).
  (i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
  an amount equal to not more than $500,000 to carry out this section,
  such sums to remain available until the termination of the Commission.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. ENERGY SECURITY.
  Section 203 of the Geothermal Energy Research, Development, and Demonstration
  Act of 1974 (30 U.S.C. 1143) is amended by striking `1990' and inserting
  `1993'.
SEC. 302. DOMESTIC RETAIL DEPOSIT-TAKING BY FOREIGN BANKS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 6(c) of the International Banking Act of 1978
  (12 U.S.C. 3104(c)) is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1)--
  (A) by inserting `domestic retail' before `deposit accounts'; and
  (B) by inserting `and requiring deposit insurance protection,' after
  `$100,000,'; and
  (2) in paragraph (2)--
  (A) by striking `Deposit' and inserting `Domestic retail deposit'; and
  (B) by inserting `that require deposit insurance protection' after
  `$100,000'.
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section, and the amendments made by this section,
  shall have the same effective date as the Federal Deposit Insurance
  Corporation Improvement Act of 1991.
SEC. 303. DEPOSIT INSURANCE ASSESSMENT RATES FOR LIFELINE ACCOUNT DEPOSITS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 7(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1817(b)(2)) (as amended by section 302(a) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking the comma after `members'; and
  (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(H) BANK ENTERPRISE ACT REQUIREMENT- The Corporation shall design
  the risk-based assessment system so that, insofar as the system bases
  assessments, directly or indirectly, on deposits, the portion of the
  deposits of any insured depository institution which are attributable to
  lifeline accounts established in accordance with the Bank Enterprise Act
  of 1991 shall be subject to assessment at a rate determined in accordance
  with such Act.'.
  (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
  (1) Section 232(b)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  Improvement Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242) is amended--
  (A) by striking `(8), (9), and (10)' and inserting `and (8)'; and
  (B) by striking `(9), (10), and (11)' and inserting `and (9)'.
  (2) Section 233(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
  Act of 1991 is amended by striking `section 235' where such term appears
  in paragraphs (3) and (5) and inserting `section 234'.
  (3) Section 7(d)(5) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12
  U.S.C. 1817(d)(4)) (as added by section 233(c)(1) of the Federal Deposit
  Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991) is amended by striking
  `section 235' and inserting `section 234'.
  (4) Effective on the effective date of the amendment made by section 302(a)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991,
  section 232(a)(1) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
  Act of 1991 (12 U.S.C. 1834(a)((1)) is amended by striking `7(b)(10)'
  and inserting `7(b)(2)(H)'.
  (5) Section 10(f) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(f))
  (as added by section 302(d) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  Improvement Act of 1991) is hereby redesignated as subsection (g).
  (6) Section 302(e) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
  Act of 1991 (Public Law 102-242, 105 Stat. 2349) is amended--
  (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) as paragraphs (3),
  (4), and (5), respectively; and
  (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new paragraphs:
  `(1) in section 5(d)(3)(B)(i)--
  `(A) by striking `average assessment base' and inserting `deposits'; and
  `(B) by striking `shall--' and all that follows through the period and
  inserting `shall be treated as deposits which are insured by the Savings
  Association Insurance Fund.';
  `(2) in section 5(d)(3)(B)(ii)--
  `(A) by striking `average assessment base' and inserting `deposits'; and
  `(B) by striking `shall--' and all that follows through the period and
  inserting `shall be treated as deposits which are insured by the Bank
  Insurance Fund.'.
  (7) Effective on the effective date of the amendment made by section 302(a)
  of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991,
  section 7(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(c)
  (as amended by such section 302(a)) is amended--
  (A) by adding at the end, the paragraph added to such section 7(b) (as in
  effect on the day before the effective date of such amendment) by section
  103(b)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
  1991; and
  (B) by redesignating such paragraph as paragraph (6).
  (8) Effective on the effective date of the amendment made by section
  302(e)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
  of 1991 (as so redesignated by paragraph (6)(A) of this subsection),
  section 7(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(b))
  (as amended by section 302(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
  Improvement Act of 1991) is amended by adding after paragraph (6) (as
  transferred and so redesignated by paragraph (6) of this subsection)
  the following new paragraph:
  `(7) COMMUNITY ENTERPRISE CREDITS- The Corporation shall allow a credit
  against any semiannual assessment to any insured depository institution
  which satisfies the requirements of the Community Enterprise Assessment
  Credit Board under section 233(a)(1) of the Bank Enterprise Act of 1991
  in the amount determined by such Board by regulation.'.
  (9) Effective on the effective date of the amendment made by section
  302(e)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
  1991 (as so redesignated by paragraph (3)(A) of this subsection), section
  233 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991
  (12 U.S.C. 1834a) is amended--
  (A) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by striking `7(d)(4)' and inserting `7(b)(7)';
  (B) in subsection (a)(3), by striking `7(d)(4)' and inserting `7(b)(7)'; and
  (C) in subsection (e)(2), by striking `made for purposes of the notification
  required under section 7(d)(1)(B)' and inserting `of the semiannual
  assessment to which such credit is applicable'.
SEC. 304. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall be deemed to have become
  effective on March 1, 1992, except as otherwise specifically provided in
  this Act.
SEC. 305. PROVISIONAL REPEAL OF DUPLICATIVE PROVISIONS.
  In the event of the enactment of H.R. 5334 (An Act to amend and extend
  certain laws relating to housing and community development, and for other
  purposes), the following provisions of that Act, and the amendments made
  by such provisions, are repealed, effective on the date of enactment of
  this Act:
  (1) Section 1603(a)(3) of such Act.
  (2) Section 1604(a)(11) of such Act.
  (3) Paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of section 1604(b) of such Act.
  (3) Paragraphs (2) through (7) of section 1605(a) of such Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.