 
--S.374--
S.374
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To settle all claims of the Aroostook Band of Micmacs resulting from the
Band's omission from the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Aroostook Band of Micmacs Settlement Act'.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.
 (a) FINDINGS AND POLICY- Congress hereby finds and declares that:
 (1) The Aroostook Band of Micmacs, as represented as of the time of passage of
 this Act by the Aroostook Micmac Council, is the sole successor in interest,
 as to lands within the United States, to the aboriginal entity generally
 known as the Micmac Nation which years ago claimed aboriginal title to
 certain lands in the State of Maine.
 (2) The Band was not referred to in the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act
 of 1980 because historical documentation of the Micmac presence in Maine
 was not available at that time.
 (3) This documentation does establish the historical presence of Micmacs
 in Maine and the existence of aboriginal lands in Maine jointly used by the
 Micmacs and other tribes to which the Micmacs could have asserted aboriginal
 title but for the extinguishment of all such claims by the Maine Indian
 Claims Settlement Act of 1980.
 (4) The Aroostook Band of Micmacs, in both its history and its presence in
 Maine, is similar to the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians and would have
 received similar treatment under the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of
 1980 if the information available today had been available to Congress and
 the parties at that time.
 (5) It is now fair and just to afford the Aroostook Band of Micmacs the
 same settlement provided to the Houlton Band of Maliseet Indians for the
 settlement of that Band's claims, to the extent they would have benefited
 from inclusion in the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980.
 (6) Since 1820, the State of Maine has provided special services to the
 Indians residing within its borders, including the members of the Aroostook
 Band of Micmacs. During this same period, the United States provided few
 special services to the Band and repeatedly denied that it had jurisdiction
 over or responsibility for the Indian groups in Maine. In view of this
 provision of special services by the State of Maine, requiring substantial
 expenditures by the State of Maine and made by the State of Maine without
 being required to do so by Federal law, it is the intent of Congress that
 the State of Maine not be required further to contribute directly to this
 settlement.
 (b) PURPOSE- It is the purpose of this Act to--
 (1) provide Federal recognition of the Band;
 (2) provide to the members of the Band the services which the United States
 provides to Indians because of their status as Indians; and
 (3) place $900,000 in a land acquisition fund and property tax fund for
 the future use of the Aroostook Band of Micmacs; and
 (4) ratify the Micmac Settlement Act, which defines the relationship between
 the State of Maine and the Aroostook Band of Micmacs.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
 For the purposes of this Act:
 (1) The term `Band' means the Aroostook Band of Micmacs, the sole successor
 to the Micmac Nation as constituted in aboriginal times in what is now the
 State of Maine, and all its predecessors and successors in interest. The
 Aroostook Band of Micmacs is represented, as of the date of enactment of this
 Act, as to lands within the United States, by the Aroostook Micmac Council.
 (2) The term `Band Tax Fund' means the fund established under section 4(b)
 of this Act.
 (3) The term `Band Trust Land' means land or natural resources acquired by
 the Secretary of the Interior and held in trust by the United States for
 the benefit of the Band.
 (4) The term `land or natural resources' means any real property or natural
 resources, or any interest in or right involving any real property or natural
 resources, including (but not limited to) minerals and mineral rights, timber
 and timber rights, water and water rights, and hunting and fishing rights.
 (5) The term `Land Acquisition Fund' means the fund established under
 section 4(a) of this Act.
 (6) The term `laws of the State' means the constitution, and all
 statutes, regulations, and common laws of the State of Maine and its
 political subdivisions and all subsequent amendments thereto or judicial
 interpretations thereof.
 (7) The term `Maine Implementing Act' means the Act entitled `Act to Implement
 the Maine Indian Claims Settlement' that was enacted by the State of Maine
 in chapter 732 of the Maine Public Laws of 1979, as amended by chapter 675
 of the Maine Public Laws of 1981 and chapter 672 of the Maine Public Laws
 of 1985, and all subsequent amendments thereto.
 (8) The term `Micmac Settlement Act' means the Act entitled `Act to implement
 the Aroostook Band of Micmacs Settlement Act' that was enacted by the State
 of Maine in chapter 148 of the Maine Public Laws of 1989, and all subsequent
 amendments thereto.
 (9) The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 4. AROOSTOOK BAND OF MICMACS LAND ACQUISITION AND PROPERTY TAX FUNDS.
 (a) LAND ACQUISITION FUND- There is hereby established in the Treasury of
 the United States a fund to be known as the Aroostook Band of Micmacs Land
 Acquisition Fund, into which $900,000 shall be deposited by the Secretary
 following the appropriation of sums authorized by section 10.
 (b) BAND TAX FUND- (1) There is hereby established in the Treasury of the
 United States a fund to be known as the Aroostook Band of Micmacs Tax Fund,
 into which shall be deposited $50,000 in accordance with the provisions of
 this Act.
 (2) Income accrued on the Land Acquisition Fund shall be transferred to the
 Band Tax Fund until a total of $50,000 has been transferred to the Band Tax
 Fund under this paragraph. No transfer shall be made under this subsection
 if such transfer would diminish the Land Acquisition Fund to a balance of
 less than $900,000.
 (3) Whenever funds are transferred to the Band Tax Fund under paragraph
 (2), the Secretary shall publish notice of such transfer in the Federal
 Register. Such notice shall specify when the total amount of $50,000 has
 been transferred to the Band Tax Fund.
 (4) The Secretary shall manage the Band Tax Fund in accordance with section
 1 of the Act of June 24, 1938 (52 Stat. 1037; 25 U.S.C. 162a), and shall
 utilize the principal and interest of the Band Tax Fund only as provided
 in paragraph (5) and section 5(d) and for no other purpose.
 (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of title 31, United States Code, the
 Secretary shall pay out of the Band Tax Fund, all valid claims for taxes,
 payments in lieu of property taxes, and fees, together with any interest
 and penalties thereon--
 (A) for which the Band is determined to be liable;
 (B) which are final and not subject to further administrative or judicial
 review; and
 (C) which have been certified by the Commissioner of Finance in the State
 of Maine as valid claims that meet the requirements of this paragraph.
 (c) SOURCE FOR CERTAIN PAYMENTS- Notwithstanding any other provision of
 law, if--
 (1) the Band is liable to the State of Maine or any county, district,
 municipality, city, town, village, plantation, or any other political
 subdivision thereof for any tax, payment in lieu of property tax, or fees,
 together with any interest and penalties thereon, and
 (2) there are insufficient funds in the Band Tax Fund to pay such tax,
 payment, or fee (together with any interest or penalties thereon) in full,
the deficiency shall be paid by the Band only from income-producing property
owned by the Band which is not held in trust for the Band by the United
States and the Band shall not be required to pay such tax, payment, or fee
(or any interest or penalty thereon) from any other source.
 (d) PROCEDURE FOR FILING AND PAYMENT OF CLAIMS- The Secretary shall, after
 consultation with the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Maine, and
 the Band, prescribe written procedures governing the filing and payment of
 claims under this section.
SEC. 5. AROOSTOOK BAND TRUST LANDS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Subject to the provisions of section 4, the Secretary
 is authorized and directed to expend, at the request of the Band, the
 principal of, and income accruing on, the Land Acquisition Fund for the
 purposes of acquiring land or natural resources for the Band and for no
 other purposes. Land or natural resources acquired within the State of
 Maine with funds expended under the authority of this subsection shall be
 held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Band.
 (b) ALIENATION- (1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended
 under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of
 the Band may be alienated only by--
 (A) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the State of Maine as
 provided in subsection (c);
 (B) takings for public use pursuant to the laws of the United States; or
 (C) transfers made pursuant to an Act or joint resolution of Congress.
All other transfers of land or natural resources acquired with funds expended
under the authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of
such Band shall be void ab initio and without any validity in law or equity.
 (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) shall not prohibit or limit transfers
 of individual use assignments of land or natural resources from one member
 of the Band to another member of such Band.
 (3) Land or natural resources held in trust for the benefit of the Band may,
 at the request of the Band, be--
 (A) leased in accordance with the Act of August 9, 1955 (25 U.S.C. 415
 et seq.);
 (B) leased in accordance with the Act of May 11, 1938 (25 U.S.C. 396a
 et seq.);
 (C) sold in accordance with section 7 of the Act of June 25, 1910 (25
 U.S.C. 407);
 (D) subjected to rights-of-way in accordance with the Act of February 5,
 1948 (25 U.S.C. 323 et seq.);
 (E) exchanged for other land or natural resources of equal value, or if they
 are not equal, the values shall be equalized by the payment of money to the
 grantor or to the Secretary for deposit in the land acquisition fund for
 the benefit of the Band, as the circumstances require, so long as payment
 does not exceed 25 percent of the total value of the interests in land to
 be transferred by the Band; and
 (F) sold, only if at the time of sale the Secretary has entered into an
 option agreement or contract of sale to purchase other lands of approximate
 equal value.
 (c) CONDEMNATION BY STATE OF MAINE AND POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS THEREOF-
 (1) Land or natural resources acquired with funds expended under the
 authority of subsection (a) and held in trust for the benefit of the Band
 may be condemned for public purposes by the State of Maine, or any political
 subdivision thereof, only upon such terms and conditions as shall be agreed
 upon in writing between the State and such Band after the date of enactment
 of this Act.
 (2) The consent of the United States is hereby given to the State of Maine
 to further amend the Micmac Settlement Act for the purpose of embodying
 the agreement described in paragraph (1).
 (d) ACQUISITION- (1) Lands and natural resources may be acquired by the
 Secretary for the Band only if the Secretary has, at any time prior to
 such acquisition--
 (A) transmitted a letter to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine
 stating that the Band Tax Fund contains $50,000; and
 (B) provided the Secretary of State of the State of Maine with a copy of
 the procedures for filing and payment of claims prescribed under section 4(d).
 (2)(A) No land or natural resources may be acquired by the Secretary for
 the Band until the Secretary files with the Secretary of State of the
 State of Maine a certified copy of the deed, contract, or other conveyance
 setting forth the location and boundaries of the land or natural resources
 to be acquired.
 (B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), a filing with the Secretary of State
 of the State of Maine may be made by mail and, if such method of filing is
 used, shall be considered to be completed on the date on which the document
 is properly mailed to the Secretary of State of the State of Maine.
 (3) Notwithstanding the provisions of the first section of the Act of August
 1, 1888 (40 U.S.C. 257) and the first section of the Act of February 26, 1931
 (40 U.S.C. 258a), the Secretary may acquire land or natural resources under
 this section from the ostensible owner of the land or natural resources only
 if the Secretary and the ostensible owner of the land or natural resources
 have agreed upon the identity of the land or natural resources to be sold
 and upon the purchase price and other terms of sale. Subject to the agreement
 required by the preceding sentence, the Secretary may institute condemnation
 proceedings in order to perfect title, satisfactory to the Attorney General
 of the United States, in the United States and condemn interests adverse
 to the ostensible owner.
 (4)(A) When trust or restricted land or natural resources of the Band are
 condemned pursuant to any law of the United States other than this Act,
 the proceeds paid in compensation for such condemnation shall be deposited
 into the Land Acquisition Fund and shall be reinvested in acreage within
 unorganized or unincorporated areas of the State of Maine. When the proceeds
 are reinvested in land whose acreage does not exceed that of the land taken,
 all the land shall be acquired in trust. When the proceeds are invested in
 land whose acreage exceeds the acreage of the land taken, the Band shall
 designate, with the approval of the United States, and within 30 days of
 such reinvestment, that portion of the land acquired by the reinvestment,
 not to exceed the area taken, which shall be acquired in trust. The land
 acquired from the proceeds that is not acquired in trust shall be held in
 fee by the Band. The Secretary shall certify, in writing, to the Secretary
 of State of the State of Maine the location, boundaries, and status of the
 land acquired from the proceeds.
 (B) The State of Maine shall have initial jurisdiction over condemnation
 proceedings brought under this section. The United States shall be a necessary
 party to any such condemnation proceedings. After exhaustion of all State
 administrative remedies, the United States is authorized to seek judicial
 review of all relevant matters involved in such condemnation proceedings in
 the courts of the United States and shall have an absolute right of removal,
 at its discretion, over any action commenced in the courts of the State.
 (5) Land or natural resources acquired by the Secretary in trust for the
 Band shall be managed and administered in accordance with terms established
 by the Band and agreed to by the Secretary in accordance with section 102 of
 the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f)
 or other applicable law.
SEC. 6. LAWS APPLICABLE.
 (a) FEDERAL RECOGNITION- Federal recognition is hereby extended to the
 Aroostook Band of Micmacs. The Band shall be eligible to receive all of the
 financial benefits which the United States provides to Indians and Indian
 tribes to the same extent, and subject to the same eligibility criteria,
 generally applicable to other federally recognized Indians and Indian tribes.
 (b) APPLICATION OF FEDERAL LAW- For the purposes of application of Federal
 law, the Band and its lands shall have the same status as other tribes and
 their lands accorded Federal recognition under the terms of the Maine Indian
 Claims Settlement Act of 1980.
 (c) ELIGIBILITY FOR SPECIAL SERVICES- Notwithstanding any other provision
 of law authorizing the provision of special programs and services by the
 United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, any member of
 the Band in Aroostook County, Maine, shall be eligible for such services
 without regard to the existence of a reservation or the residence of members
 of the Band on or near a reservation.
 (d) AGREEMENTS WITH STATE REGARDING JURISDICTION- The State of Maine and the
 Band are authorized to execute agreements regarding the jurisdiction of the
 State of Maine over lands owned by, or held in trust for the benefit of,
 the Band or any member of the Band. The consent of the United States is
 hereby given to the State of Maine to amend the Micmac Settlement Act for
 this purpose: Provided, That such amendment is made with the agreement of
 the Aroostook Band of Micmacs.
SEC. 7. TRIBAL ORGANIZATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Band may organize for its common welfare and adopt an
 appropriate instrument in writing to govern the affairs of the Band when
 acting in its governmental capacity. Such instrument and any amendments
 thereto must be consistent with the terms of this Act. The Band shall
 file with the Secretary a copy of its organic governing document and any
 amendments thereto.
 (b) MEMBERS- For purposes of benefits provided by reason of this Act, only
 persons who are citizens of the United States may be considered members of
 the Band except persons who, as of the date of enactment of this Act, are
 enrolled members on the Band's existing membership roll, and direct lineal
 descendants of such members. Membership in the Band shall be subject to such
 further qualifications as may be provided by the Band in its organic governing
 document, or amendments thereto, subject to approval by the Secretary.
SEC. 8. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INDIAN CHILD WELFARE ACT.
 For the purposes of this section, the Band is an `Indian tribe' within
 the meaning of section 4(8) of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25
 U.S.C. 1903(8)), except that nothing in this section shall alter or affect
 the jurisdiction of the State of Maine over child welfare matters as provided
 by the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980.
SEC. 9. FEDERAL FINANCIAL AID PROGRAMS UNAFFECTED BY PAYMENTS UNDER THIS ACT.
 (a) STATE OF MAINE- No payments to be made for the benefit of the Band
 pursuant to this Act shall be considered by any agency or department of the
 United States in determining or computing the eligibility of the State of
 Maine for participation in any financial aid program of the United States.
 (b) BAND AND MEMBERS OF THE BAND- (1) The eligibility for, or receipt of,
 payments from the State of Maine by the Band or any of its members shall
 not be considered by any department or agency of the United States in
 determining the eligibility of, or computing payments to, the Band or any
 of the members of the Band under any Federal financial aid program.
 (2) To the extent that eligibility for the benefits of any Federal financial
 aid program is dependent upon a showing of need by the applicant, the
 administering agency shall not be barred by this subsection from considering
 the actual financial situation of the applicant.
SEC. 10. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated $900,000 for the fiscal year 1992
 for transfer to the Aroostook Band of Micmacs Land Acquisition Fund.
SEC. 11. INTERPRETATION.
 In the event of a conflict of interpretation between the provisions of the
 Maine Implementing Act, the Micmac Settlement Act, or the Maine Indian Claims
 Settlement Act of 1980 and this Act, the provisions of this Act shall govern.
SEC. 12. LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
 No provision of this Act may be construed to confer jurisdiction to sue,
 or to grant implied consent to the Band to sue, the United States or any
 of its officers with respect to the claims extinguished by the Maine Indian
 Claims Settlement Act of 1980.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.