 
--S.419--
S.419
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to enable the Resolution Trust Corpora
tion to meet its obligations to depositors and others by the least expensive
means.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Resolution Trust Corporation Funding Act
 of 1991'.
TITLE I--RTC RESOLUTION PROCESS AND FUNDING
SEC. 101. THRIFT RESOLUTION FUNDING.
 Section 21A(i) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(i))
 is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B),
 respectively, and moving the left margin of such subparagraphs (as so
 redesignated) 2 ems to the right;
 (2) in the heading, by striking `BORROWING' and inserting `FUNDING';
 (3) by inserting after such heading the following new paragraph designation
 and heading:
 `(1) BORROWING- '; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) INTERIM FUNDING- The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide the sum
 of $30,000,000,000 to the Corporation to carry out the purposes of this
 section.'.
SEC. 102. REPORTS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 21A(k) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(k)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
 (A) by striking `The' and inserting `Notwithstanding section 9105 of title
 31, United States Code, the'; and
 (B) by striking everything after `standards' the first place it appears and
 inserting `. The audited statements shall be transmitted to the Congress by
 the Oversight Board not later than 180 days after the end of the Corporation's
 fiscal year to which those statements apply.';
 (2) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking `, or by an independent certified public
 accountant retained to audit the Corporation's financial statement,'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(8) OPERATING PLANS-
 `(A) IN GENERAL- Before the beginning of each calendar quarter, the Oversight
 Board shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
 of the Senate and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of
 the House of Representatives a detailed financial operating plan covering
 the remaining quarters of the Corporation's fiscal year in which that
 quarter occurs.
 `(B) CONTENTS- At a minimum, a detailed financial operating plan shall
 include--
 `(i) estimates of the aggregate assets of institutions that are projected
 to be resolved in each quarter,
 `(ii) the estimated aggregate cost of resolutions in each quarter,
 `(iii) the estimated aggregate asset sales and principal collections in
 each quarter, and
 `(iv) the Corporation's summary pro forma financial statement at the end
 of each quarter.
 `(9) REPORTS ON SEVERELY TROUBLED INSTITUTIONS- The Director of the Office
 of Thrift Supervision shall deliver on a quarterly basis to the Oversight
 Board a list of savings associations for which the Director has determined
 grounds exist, or are likely to exist in the current fiscal year of the
 Corporation and in the next following fiscal year of the Corporation,
 for the appointment of a conservator or receiver under the Home Owners'
 Loan Act.  The Oversight Board shall report the aggregate number and assets
 of such savings associations to Congress within 60 days after the end of
 each calendar quarter.'.
 (b) FIRST REQUIRED PLAN- The first plan described in section 21A(k)(8)
 of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act, as amended by subsection (a), is due
 not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (c) TIMELINESS OF REPORTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- At any time when an agency is delinquent in providing
 information to Congress or any of its committees as required by paragraph (1),
 (4), (5), (6), (8), or (9) of section 21A(k) of the Federal Home Loan Bank
 Act or by subsection (b) of this section, the President of the Oversight
 Board, and the head of any agency responsible for such delinquency shall,
 within 15 days of such delinquency, in testimony before the Committee on
 Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on
 Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives--
 (A) explain the causes of such delinquency; and
 (B) describe what steps are being taken to correct it and prevent its
 recurrence.
Testimony shall not be required pursuant to the preceding sentence before
either Committee if the Chairman and Ranking Member of such Committee agree
that such testimony is not necessary. For purposes of this paragraph,
the term `head of an agency' means the Chairman of the Resolution Trust
Corporation with respect to reports to be filed by such Corporation, the
Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision with respect to reports to be
filed by such Office, and the Comptroller General with respect to audits to
be conducted by the General Accounting Office.
 (2) TRANSITION RULE- Any information described in paragraph (1) of this
 subsection that is delinquent on the date of enactment of this Act shall be
 provided to the appropriate committees of Congress not later than 30 days
 following enactment of this Act.  Failure to provide such information as
 required by this paragraph shall be considered as a delinquency under the
 provisions of paragraph (1).
SEC. 103. STATUS OF EMPLOYEES.
 (a) RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION- Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan
 Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(q) STATUS OF EMPLOYEES-
 `(1) LIABILITY- A director, member, officer, or employee of the Corporation
 or of the Oversight Board has no liability under the Securities Act of
 1933 with respect to any claim arising out of or resulting from any act
 or omission by such person within the scope of such person's employment
 in connection with any transaction involving the disposition of assets
 (or any interests in any assets or any obligations backed by any assets)
 by the Corporation. This subsection shall not be construed to limit personal
 liability for criminal acts or omissions, willful or malicious misconduct,
 acts or omissions for private gain, or any other acts or omissions outside
 the scope of such person's employment.
 `(2) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `employee of
 the Corporation or of the Oversight Board' includes--
 `(A) any employee of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or of
 the Office of Thrift Supervision who serves as a deputy or assistant to a
 member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation; and
 `(B) any officer or employee of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 who performs services for the Corporation on behalf of the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Corporation, acting as exclusive manager.
 `(3) EFFECT ON OTHER LAW- This subsection does not affect--
 `(A) any other immunities and protections that may be available under
 applicable law with respect to such transactions, or
 `(B) any other right or remedy against the Corporation, against the United
 States under applicable law, or against any person other than a person
 described in paragraph (1) participating in such transactions.
This subsection shall not be construed to limit or alter in any way the
immunities that are available under applicable law for Federal officials
and employees not described in this subsection.'.
 (b) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION- Section 2 of the Federal Deposit
 Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1812) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new subsection:
 `(f) STATUS OF EMPLOYEES-
 `(1) IN GENERAL- A director, member, officer, or employee of the Corporation
 has no liability under the Securities Act of 1933 with respect to any claim
 arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by such person within
 the scope of such person's employment in connection with any transaction
 involving the disposition of assets (or any interests in any assets or any
 obligations backed by any assets) by the Corporation. This subsection shall
 not be construed to limit personal liability for criminal acts or omissions,
 willful or malicious misconduct, acts or omissions for private gain, or
 any other acts or omissions outside the scope of such person's employment.
 `(2) DEFINITION- For purposes of this subsection, the term `employee of
 the Corporation' includes any employee of the Office of the Comptroller of
 the Currency or of the Office of Thrift Supervision who serves as a deputy
 or assistant to a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation in
 connection with activities of the Corporation.
 `(3) EFFECT ON OTHER LAW- This subsection does not affect--
 `(A) any other immunities and protections that may be available to such
 person under applicable law with respect to such transactions, or
 `(B) any other right or remedy against the Corporation, against the United
 States under applicable law, or against any person other than a person
 described in paragraph (1) participating in such transactions.
This subsection shall not be construed to limit or alter in any way the
immunities that are available under applicable law for Federal officials
and employees not described in this subsection.'.
SEC. 104. INCIDENTAL POWERS.
 (a) RESOLUTION TRUST CORPORATION- Section 21A(b)(10)(N) of the Federal Home
 Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(10)(N)) is amended by adding at the end
 the following: `The Corporation may indemnify the directors, officers and
 employees of the Corporation on such terms as the Corporation deems proper
 against any liability under any civil suit pursuant to any statute or pursuant
 to common law with respect to any claim arising out of or resulting from any
 act or omission by such person within the scope of such person's employment
 in connection with any transaction entered into involving the disposition
 of assets (or any interests in any assets or any obligations backed by any
 assets) by the Corporation. For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms
 `officers' and `employees' include officers and employees of the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Corporation or of other agencies who perform services for
 the Corporation on behalf of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation,
 acting as exclusive manager. The indemnification authorized by this
 subparagraph shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any immunities or
 other protections that may be available to such person under applicable law,
 and this provision does not affect any such immunities or other protections.'.
 (b) OVERSIGHT BOARD- Section 21A(a)(5) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act
 (12 U.S.C. 1441a(a)(5)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (I) and (J) as subparagraphs (J) and
 (K), respectively; and
 (2) by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following:
 `(I) indemnify, from funds made available to it by the Corporation, the
 members, officers, and employees of the Oversight Board on such terms as
 the Oversight Board deems proper against any liability under any civil suit
 pursuant to any statute or pursuant to common law with respect to any claim
 arising out of or resulting from any act or omission by such person within
 the scope of such person's employment in connection with any transaction
 entered into involving the disposition of assets (or any interests in any
 assets or any obligations backed by any assets) by the Corporation, and the
 indemnification authorized by this provision shall be in addition to and
 not in lieu of any immunities or other protections that may be available
 to such person under applicable law, and this provision does not affect
 any such immunities or other protections;'.
SEC. 105. CLARIFICATION OF REVIEW OF PRIOR CASES.
 Section 21A(b)(11)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(b)(11)(B)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `The Corporation shall exercise' and inserting the following:
 `(C) PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO REVIEW OF PRIOR CASES-
 `(i) IN GENERAL- The Corporation shall exercise'; and
 (2) by adding at the end of subparagraph (C), as so designated by paragraph
 (1) of this section, the following:
 `(ii) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS- The Corporation, in modifying, renegotiating,
 or restructuring the insolvent institution cases resolved by the Federal
 Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation between January 1, 1988, and the date
 of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement
 Act of 1989, shall carry out its responsibilities under section 519(a) of
 the Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and
 Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 (104 Stat. 1386) and shall,
 consistent with achieving the greatest overall financial savings to the
 Federal Government, pursue all legal means by which the Corporation can
 reduce both the direct outlays and the tax benefits associated with such
 cases, including, but not limited to, restructuring to eliminate tax-free
 interest payments and renegotiating to capture a larger portion of the tax
 benefits for the Corporation.'.
TITLE II--RTC DISPOSITION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
SEC. 201. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO SCOPE OF PROGRAM.
 (a) DEFINITION OF CORPORATION- Section 21A(c)(9)(C) of the Federal Home Loan
 Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(9)(C)) is amended by striking the period at
 the end and inserting `, except that for purposes of subsection (c)(2) only,
 the term means the Resolution Trust Corporation acting in any capacity.'.
 (b) SALES TO INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS EXCLUDED FROM PROGRAM- Section
 21A(c)(10) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(10))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(10) EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS WITH INSURED DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS-
 The provisions of this subsection shall not apply with respect to any
 eligible residential property after the date the Corporation enters into
 a contract to sell such property to an insured depository institution
 (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), including
 any sale in connection with a transfer of all or substantially all of the
 assets of a closed savings association (including such property) to an
 insured depository institution.'.
SEC. 202. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO SALE PROCEDURES.
 Section 21A(c)(6)(A)(i) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(c)(6)(A)(i)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(i) SALE PRICE- The Corporation may sell eligible single family property
 to qualifying households, nonprofit organizations, and public agencies
 without regard to any minimum purchase price.'.
SEC. 203. SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
 The amendments made by sections 201 and 202 of this Act to section 21A of
 the Federal Home Loan Bank Act shall be effective only during the period
 beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending at the end of
 fiscal year 1991, and section 21A shall apply after the end of such period
 as if such amendments had not been made.
TITLE III--RTC MANAGEMENT REFORMS
SEC. 301. MANAGEMENT ENHANCEMENT GOALS.
 Section 21A of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 1441a) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(r) MANAGEMENT ENHANCEMENT GOALS-
 `(1) ACTION TO ACHIEVE SPECIFIC GOALS- The Corporation, upon the enactment
 of this subsection, shall take action to assure achievement of the management
 goals specified in this paragraph, as follows:
 `(A) MANAGING CONSERVATORSHIPS- The Corporation shall standardize procedures
 with respect to its (i) auditing of conservatorships, (ii) ensuring and
 monitoring of compliance with Corporation policies and procedures by
 conservatorship managing agents, and (iii) ensuring and monitoring of
 conservatorship managing agent performance. These procedures shall be
 developed and implemented not later than September 30, 1991.
 `(B) PACE OF RESOLUTIONS- The Corporation shall take all reasonable
 and necessary steps to reduce the length of time institutions remain in
 conservatorship, with the goal that no institution shall be in conservatorship
 for more than 9 months.
 `(C) INFORMATION RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROGRAM- The Corporation shall
 develop and incorporate within its strategic plan for information resources
 management, (i) a translation of program goals into the communication and
 computer hardware and software, and staff needed to accomplish such goals,
 (ii) a systems architecture to ensure that all systems will work together,
 and (iii) an identification of Corporation information and systems needs
 at all operational levels.
 `(D) SECURITIES PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SYSTEM- The Corporation shall develop
 within its information architecture framework, a centralized system for the
 management of its portfolio of securities. This system shall be developed
 and implemented not later than September 30, 1991.
 `(E) TRACKING REO ASSETS- The Corporation shall develop, within its
 information architecture, an effective system to track and inventory
 real-estate-owned assets. This system shall be developed and implemented
 not later than September 30, 1991.
 `(F) ASSET VALUATION- The Corporation shall develop a process for the
 quarterly valuation or updating of valuations of the assets it holds in its
 capacity as receiver (or as a result of such capacity). Such process shall
 incorporate, to the extent practical, Corporation disposition experience. In
 addition, the necessary information systems shall be developed to track
 and manage these valuations.
 `(G) STANDARDIZATION OF DUE DILIGENCE AND MARKET FORMAT- The Corporation
 shall develop a program for performing due diligence on one- to four-family
 mortgages and for marketing such loans on a pooled basis.
 `(H) CONTRACTING- The Corporation, in order to identify the need for any
 changes in its contracting process which would enhance the independence,
 integrity, consistency and effectiveness of that process, shall consult
 on a regular basis with other agencies and organizations that have large
 scale contracting and procurement systems, and shall review on a regular
 basis its organizational structure and relationships. The Corporation shall
 develop and have in widespread use the following:
 `(i) A manual setting forth comprehensive policies and procedures.
 `(ii) A revised and expanded directive that clearly and definitively
 describes the roles and responsibilities of all those involved in the
 contracting process.
 `(iii) A revised and expanded directive that sets forth in detail the
 standard procedures to be followed in evaluating contractor proposals.
 `(iv) A set of standardized solicitation and contract documents for use by
 all Corporation officers.
 `(v) A series of standardized contracting training modules for use by
 Corporation personnel and private contractors.
 `(2) The Corporation shall, not later than September 30, 1991, file
 with the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate,
 and the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of
 Representatives, a report on the progress being made toward full compliance
 by the agency with this subsection, as well as a timetable for completing
 those items not yet completed.'.
TITLE IV--MINORITY CONTRACTING REPORT
SEC. 401. MINORITY AND WOMEN BUSINESS POLICY, OUTREACH AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
REPORTING REQUIREMENT.
 Section 21A(k)(5)(B) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (12
 U.S.C. 1441a(k)(5)(B)) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new clause:
 `(xiii) A complete description of all actions taken by the Corporation
 pursuant to subsections (a), (b), and (c) of section 1216 of the Financial
 Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 with respect to the
 employment of and contracting with minorities, women, and businesses owned or
 controlled by minorities or women and any other activity of the Corporation
 pursuant to the outreach program of the Corporation for minorities and
 women. Such description shall specify the steps taken by the Corporation,
 in its corporate capacity and its capacity as conservator or receiver,
 to implement the minority and women outreach programs required by section
 1216(c) of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement
 Act of 1989 and shall set forth information and data showing--
 `(I) the extent to which and means by which contract solicitations have
 been directed to minorities, women, and businesses owned or controlled by
 minorities or women by the Corporation and by the Federal Deposit Insurance
 Corporation on behalf of the Corporation;
 `(II) the extent to which prime contracts and subcontracts have been awarded
 to minorities, women, and businesses owned or controlled by minorities
 or women, including data with respect to the number of such contracts,
 the dollar amounts thereof, and the percentage of Corporation contracting
 activity represented thereby (including contracting activity by the Federal
 Deposit Insurance Corporation on behalf of the Corporation);
 `(III) contracting and outreach activity with respect to joint ventures and
 other business arrangements in which minorities, women, or businesses owned
 or controlled by minorities or women have a participation or interest; and
 `(IV) the extent to which the Corporation's minority and women contracting
 outreach programs have been successful in maximizing opportunities through
 the outreach policies established by the Corporation for participation
 of minorities, women, and businesses owned or controlled by minorities or
 women in the Corporation's contracting activities.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.