 
--S.452--
S.452
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize a transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain land to the
Secretary of the Interior, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EKBERG-COPPER SPUR LAND EXCHANGE.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF EXCHANGE- (1) As soon as practicable after receipt of an
 offer from the owner, the Secretary of Agriculture shall accept title to the
 approximately 427 acres of land located in Pennington County, South Dakota,
 described as `Tract A' and `Tract B', as generally depicted on a map entitled
 `Ekberg-Copper Spur Ranch Land Exchange--Proposed', dated September 1989,
 which lands shall thereupon become part of the Black Hills National Forest
 and shall be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance
 with the laws applicable to the National Forest System.
 (2) Upon receipt of title to the land described in paragraph (1), the
 Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the owner of that land all right,
 title, and interest of the United States in the approximately 560 acres
 of land located in Routt County, Colorado, described as the `Copper Spur
 Ranch--portion to Ekberg', as generally depicted on the map described in
 section 1(a).
 (b) MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION- (1) As soon as practicable after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file with the
 Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee
 on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives a map and
 a legal description of the land conveyed to the Secretary of Agriculture
 pursuant to subsection (a)(1), and the map and description shall have the
 same force and effect as if they were included in this Act.
 (2) The Secretary of Agriculture may correct clerical and typographical
 errors in the map and legal description filed pursuant to paragraph (1).
 (3) The map and legal description filed pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be
 on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Chief of
 the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
 (c) RESERVATION OF EASEMENTS- (1) The land conveyed into private ownership
 pursuant to subsection (a)(2) land shall be subject to the conservation
 easement granted to the State of Colorado (Division of Wildlife) by the United
 States, acting by and through the Secretary of Agriculture, dated April 27,
 1988, and recorded in Routt County, Colorado (Reception Numbered 375283,
 Book 637, pages 1741-43), on October 6, 1988.
 (2)(A) The land conveyed into private ownership pursuant to subsection
 (a)(2) shall be subject to easements for ingress and egress through such
 lands for the benefit of the United States and the public granted between
 agencies of the United States on May 10, 1989, and recorded in Routt County,
 Colorado (Reception Numbered 380443, Book 643, pages 0051-0055) and all
 other easements of record.
 (B)(i) The Bureau of Land Management and the owner of the Copper Spur
 Ranch shall enter into a cooperative agreement to study the feasibility
 of constructing access routes as alternatives to those provided by the
 easements described in subparagraph (A).
 (ii) Upon agreement by the Bureau of Land Management on alternative access
 routes, the construction of such access routes at the expense of the
 owner of the Copper Spur Ranch, and the conveyance to the United States
 of easements for use of such access routes by the United States and the
 public, the Secretary shall execute and deliver to the owner of the Copper
 Spur Ranch a release or other appropriate form of instrument extinguishing
 the easements described in subparagraph (A).
 (d)  EQUALIZATION OF PAYMENT- If the values of the lands exchanged pursuant
 to subsection (a) are not equal, they shall be equalized by the payment of
 cash as provided in section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management
 Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(c)) without regard to the 25 percent limitation
 contained in that section.
 (e) DATE OF EXCHANGE- The exchange of lands authorized by subsection (a) shall
 be completed not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.