 
--S.483--
S.483
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
Entitled the `Taconic Mountains Protection Act of 1991'.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) Congress finds that--
 (1) large tracts of undeveloped forest land in Vermont's Taconic Mountain
 Range are threatened by conversion to nonforest uses;
 (2) lands included in the Green Mountain National Forest are forever open
 to all Americans;
 (3) the Green Mountain National Forest permanently protects forests for
 their environmental and economic benefits through the management of range,
 recreation, timber, water, wilderness, and fish and wildlife resources;
 (4) the Bennington County Regional Commission supports expanding the Green
 Mountain National Forest boundary to include the Taconic Mountain Range; and
 (5) the Vermont General Assembly has enacted legislation consenting to
 the acquisition by the Federal Government of lands throughout the Taconic
 Mountain Range within Bennington County for inclusion in the Green Mountain
 National Forest.
 (b) It is the purpose of this Act to expand the boundaries of the Green
 Mountain National Forest to include the Taconic Mountain Range within
 Bennington County.
SEC. 2. GREEN MOUNTAIN NATIONAL FOREST EXPANSION.
 The boundaries of the Green Mountain National Forest are hereby modified
 to include all lands depicted on a map entitled `Taconic Mountain Range
 Expansion' dated March 1, 1991, which shall be on file and available
 for public inspection in the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service,
 Washington, District of Columbia. Within the area delineated on such map,
 the Secretary shall utilize his authorities under the Act of March 1,
 1911 (chapter 186, 36 Stat. 961 as amended), to acquire lands, waters,
 and interests therein. Lands so acquired shall be managed under such Act
 for National Forest purposes.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.