 
--S.534--
S.534
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the Congress
to General H. Norman Schwarzkopf, and to provide for the production of bronze
duplicates of such medal for sale to the public.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) General H. Norman Schwarzkopf, Commander-in-Chief, United States Central
 Command, has valiantly directed United States and coalition armed forces
 in Operation Desert Storm, culminating in the successful liberation of the
 nation of Kuwait pursuant to United Nations resolutions;
 (2) the United States and coalition forces under the command of General
 Schwarzkopf quickly, decisively, and completely defeated the fourth largest
 ground army in the world, while minimizing coalition casualties and collateral
 civilian damage;
 (3) the United States and coalition forces under the command of General
 Schwarzkopf achieved the correct and justified objectives established by
 the President and the heads of State and governments of coalition forces;
 (4) the victory of United States and coalition forces successfully liberated
 the people of Kuwait, leading to greater stability and order in the region;
 (5) the logistics train established to support Operation Desert Storm was
 fundamental to the success of the coalition effort; and
 (6) General Schwarzkopf, together with his able staff and subordinate
 commanders, has led the men and women of the Armed Forces of the United
 States in an achievement unparalleled in United States military history.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
 (a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED- The President is authorized to present, on behalf
 of the Congress, to General H. Norman Schwarzkopf a gold medal of appropriate
 design in recognition of his exemplary performance as a military leader
 in coordinating the planning, strategy, and execution of the United States
 combat action and his invaluable contributions to the United States and to
 the liberation of Kuwait as Commander-in-Chief, United States Central Command.
 (b) DESIGN AND STRIKING- For purposes of the presentation referred to in
 subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter referred to in this
 Act as the `Secretary') shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems,
 devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
 The Secretary may strike bronze duplicates of the gold medal struck pursuant
 to section 2, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, and may
 sell such bronze duplicates at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof,
 including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses,
 and the cost of the gold medal.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.
 Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
 chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 not to exceed $30,000 to carry out section 2.
 (b) PROCEEDS OF SALES- Amounts received from sales of duplicate bronze
 medals under section 3 shall be credited to the appropriation made pursuant
 to the authorization provided in subsection (a).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.