 
--S.565--
S.565
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the Congress
to General Colin L. Powell, and to provide for the production of bronze
duplicates of such medal for sale to the public.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that:
 (1) General Colin L. Powell, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the principal
 military adviser to the President, the National Security Council, and the
 Secretary of Defense has displayed an extraordinary degree of leadership,
 competence and professionalism fulfilling his statutory responsibilities
 throughout Operation Desert Shield and Operation Desert Storm.
 (2) The leadership, competence and professionalism of General Powell and
 his subordinates, officers and noncommissioned officers, have instilled
 great confidence and pride in the Armed Forces of the United States which
 contributed significantly to the successful prosecution of the Persian
 Gulf War.
 (3) General Powell and his subordinates brilliantly planned and coordinated
 at the national level the highly rapid and successful mobilization and
 deployment of more than one-half million men and women of the Armed Forces
 of the United States to the Persian Gulf region.
 (4) General Powell's leadership and foresight were directly responsible
 for insuring that sufficient military forces and logistics were committed
 to the foregoing operations in a timely manner to bring about a swift and
 decisive military victory with casualties and loss of life at levels so
 low as to be unprecedented in the annals of military operations by any nation.
 (5) The superb coordination among allied forces and the unique and exceptional
 command arrangements which produced the highly effective chain of command
 within the allied coalition is directly attributed to the military competence,
 and extraordinary leadership of General Powell.
 (6) As the principal military advisor to the President of the United States,
 the National Security Council, and the Secretary of Defense, General
 Powell's clear and farsighted assessments, judgments and recommendations
 were invaluable and instrumental in the timely and decisive military actions
 directed by the President which resulted in Iraqi compliance with all United
 Nations resolutions related to the Iraqi invasion and occupation of Kuwait.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.
 (a) PRESENTATION AUTHORIZED- The President is authorized to present,
 on behalf of the Congress, to General Colin L. Powell a gold medal
 of appropriate design in recognition of his exemplary performance as a
 military leader and advisor to the President in planning and coordinating
 the military response of the United States to the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait
 and the ultimate retreat and defeat of Iraqi forces and Iraqi acceptance
 of all United Nations Resolutions relating to Kuwait.
 (b) DESIGN AND STRIKING- For purposes of the presentation referred to in
 subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter referred to in this
 Act as the `Secretary') shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems,
 devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.
 The Secretary may strike bronze duplicates of the gold medal struck pursuant
 to section 2, under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, and may
 sell such bronze duplicates at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof,
 including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses,
 and the cost of the gold medal.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.
 Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of
 chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 not to exceed $30,000 to carry out section 2.
 (b) PROCEEDS OF SALES- Amounts received from sales of duplicate bronze
 medals under section 3 shall be credited to the appropriation made pursuant
 to the authorization provided in subsection (a).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.