 
--S.606--
S.606
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act by designating certain segments of
the Allegheny River in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as a component of
the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF ALLEGHENY RIVER.
 In order to preserve and protect for present and future generations
 the outstanding scenic, natural, recreational, scientific, historic, and
 ecological values of the Allegheny River in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
 and to assist in the protection, preservation, and enhancement of the
 fisheries resources associated with such river, section 3(a) of the Wild
 and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding the following
 new paragraph at the end:
 `( ) ALLEGHENY, PENNSYLVANIA- The segment from Kinzua Dam downstream
 approximately 7 miles to the United States Route 6 Bridge, and the segment
 from Buckaloons Recreation Area at Irvine, Pennsylvania, downstream
 approximately 47 miles to the southern end of Alcorn Island at Oil City,
 to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river
 through a cooperative agreement with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
 the counties of Warren, Forest, and Venango, as provided under section 10(e)
 of this Act; and the segment from the sewage treatment plant at Franklin
 downstream approximately 31 miles to the refinery at Emlenton, Pennsylvania,
 to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture as a recreational river
 through a cooperative agreement with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and
 Venango County, as provided under section 10(e) of this Act.'.
SEC. 2. ADVISORY COUNCILS FOR THE ALLEGHENY NATIONAL RECREATIONAL RIVER.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Agriculture (hereafter in this Act
 referred to as the `Secretary') shall establish within 120 days after
 the date of enactment of this Act 2 advisory councils to advise him on
 the establishment of final boundaries and the management of the river
 segments designated by section 1 of this Act (hereinafter referred to as the
 `Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River'), as follows:
 (1) The Northern Advisory Council, to provide advice for the management of
 the segments of the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River between Kinzua
 Dam and Alcorn Island.
 (2) The Southern Advisory Council, to provide advice for the management of
 the segment of the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River between Franklin
 and Emlenton.
 (b) NORTHERN ADVISORY COUNCIL- (1) The Northern Advisory Council shall be
 composed of 9 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
 (A) The Forest Supervisor of the Allegheny National Forest, or his designee,
 who shall serve as chair of the Council and be a nonvoting member.
 (B) The Secretary of the Department of Environmental Resources of the
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or his designee.
 (C) 6 members, 2 from each county from recommendations submitted by the
 County Commissioners of Warren, Forest, and Venango Counties, of which
 no fewer than 2 such members shall be riparian property owners along the
 Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River.
 (D) One member from a nonprofit conservation organization concerned with
 the protection of natural resources from recommendations submitted by the
 Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 (2) Members appointed under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1)
 shall be appointed for terms of 3 years. A vacancy in the Council shall be
 filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (3) Members of the Northern Advisory Council shall serve without pay as
 such and members who are full-time officers or employees of the United
 States shall receive no additional pay by reason of their service on the
 Commission. Each member shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses
 reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under this Act.
 (4) The Northern Advisory Council shall cease to exist 10 years after the
 date on which the Secretary approves the management plan for the Allegheny
 National Recreation River.
 (c) SOUTHERN ADVISORY COUNCIL- (1) The Southern Advisory Council shall be
 composed of 7 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:
 (A) The Forest Supervisor of the Allegheny National Forest, or his designee,
 who shall serve as a nonvoting member.
 (B) The Secretary of the Department of Environmental Resources of the
 Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, or his designee, who shall serve as chairman.
 (C) 4 members from recommendations submitted by the County Commissioners
 of Venango County, of which at least one shall be a riparian property owner
 along the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River.
 (D) One member from a nonprofit conservation organization concerned with
 the protection of natural resources, from recommendations submitted by the
 Governor of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 (2) Members appointed under subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1) shall
 be appointed for terms of 3 years. A vacancy of the county representatives on
 the Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment
 was made.
 (3) Members of the Southern Advisory Council shall serve without pay as
 such and members who are full-time officers or employees of the United
 States shall receive no additional pay by reason of their service on the
 Commission. Each member shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses
 reasonably incurred in carrying out their responsibilities under this Act.
 (4) The Southern Advisory Council shall cease to exist 10 years after the
 date on which the Secretary approves the management plan for the Allegheny
 National Recreation River.
SEC. 3. ADMINISTRATION OF ALLEGHENY NATIONAL WILD AND SCENIC  RIVER.
 (a) BOUNDARIES- After consultation with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
 advisory councils, local governments, and the public, and within 18 months
 after the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall take such action with
 respect to the segments of the Allegheny River designated under section 1 of
 this Act as is required under section 3(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
 (b) INTERIM MEASURES- As soon as practicable after enactment of this Act,
 the Secretary, shall issue guidelines specifying standards for local zoning
 ordinances, pursuant to section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act,
 with the objective of protecting the outstandingly remarkable values of the
 Allegheny Wild and Scenic River, as defined by the Secretary. Once issued,
 such guidelines shall have the force and effect provided in section 6(c)
 of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
 (c) ADMINISTRATION OF CERTAIN SEGMENTS- (1) Land and mineral rights acquired
 by the Secretary for the purpose of managing the Allegheny National Wild
 and Scenic River segments located between Kinzua Dam and Alcorn Island
 shall be added to and become part of the Allegheny National Forest.
 (2) Land and mineral rights acquired by the Secretary for the purpose
 of managing the Allegheny National Wild and Scenic River segment located
 between Franklin and Emlenton may be managed under a cooperative agreement
 with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
SEC. 5. STUDY RIVERS.
 (a) STUDY- Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16
 U.S.C. 1271-1287) is amended by adding the following new paragraphs at the
 end thereof:
 `( ) CLARION, PENNSYLVANIA- The segment of the main stem of the river
 from Ridgway to its confluence with the Allegheny River. The Secretary of
 Agriculture shall conduct the study of such segment.
 `( ) MILL CREEK, JEFFERSON AND CLARION COUNTIES, PENNSYLVANIA- The segment
 of the main stem of the creek from its headwaters near Gumbert Hill in
 Jefferson County, downstream to the confluence with the Clarion River.'.
SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.