 
--S.64--
S.64
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To authorize appropriations to establish a National Education Commission on
Time and Learning and a National Council on Education Standards and Testing,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
 SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Education Council Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.
 The table of contents is as follows:
Sec. 1. Table of contents.
TITLE I--NATIONAL EDUCATION COMMISSION ON TIME AND LEARNING
Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. National Education Commission on Time and Learning.
TITLE II--NATIONAL WRITING PROJECT
Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. National Writing Project.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
Part A--Civic Education Program
Sec. 301. Instruction on the history and principles of democracy in the
United States.
Part B--Law-Related Education Program
Sec. 311. Amendment to law-related education program.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL COUNCIL ON EDUCATION STANDARDS AND TESTING
Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Purpose and findings.
Sec. 403. Establishment.
Sec. 404. Duties.
Sec. 405. Reports.
Sec. 406. Membership.
Sec. 407. Director and staff; experts and consultants.
Sec. 408. Powers of Council.
Sec. 409. Federal Advisory Committee Act.
Sec. 410. Authorization of Appropriations.
Sec. 411. Termination.
TITLE I--NATIONAL EDUCATION COMMISSION ON TIME AND LEARNING
Sec. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Education Commission on Time and
 Learning Act'.
SEC. 102. NATIONAL EDUCATION COMMISSION ON TIME AND LEARNING.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established a National Education
 Commission on Time and Learning (hereafter in this title referred to as the
 `Commission').
 (b) MEMBERSHIP OF THE COMMISSION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall consist of nine members, of whom--
 (A) 3 members shall be appointed by the Secretary of Education (hereafter
 in this Act referred to as the `Secretary');
 (B) 3 members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of
 Representatives in consultation with the minority leader of the House of
 Representatives; and
 (C) 3 members shall be appointed by the President pro tempore of the
 Senate upon the recommendation of the majority leader and minority leader
 of the Senate.
 (2) REQUIREMENTS-
 (A) After consultation among the appointing authorities, members of the
 Commission shall be appointed on the basis of exceptional education,
 training, or experience from among--
 (i) the Nation's Governors;
 (ii) individuals from the business community;
 (iii) individuals who are engaged in the profession of teaching;
 (iv) individuals engaged in school administration, members of school boards,
 and parents or representatives of parents or parent organizations;
 (v) State officials directly responsible for education;
 (vi) Federal officials responsible for education policy;
 (vii) educational researchers with experience relevant to the Commission's
 work;
 (viii) Members of Congress and State legislators; and
 (ix) representatives of nonprofit organizations or foundations which work
 to expand educational opportunities for children outside of school hours.
 (3) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers,
 but shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
 (4) TERMS- Members of the Commission shall be appointed to serve for the
 life of the Commission.
 (5) COMPENSATION- Each member of the Commission shall serve without
 compensation, but shall be allowed travel expenses including per diem in lieu
 of subsistence, as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States Code,
 when engaged in the performance of Commission duties.
 (6) ACTIVITY OF COMMISSION- The Commission may begin to carry out its duties
 under this subsection when at least 5 members of the Commission have been
 appointed.
 (c) FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION-
 (1) STUDY- The Commission shall examine the quality and adequacy of the
 study and learning time of elementary and secondary students in the United
 States, including issues regarding the length of the school day and year, the
 extent and role of homework, how time is being used for academic subjects,
 year-round professional opportunities for teachers, and the use of school
 facilities for extended learning programs.
 (2) REPORT- The Commission shall submit a final report under subsection
 (d). The report shall include an analysis and recommendations concerning--
 (A) the length of the academic day and the academic year in elementary
 and secondary schools throughout the United States and in schools of other
 nations;
 (B) the time children spend in school learning academic subjects such as
 English, mathematics, science, history, and geography;
 (C) the use of incentives for students to increase their educational
 achievement in available instruction time;
 (D) how children spend their time outside school with particular attention to
 how much of that time can be considered `learning time' and how out-of-school
 activities affect intellectual development;
 (E) the time children spend on homework, how much of that time is spent
 on academic subjects, the importance that parents and teachers attach to
 homework, and the extent to which homework contributes to student learning;
 (F) year-round professional opportunities for teachers and how teachers
 can use their time to acquire knowledge and skills that will permit them
 to improve their performance and help raise the status of the profession;
 (G) how school facilities are used for extended learning programs;
 (H) the appropriate number of hours per day and days per year of instruction
 for United States public elementary and secondary schools;
 (I) if appropriate, a model plan for adopting a longer academic day and
 academic year for use by United States elementary and secondary schools
 by the end of this decade, including recommendations regarding mechanisms
 to assist States, school districts, schools, and parents in making the
 transition from the current academic day and year to an academic day and
 year of a longer duration;
 (J) suggestions for such changes in laws and regulations as may be required
 to facilitate States, school districts, and schools in adopting longer
 academic days and years; and
 (K) an analysis and estimate of the additional costs, including the cost
 of increased teacher compensation, to States and local school districts if
 longer academic days and years are adopted.
 (d) COMMISSION REPORT- Not later than 2 years after the Commission concludes
 its first meeting, the Commission shall submit a final report to the Congress
 and the Secretary on the study and any recommendations required pursuant
 to the provisions of this section.
 (e) POWERS OF THE COMMISSION-
 (1) HEARINGS- The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out this
 section, conduct such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take
 such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Commission considers
 appropriate.
 (2) TESTIMONY; PUBLIC HEARINGS- In carrying out this section, the Commission
 shall receive testimony and conduct public hearings in different geographic
 areas of the country, both urban and rural, to receive the reports, views,
 and analyses of a broad spectrum of experts and the public regarding the
 quality and adequacy of the time devoted to study and learning.
 (3) INFORMATION- The Commission may secure directly from any Federal agency
 such information, relevant to its functions, as may be necessary to enable
 the Commission to carry out this subsection. Upon request of the Chairman
 of the Commission, the head of the agency shall, to the extent permitted
 by law, furnish such information to the Commission.
 (4) GIFTS- The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations
 of money, services, or property, for the purpose of aiding the work of
 the Commission.
 (5) USE OF MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the
 same manner and under the same conditions as the department and agencies
 of the United States.
 (6) SUPPORT SERVICES- The Secretary shall provide to the Commission on a
 reimbursable basis such reasonable administrative and support services as
 the Commission may request.
 (f) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS-
 (1) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet on a regular basis, as necessary,
 at the call of the Chairman or a majority of its members.
 (2) QUORUM- A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute
 a quorum for the transaction of business.
 (3) CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN-
 (A) The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Commission shall be elected by
 and from the members of the Commission.
 (B) The Commission shall appoint a staff director, who shall be paid at
 a rate not to exceed the maximum rate of basic pay under section 5376 of
 title 5, United States Code, and such professional and clerical personnel as
 may be reasonable and necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its
 functions without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code,
 governing appointments in the competitive service, and without regard to the
 provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title,
 or of any other provision of law, relating to the number, classification,
 and General Schedule rates, except that no employee, other than the staff
 director, may be compensated at a rate to exceed the maximum rate applicable
 to level 15 of the General Schedule.
 (4) OTHER FEDERAL PERSONNEL- Upon request of the Chairman of the Commission,
 the head of any Federal agency is authorized to detail, without reimbursement,
 any personnel of such agency to the Commission to assist the Commission
 in carrying out its duties under this title. Such detail shall be without
 interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege.
 (g) TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION- The Commission shall terminate 90 days
 after submitting the final report required by subsection (d).
 (h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to carry out
 the provisions of this title.
TITLE II--NATIONAL WRITING PROJECT
SEC. 201. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the United States faces a crisis in writing in schools and in the
 workplace;
 (2) only 25 percent of 11th grade students have adequate analytical writing
 skills;
 (3) over the past two decades, universities and colleges across the country
 have reported increasing numbers of entering freshmen who are unable to
 write at a level equal to the demands of college work;
 (4) American businesses and corporations are concerned about the limited
 writing skills of entry-level workers, and a growing number of executives
 are reporting that advancement was denied to them due to inadequate writing
 abilities;
 (5) the writing problem has been magnified by the rapidly changing student
 populations in the Nation's schools and the growing number of students who
 are at risk because of limited English proficiency;
 (6) most teachers in the United States elementary schools, secondary schools,
 and colleges, have not been trained to teach writing;
 (7) since 1973, the only national program to address the writing problem
 in the Nation's schools has been the National Writing Project, a network of
 collaborative university-school programs whose goal is to improve the quality
 of student writing and the teaching of writing at all grade levels and to
 extend the uses of writing as a learning process through all disciplines;
 (8) the National Writing Project offers summer and school year inservice
 teacher training programs and a dissemination network to inform and teach
 teachers of developments in the field of writing;
 (9) the National Writing Project is a nationally recognized and honored
 nonprofit organization that recognizes that there are teachers in every region
 of the country who have developed successful methods for teaching writing
 and that such teachers can be trained and encouraged to train other teachers;
 (10) the National Writing Project has become a model for programs in other
 academic fields;
 (11) the National Writing Project teacher-teaching-teachers program identifies
 and promotes what is working in the classrooms of the Nation's best teachers;
 (12) the National Writing Project teacher-teaching-teachers project is a
 positive program that celebrates good teaching practices and good teachers
 and through its work with schools increases the Nation's corps of successful
 classroom teachers;
 (13) evaluations of the National Writing Project document the positive
 impact the project has had on improving the teaching of writing, student
 performance, and student thinking and learning ability;
 (14) the National Writing Project programs offer career-long education
 to teachers, and teachers participating in the National Writing Project
 receive graduate academic credit;
 (15) each year approximately 85,000 teachers voluntarily seek training through
 word of mouth endorsements from other teachers in National Writing Project
 intensive summer workshops and school-year inservice programs through one
 of the 141 regional sites located in 43 States, and in 4 sites that serve
 United States teachers teaching overseas;
 (16) 250 National Writing Project sites are needed to establish regional
 sites to serve all teachers;
 (17) 13 National Writing Project sites in 8 different States have been
 discontinued in 1988 due to lack of funding; and
 (18) private foundation resources, although generous in the past, are
 inadequate to fund all of the National Writing Project sites needed and
 the future of the program is in jeopardy without secure financial support.
SEC. 202. NATIONAL WRITING PROJECT.
 (a) AUTHORIZATION- The Secretary is authorized to make a grant to the
 National Writing Project (hereafter in this section referred to as the
 `grantee'), a nonprofit educational organization which has as its primary
 purpose the improvement of the quality of student writing and learning,
 and the teaching of writing as a learning process in the Nation's classrooms--
 (1) to support and promote the establishment of teacher training programs,
 including the dissemination of effective practices and research findings
 regarding the teaching of writing and administrative activities;
 (2) to support classroom research on effective teaching practice and to
 document student performance; and
 (3) to pay the Federal share of the cost of such programs.
 (b) REQUIREMENTS OF GRANT- The grant shall provide that--
 (1) the grantee will enter into contracts with institutions of higher
 education or other nonprofit educational providers (hereafter in this
 section referred to as `contractors') under which the contractors will
 agree to establish, operate, and provide the non-Federal share of the cost
 of teacher training programs in effective approaches and processes for the
 teaching of writing;
 (2) funds made available by the Secretary to the grantee pursuant to any
 contract entered into under this section will be used to pay the Federal
 share of the cost of establishing and operating teacher training programs
 as provided in paragraph (1); and
 (3) the grantee will meet such other conditions and standards as the Secretary
 determines to be necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of this
 section and will provide such technical assistance as may be necessary to
 carry out the provisions of this section.
 (c) TEACHER TRAINING PROGRAMS- The teacher training programs authorized in
 subsection (a) shall--
 (1) be conducted during the school year and during the summer months;
 (2) train teachers who teach grades kindergarten through college;
 (3) select teachers to become members of a National Writing Project teacher
 network whose members will conduct writing workshops for other teachers in
 the area served by each National Writing Project site; and
 (4) encourage teachers from all disciplines to participate in such teacher
 training programs.
 (d) FEDERAL SHARE-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2) or (3) and for purposes
 of subsection (a), the term `Federal share' means, with respect to the costs
 of teacher training programs authorized in subsection (a), 50 percent of
 such costs to the contractor.
 (2) WAIVER- The Secretary may waive the provisions of paragraph (1) on a
 case-by-case basis if the National Advisory Board described in subsection
 (f) determines, on the basis of financial need, that such waiver is necessary.
 (3) MAXIMUM- (A) The Federal share of the costs of teacher training programs
 conducted pursuant to subsection (a) may not exceed $40,000 for any one
 contractor, or $200,000 for a statewide program administered by any one
 contractor in at least 5 sites throughout the State.
 (B) The grantee under section 202, or any school or institution of higher
 education that receives funds under this section shall not spend more
 than 10 percent of the Federal funds it receives under this section for
 administrative costs.
 (4) SPECIAL RULE- For the purposes of this subsection, the costs of teacher
 programs do not include the administrative costs, publication cost, or the
 cost of providing technical assistance to the grantee.
 (e) CLASSROOM TEACHER GRANTS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The National Writing Project may reserve an amount not
 to exceed 5 percent of the amount appropriated pursuant to the authority
 of this section to make grants, on a competitive basis, to elementary and
 secondary school teachers to enable such teachers to--
 (A) conduct classroom research;
 (B) publish models of student writing;
 (C) conduct research regarding effective practices to improve the teaching
 of writing; and
 (D) conduct other activities to improve the teaching and uses of writing.
 (2) SUPPLEMENT AND NOT SUPPLANT- Grants awarded pursuant to paragraph (1)
 shall be used to supplement and not supplant State and local funds available
 for the purposes set forth in paragraph (1).
 (3) MAXIMUM GRANT AMOUNT- Each grant awarded pursuant to this subsection
 shall not exceed $2,000.
 (f) NATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD-
 (1) ESTABLISHMENT- The National Writing Project shall establish and operate
 a National Advisory Board.
 (2) COMPOSITION- The National Advisory Board established pursuant to paragraph
 (1) shall consist of--
 (A) national educational leaders;
 (B) leaders in the field of writing; and
 (C) such other individuals as the National Writing Project deems necessary.
 (3) DUTIES- The National Advisory Board established pursuant to paragraph
 (1) shall--
 (A) advise the National Writing Project on national issues related to
 student writing and the teaching of writing;
 (B) review the activities and programs of the National Writing Project; and
 (C) support the continued development of the National Writing Project.
 (g) EVALUATION- The Secretary shall reserve not more than $150,000 from the
 total combined amount appropriated pursuant to the authority of this section
 for fiscal years 1991, 1992, and 1993 to conduct an independent evaluation
 by grant or contract of the teacher training programs administered pursuant
 to this Act. Such evaluation shall specify the amount of funds expended by
 the National Writing Project and each contractor receiving assistance under
 this section for administrative costs. The results of such evaluation shall
 be made available to the appropriate committees of the Congress.
 (h) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES-
 (1) GRANTS AUTHORIZED- From amounts available to carry out the provisions of
 this subsection, the Secretary, through the Office of Educational Research
 and Improvement, shall make grants to individuals and institutions of higher
 education to conduct research activities involving the teaching of writing.
 (2) PRIORITY- (A) In awarding grants pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary
 shall give priority to junior researchers.
 (B) The Secretary shall award not less than 25 percent of the funds received
 pursuant to subsection (i)(2) to junior researchers.
 (C) The Secretary shall make available to the National Writing Project
 and other national information dissemination networks the findings of the
 research conducted pursuant to the authority of paragraph (1).
 (i) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- There are authorized to be appropriated for the grant to
 the National Writing Project, $10,000,000 for fiscal year 1991 and such
 sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out the
 provisions of this section.
 (2) RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT- There are authorized to be appropriated
 $500,000 for fiscal year 1991 to carry out the provisions of subsection (h).
 (j) DEFINITIONS- As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `institution of higher education' has the same meaning given
 such term in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965;
 (2) the term `junior researcher' means a researcher at the assistant professor
 rank or the equivalent who has not previously received a Federal research
 grant; and
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Education.
TITLE III--MISCELLANEOUS
Part A--Civic Education Program
SEC. 301. INSTRUCTION ON THE HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES OF DEMOCRACY IN THE
UNITED STATES.
 Part F of title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965
 (20 U.S.C. 3151 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating section 4608 (as added by Public Law 100-297) as
 section 4610; and
 (2) by inserting before section 4610 (as redesignated by paragraph (1)
 of this section) the following:
`SEC. 4609. INSTRUCTION ON THE HISTORY AND PRINCIPLES OF DEMOCRACY IN THE
UNITED STATES.
 `(a) General Authority-
 `(1) PROGRAM ESTABLISHED- The Secretary shall carry out a program to educate
 students about the history and principles of the Constitution of the United
 States, including the Bill of Rights, and to foster civic competence and
 civil responsibility. Such program shall be known as `We the People . . . The
 Citizen and the Constitution'.
 `(2) EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES- The program required by paragraph (1) shall
 continue and expand the educational activities of the National Bicentennial
 Competition of the Constitution and Bill of Rights administered by the
 Center for Civic Education.
 `(3) CONTRACT AUTHORIZED- The Secretary is authorized to enter into a
 contract with the Center for Civic Education to carry out the program
 required by paragraph (1).
 `(b) PROGRAM CONTENT- The education program authorized by this section
 shall provide--
 `(1) a course of instruction on the basic principles of our constitutional
 democracy and the history of the Constitution and Bill of Rights;
 `(2) school and community simulated congressional hearings following the
 course of study at the request of participating schools; and
 `(3) an annual competition of simulated congressional hearings at the
 congressional district, State, and national levels for secondary students
 who wish to participate in such program.
 `(c) PROGRAM PARTICIPANTS- The education program authorized by this section
 shall be made available to public and private elementary schools in the
 435 congressional districts, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin
 Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the District of Columbia.
 `(d) SPECIAL RULE- Funds provided under this section may be used for the
 advanced training of teachers about the Constitution and Bill of Rights
 after the provisions of subsection (b) have been implemented.
 `(e) REPORT- The Secretary shall report on a biennial basis, to the
 appropriate committees of the Congress on the distribution and use of funds
 authorized pursuant to the authority of subsection (f).
 `(f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are authorized to be appropriated
 $5,000,000 for the fiscal year 1991 and such sums as may be necessary
 for each of the fiscal years 1992 and 1993 to carry out the provisions of
 this section.'.
Part B--Law-Related Education Program
SEC. 311. AMENDMENT TO LAW-RELATED EDUCATION PROGRAM.
 Section 1565 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
 U.S.C. 2965) is amended--
 `(1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by inserting `(1)' before `(a)'; and
 (B) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) The Secretary shall give priority for grants and contracts under this
 section to agencies, organizations, and institutions described in paragraph
 (1) that plan to operate statewide programs.
 `(3)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall award
 grants and enter into contracts under this section for periods of 2 or
 3 years.
 `(B) The Secretary may award a grant or enter into a contract under this
 section for a period of less than 2 years in any case in which the Secretary
 determines that special circumstances exist.'; and
 `(2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(d) Applications-
 `(1) Any agency, organization, or institution described in subsection (a)(1)
 that desires to receive a grant or enter into a contract under this section
 shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner,
 and containing or accompanied by such information as the Secretary may
 reasonably require.
 `(2) The Secretary shall convene a panel of experts for purposes of reviewing
 applications submitted under paragraph (1). Such experts shall be individuals
 who have experience in and are familiar with law-related education.'.
TITLE IV--NATIONAL COUNCIL ON EDUCATION STANDARDS AND TESTING
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Council on Education Standards
 and Testing Act'.
SEC. 402. PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
 (a PURPOSE- The purpose of this title is to create a national council to
 provide advice on the desirability and feasibility of national standards
 and testing in education.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) organizations have begun developing national education standards for
 various subject areas and grade levels;
 (2) groups have called for the expansion of national testing for school
 children;
 (3) decisions regarding the desirability and feasibility of additional
 national testing should follow such decisions on national standards for
 education;
 (4) efforts regarding national standards and testing should be undertaken
 with the broadest possible participation by the public; and
 (5) a major national council is needed to assure broad participation by
 the public, to provide a focus for national debate on national education
 standards and testing, and to provide advice on the desirability and
 feasibility of developing national standards and testing.
SEC. 403. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There is established a council to be known as the National Council on
 Education Standards and Testing (in this title referred to as the `Council').
SEC. 404. DUTIES.
 The Council shall advise the American people on--
 (1) whether suitable specific education standards should and can be
 established, such as world class standards, for--
 (A) the knowledge and skills that students should possess and that schools
 should impart in order that American students leave grades 4, 8, and 12
 demonstrating competency in challenging subject matter including English,
 mathematics, science, history, and geography; and
 (B) every school in America to ensure that all students learn to use their
 minds well so that they will be prepared for responsible citizenship,
 further learning, and productive employment in our modern economy; and
 (2) whether, while respecting State and local control of education, an
 appropriate system of voluntary national tests or examinations should and
 can be established, such as American achievement tests, that will provide
 prompt, accurate information to parents, educators, and policymakers on the
 progress being made toward the specific education standards by individual
 students, schools, school systems, States, and the Nation as a whole (if
 such standards can be established). The goal of any such system shall be
 to foster good teaching and learning, as well as to monitor performance.
SEC. 405. REPORTS.
 (a) FINAL REPORT- The Council shall, as soon as possible, but not later
 than December 31, 1991, submit a report to the Congress, the Secretary
 of Education, and the National Education Goals Panel that contains
 recommendations regarding long-term policies, structures, mechanisms, and
 other important considerations with respect to the objectives described
 in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 404. A discussion of the validity,
 reliability, fairness, and costs of implementing a system of voluntary
 national tests or examinations shall also be included in such report.
 (b) INTERIM REPORTS- The Council may submit to the Congress, the Secretary
 of Education, and the National Education Goals Panel interim reports it
 considers appropriate.
SEC. 406. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Council shall be composed of 32 members as follows:
 (1) The Secretary of Education shall appoint 22 members to include at least
 one representative from each of the following:
 (A) The Administration.
 (B) The Commission on Achievement of Necessary Skills.
 (C) The National Assessment Governing Board.
 (D) State legislators.
 (E) Chief State school officers.
 (F) School administrators.
 (G) Elementary or secondary school teachers.
 (H) Institutions of higher education.
 (I) Individuals with expertise in education standards and testing.
 (J) National teacher organizations.
 (2) The Chairperson or a designee of the National Education Goals Panel.
 (3) The Governor designated to serve as Chairperson of the National Education
 Goals Panel for the year succeeding the year in which such panel is meeting
 (or a designee).
 (4) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint 1 member
 (excluding Members of Congress).
 (5) The minority leader of the House of Representatives shall appoint 1
 member (excluding Members of Congress).
 (6) The majority leader of the Senate shall appoint 1 member (excluding
 Members of Congress).
 (7) The minority leader of the Senate shall appoint 1 member (excluding
 Members of Congress).
 (8) The Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor of the House or
 a designee.
 (9) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and Labor of
 the House or a designee.
 (10) The Chairman of the Committee on Labor and Human Resources of the
 Senate or a designee.
 (11) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Labor and Human
 Resources of the Senate or a designee.
 (b) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the manner in
 which the original appointment was made.
 (c) TERM OF APPOINTMENT- Members shall be appointed for the life of the
 Council.
 (d) QUORUM- 17 members of the Council shall constitute a quorum.
 (e) COCHAIRPERSONS- The Chairperson of the National Education Goals Panel or
 a designee and the Governor designated to serve as the Chairperson for the
 succeeding year in which the panel is meeting (or a designee) shall serve
 as cochairpersons of the Council upon the date of the enactment of this title.
 (f) COMPENSATION-
 (1) MEMBERS- Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the Council
 shall each be reimbursed at a rate not to exceed the rate of pay for level
 III of the Executive Schedule for each day (including travel time) during
 which they are engaged in the performance of duties vested in the Council.
 (2) EXCEPTION- Members of the Council who are fulltime officers or employees
 of the United States or Members of Congress shall receive no additional
 compensation by reason of their service on the Council
SEC. 407. DIRECTOR AND STAFF; EXPERT AND CONSULTANTS.
 (a) DIRECTOR- The cochairpersons of the Council shall, without regard to
 the provisions of title 5, United States Code relating to the appointment
 and compensation of officers or employees of the United States, appoint a
 Director to be paid at a rate not to exceed the rate of basic pay for level
 III of the Executive Schedule.
 (b) APPOINTMENT AND PAY OF STAFF- The cochairpersons may appoint personnel
 as they consider appropriate without regard to the provisions of title 5,
 United States Code, governing appointments to the competitive service. The
 staff of the Council may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter
 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, relating
 to classification and General Schedule pay rates. The rate of pay of the
 staff of the Council shall not exceed the rate of basic pay for level V of
 the Executive Schedule.
 (c) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Council may procure temporary and
 intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
 (d) STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Upon the request of the Council, the head
 of any department or agency of the United States is authorized to detail,
 on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that agency to the Council
 to assist the Council in its duties under this title.
SEC. 408. POWERS OF COUNCIL.
 (a) HEARINGS- The Council may, for the purpose of this title, hold hearings,
 sit and act at the times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence,
 the Council considers appropriate. The Council may administer oaths or
 affirmations to witnesses appearing before it.
 (b) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY- Any member or agent of the Council may, if
 authorized by the Council, take any action the Council is authorized to
 take by this section.
 (c) INFORMATION- The Council may secure directly from any department or
 agency of the United States information necessary to enable it to carry
 out this title. Upon request of the Chairperson of the Council, the head
 of a department or agency shall furnish the information to the Council to
 the extent permitted by law.
 (d) GIFTS AND DONATIONS- Subject to the regulations established under
 paragraph (2), the Council may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or donations
 of services or property.
 (2) The Cochairpersons of the Council are authorized to establish regulations
 setting forth the criteria the Council shall use to determine whether
 the acceptance of gifts or donations of services under paragraph (1) would
 reflect unfavorably upon the ability of the Council or any employee to carry
 out its responsibilities or official duties in a fair and objective manner,
 or would compromise the integrity of or the appearance of the integrity of
 a government program or any official involved in such program.
 (e) MAILS- The Council may use the United States mails in the same manner
 and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies of the
 United States.
 (f) SUPPORT SERVICES- The Secretary of Education shall provide to the
 Council, on a reimbursable basis, administrative support services as the
 Council may request.
SEC. 409. FEDERAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ACT.
 Sections 10 and 11 of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) are
 the only sections of such Act that shall apply with respect to the Council.
SEC. 410. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out this title
 which shall remain available until expended or until the termination of
 the Council, whichever occurs first.
SEC. 411. TERMINATION.
 The Council will cease to exist 90 days after submitting its final report.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.