 
--S.680--
S.680
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend the International Travel Act of 1961 to assist in the growth of
international
travel and tourism in the United States, and for other purposes.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCE.
  (a) SHORT TITLE- This Act may be cited as the `Tourism Policy and Export
  Promotion Act of 1992'.
  (b) REFERENCE- Whenever in this Act an amendment or repeal is expressed in
  terms of an amendment to, or repeal of, a section or other provision, the
  reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision
  of the International Travel Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2121 et seq.).
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
  The Congress finds that--
  (1) the travel and tourism industry is the second largest retail or service
  industry in the United States;
  (2) travel and tourism receipts make up over 6.7 percent of the United
  States gross national product;
  (3) in 1991, the travel and tourism industry generated about six million
  jobs directly and about two million five hundred thousand indirectly;
  (4) travel and tourism expenditures in 1991 were approximately
  $352,000,000,000;
  (5) forty-two million international visitors spent approximately
  $64,700,000,000 in the United States in 1991;
  (6) travel and tourism services ranked as the largest United States business
  services export in 1991, providing a United States travel trade balance
  of $16,800,000,000;
  (7) many local communities with significant tourism potential are unable
  to realize the economic and employment opportunities that tourism provides
  because they lack the necessary local resources and expertise needed to
  induce tourism trade;
  (8) increased efforts directed at the promotion of rural tourism will
  contribute to the economic development of rural America and further
  the conservation and promotion of natural, scenic, historic, scientific,
  educational, inspirational, and recreational resources for future generations
  of Americans and foreign visitors;
  (9) foreign tourists entering the United States are frequently faced with
  unnecessary delays at the United States border;
  (10) advanced technologies, industrial targeting, the industrialization of
  the Third World, and the flight of some United States manufacturing capacity
  to overseas locations have affected the international competitiveness of
  the United States;
  (11) exporting those goods and services which United States industry
  can produce at a comparative cost advantage, such as travel and tourism
  services, will be in the Nation's long-term strategic interest; and
  (12) the emergence of democratic governments in the formerly Communist
  nations of Eastern Europe and in the former Soviet Union provide new
  opportunities for United States firms engaged in both the inbound and
  outbound tourism markets.
SEC. 3. SURVEY OF INTERNATIONAL AIR TRAVELERS.
  The Secretary of Commerce, to the extent available resources permit, shall
  improve the survey of international air travelers conducted to provide the
  data needed to estimate the Nation's balance of payments in international
  travel by--
  (1) expanding the survey to cover travel to and from the Middle East,
  Africa, South America, and the Caribbean and enhancing coverage for Mexico,
  Oceania, the Far East, and Europe; and
  (2) improving the methodology for conducting on-board surveys by (A)
  enhancing communications, training, and liaison activities in cooperation
  with participating air carriers, (B) providing for the continuation of
  needed data bases, and (C) utilizing improved sampling procedures.
The Secretary of Commerce shall seek to increase the reporting frequency
of the data provided by Statistics Canada and the Bank of Mexico on
international travel trade between the United States and both Canada and
Mexico. The Secretary shall improve the quarterly statistical report on
United States international travel receipts and payments published in the
Bureau of Economic Analysis document known as `The Survey of Current Services'
and heighten its visibility.
SEC. 4. RURAL TOURISM DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION.
  (a) ESTABLISHMENT OF FOUNDATION- In order to assist in the development
  and promotion of rural tourism, there is established a charitable and
  nonprofit corporation to be known as the Rural Tourism Development Foundation
  (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Foundation').
  (b) FUNCTIONS- The functions of the Foundation shall be the planning,
  development, and implementation of projects and programs which have the
  potential to increase travel and tourism export revenues by attracting
  foreign visitors to rural America. Initially, such projects and programs
  shall include--
  (1) participation in the development and distribution of educational and
  promotional materials pertaining to both private and public attractions
  located in rural areas of the United States, including Federal parks and
  recreational lands, which can be used by foreign visitors;
  (2) development of educational resources to assist in private and public
  rural tourism development; and
  (3) participation in Federal agency outreach efforts to make such resources
  available to private enterprises, State and local governments, and other
  persons and entities interested in rural tourism development.
  (c) BOARD OF DIRECTORS-
  (1) COMPOSITION- (A) The Foundation shall have a Board of Directors
  (hereafter in this section referred to as the `Board') that--
  (i) during its first two years shall consist of nine voting members; and
  (ii) thereafter shall consist of those nine members plus up to six additional
  voting members as determined in accordance with the bylaws of the Foundation.
  (B)(i) The Under Secretary of Commerce for Travel and Tourism shall,
  within six months after the date of enactment of this Act, appoint the
  initial nine voting members of the Board and thereafter shall appoint the
  successors of each of three such members, as provided by such bylaws.
  (ii) The voting members of the Board, other than those referred to in
  clause (i), shall be appointed in accordance with procedures established
  by such bylaws.
  (C) The voting members of the Board shall be individuals who are not
  Federal officers or employees and who have demonstrated an interest in rural
  tourism development. Of such voting members, at least a majority shall have
  experience and expertise in tourism trade promotion, at least one shall have
  experience and expertise in resource conservation, at least one shall have
  experience and expertise in financial administration in a fiduciary capacity,
  at least one shall be a representative of an Indian tribe who has experience
  and expertise in rural tourism on an Indian reservation, at least one shall
  represent a regional or national organization or association with a major
  interest in rural tourism development or promotion, and at least one shall
  be a representative of a State who is responsible for tourism promotion.
  (D) Voting members of the Board shall each serve a term of six years,
  except that--
  (i) initial terms shall be staggered to assure continuity of administration;
  (ii) if a person is appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the
  expiration of the term of the person's predecessor, that person shall
  serve only for the remainder of the predecessor's term; and
  (iii) any such appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made within sixty
  days after the vacancy occurs.
  (2) EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS- The Under Secretary of Commerce for Travel and
  Tourism and representatives of Federal agencies with responsibility for
  Federal recreational sites in rural areas (including the National Park
  Service, Bureau of Land Management, Forest Service, Corps of Engineers,
  Bureau of Indian Affairs, Tennessee Valley Authority, and such other
  Federal agencies as the Board determines appropriate) shall be nonvoting
  ex-officio members of the Board.
  (3) CHAIR- The Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Board shall be elected
  by the voting members of the Board for terms of two years.
  (4) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet at the call of the Chairman and there
  shall be at least two meetings each year. A majority of the voting members
  of the Board serving at any one time shall constitute a quorum for the
  transaction of business. The Foundation shall have an official seal, which
  shall be judicially noticed. Voting membership on the Board shall not be
  deemed to be an office within the meaning of the laws of the United States.
  (d) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- No compensation shall be paid to the members
  of the Board for their services as members, but they may be reimbursed
  for actual and necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by
  them in the performance of their duties as such members out of Foundation
  funds available to the Board for such purposes.
  (e) Acceptance of Gifts, Devises, and Bequests-
  (1) IN GENERAL- The Foundation is authorized to accept, receive, solicit,
  hold, administer, and use any gifts, devises, or bequests, either absolutely
  or in trust, of real or personal property or any income therefrom or
  other interest therein for the benefit of or in connection with rural
  tourism, except that the Foundation may not accept any such gift, devise,
  or bequest which entails any expenditure other than from the resources of
  the Foundation. A gift, devise, or bequest may be accepted by the Foundation
  even though it is encumbered, restricted, or subject to beneficial interests
  of private persons if any current or future interest therein is for the
  benefit of rural tourism.
  (2) INDIANS- A gift, devise, or bequest accepted by the Foundation for
  the benefit of or in connection with rural tourism on Indian reservations,
  pursuant to the Act of February 14, 1931 (25 U.S.C. 451), shall be maintained
  in a separate accounting for the benefit of Indian tribes in the development
  of tourism on Indian reservations.
  (f) INVESTMENTS- Except as otherwise required by the instrument of
  transfer, the Foundation may sell, lease, invest, reinvest, retain, or
  otherwise dispose of or deal with any property or income thereof as the
  Board may from time to time determine. The Foundation shall not engage in
  any business, nor shall the Foundation make any investment that may not
  lawfully be made by a trust company in the District of Columbia, except
  that the Foundation may make any investment authorized by the instrument
  of transfer and may retain any property accepted by the Foundation.
  (g) PERPETUAL SUCCESSION; LIABILITY OF BOARD MEMBERS- The Foundation shall
  have perpetual succession, with all the usual powers and obligations of
  a corporation acting as a trustee, including the power to sue and to be
  sued in its own name, but the members of the Board shall not be personally
  liable, except for malfeasance.
  (h) CONTRACTUAL POWER- The Foundation shall have the power to enter into
  contracts, to execute instruments, and generally to do any and all lawful
  acts necessary or appropriate to its purposes.
  (i) Administration-
  (1) IN GENERAL- In carrying out the provisions of this section, the Board
  may adopt bylaws, rules, and regulations necessary for the administration
  of its functions and may hire officers and employees and contract for any
  other necessary services. Such officers and employees shall be appointed
  without regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing
  appointments in the competitive service and may be paid without regard to
  the provisions of chapters 51 and 53 of such title relating to classification
  and General Schedule pay rates.
  (2) SERVICES- The Secretary of Commerce may accept the voluntary and
  uncompensated services of the Foundation, the Board, and the officers and
  employees of the Foundation in the performance of the functions authorized
  under this section, without regard to section 1342 of title 31, United
  States Code, or the civil service classification laws, rules, or regulations.
  (3) CONSTRUCTION- Neither an officer or employee hired under paragraph
  (1) nor an individual who provides services under paragraph (2) shall be
  considered a Federal employee for any purpose other than for purposes of
  chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, relating to compensation for
  work injuries, and chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, relating
  to tort claims.
  (j) EXEMPTION FROM TAXES; CONTRIBUTIONS- The Foundation and any income
  or property received or owned by it, and all transactions relating to
  such income or property, shall be exempt from all Federal, State, and
  local taxation with respect thereto. The Foundation may, however, in the
  discretion of the Board, contribute toward the costs of local government
  in amounts not in excess of those which it would be obligated to pay
  such government if it were not exempt from taxation by virtue of this
  subsection or by virtue of its being a charitable and nonprofit corporation
  and may agree so to contribute with respect to property transferred to it
  and the income derived therefrom if such agreement is a condition of the
  transfer. Contributions, gifts, and other transfers made to or for the use
  of the Foundation shall be regarded as contributions, gifts, or transfers
  to or for the use of the United States.
  (k) LIABILITY OF UNITED STATES- The United States shall not be liable for
  any debts, defaults, acts, or omissions of the Foundation.
  (l) ANNUAL REPORT- The Foundation shall, as soon as practicable after the
  end of each fiscal year, transmit to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
  and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
  of the House of Representatives an annual report of its proceedings and
  activities, including a full and complete statement of its receipts,
  expenditures, and investments.
  (m) DEFINITIONS- As used in this section--
  (1) the term `Indian reservation' has the meaning given the term
  `reservation' in section 3(d) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25
  U.S.C. 1452(d));
  (2) the term `Indian tribe' has the meaning given that term in section
  4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25
  U.S.C. 450b(e));
  (3) the term `local government' has the meaning given that term in section
  3371(2) of title 5, United States Code; and
  (4) the term `rural tourism' has the meaning given that term by the
  Secretary of Commerce and shall include activities related to travel and
  tourism that occur on Federal recreational sites, on Indian reservations,
  and in the territories, possessions, and commonwealths of the United States.
  (n) ASSISTANCE BY SECRETARY OF COMMERCE- Section 202(a) of the International
  Travel Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2123(a)) is amended by striking paragraph
  (15) and inserting in lieu thereof the following new paragraph:
  `(15) may assist the Rural Tourism Development Foundation, established
  under section 4 of the Tourism Policy and Export Promotion Act of 1992,
  in the development and promotion of rural tourism.'.
SEC. 5. POLICY CLARIFICATIONS.
  Section 101(b) (22 U.S.C. 2121(b)) is amended--
  (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
  `(1) optimize the contributions of the tourism and recreation industries
  to the position of the United States with respect to international
  competitiveness, economic prosperity, full employment, and the balance
  of payments;';
  (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (12) as paragraphs (6) through
  (16), respectively; and
  (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (1) the following new
  paragraphs:
  `(2) increase United States export earnings from United States tourism
  and transportation services traded internationally;
  `(3) ensure the orderly growth and development of tourism;
  `(4) coordinate and encourage the development of the tourism industry in
  rural communities which--
  `(A) have been severely affected by the decline of agriculture, family
  farming, or the extraction or manufacturing industries, or by the closing
  of military bases; and
  `(B) have the potential necessary to support and sustain an economy based
  on tourism;
  `(5) promote increased and more effective investment in international
  tourism by the States, local governments, and cooperative tourism marketing
  programs;'.
SEC. 6. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.
  (a) DUTIES OF SECRETARY- Section 201 (22 U.S.C. 2122) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as paragraphs (3) through
  (7), respectively;
  (2) in paragraph (3) (as so redesignated) by striking `tourist facilities,'
  and all that follows and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `receptive,
  linguistic, informational, currency exchange, meal, and package tour
  services required by the international market;';
  (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (1) the following:
  `(2) provide export promotion services that will increase the number
  of States, local governments (as defined in section 3371(2) of title 5,
  United States Code), and companies in the United States that sell their
  tourism services in the international market, expand the number of foreign
  markets in which exporting States, cities, and companies are active, and
  inform States, cities, and companies in the United States regarding the
  specialized services the international market requires;';
  (4) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) (as so redesignated)
  and inserting in lieu thereof the following: `and the use of other United
  States providers of travel products and services; and'; and
  (5) by inserting immediately after such paragraph (7) the following new
  paragraph:
  `(8) advise and provide information and technical assistance to United States
  firms seeking to facilitate travel to and from the emerging democracies
  of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union and compile statistics,
  as available, regarding such travel.'.
  (b) PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES- Section 202(a) (22 U.S.C. 2123(a)) is amended--
  (1) by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:
  `(5) shall provide financial assistance under section 203 to cooperative
  tourism marketing programs;';
  (2) in paragraph (9), by striking `United States travel and tourism
  interests' and inserting in lieu thereof `the United States national
  tourism interest'; and
  (3) in paragraph (12), by inserting immediately before the semicolon at
  the end the following: `and the use of other United States providers of
  travel products and services'.
  (c) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 202 (22 U.S.C. 2123)
  is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence of subsection (c), by striking `paragraph (5)
  of subsection (a)' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 203';
  (2) in the second sentence of subsection (c), by striking `paragraph'
  and inserting in lieu thereof `subsection';
  (3) in the third sentence of subsection (c), by striking `paragraph (5)
  of subsection (a) of this section' and inserting in lieu thereof `section
  203'; and
  (4) in subsection (d), by striking `paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of
  this section' and inserting in lieu thereof `section 203'.
SEC. 7. TOURISM TRADE DEVELOPMENT.
  Section 202 (22 U.S.C. 2123) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(e)(1) The Secretary's tourism trade development efforts shall focus on
  the markets which have the greatest potential for increasing travel and
  tourism revenues.
  `(2) By October 1 of each year (commencing October 1, 1993), the Secretary
  shall publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting comment, from
  persons interested in tourism trade, concerning markets that would be an
  appropriate focus of tourism trade development efforts to be carried out
  in the twelve-month period that begins twelve months after the notice
  is published.
  `(3) Not later than three months after the notice is published under
  paragraph (2), the Secretary shall select the markets that the Secretary
  determines are an appropriate focus of tourism trade development efforts to
  be carried out in the twelve-month period described in paragraph (2). The
  selection shall be announced by publication in the Federal Register.
  `(4) At the same time the Secretary announces the selection of markets
  under paragraph (3), the Secretary shall issue a request for proposals from
  cooperative tourism marketing programs to develop and implement tourism
  trade development programs applicable to the markets so selected. The
  Secretary shall provide financial assistance in accordance with section 203
  to carry out proposals submitted under this subparagraph. Such financial
  assistance shall be provided on or before September 30 of the year in
  which the markets are selected under paragraph (3).
  `(5) During each twelve-month period described in paragraph (2), tourism
  trade development efforts shall be directed at the markets selected under
  paragraph (3).'.
SEC. 8. TOURISM MARKETING PROGRAMS.
  (a) FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE- Sections 203 and 204 (22 U.S.C. 2123a and 2123b)
  are repealed and the following new section is inserted immediately after
  section 202:
  `SEC. 203. (a) The Secretary shall provide financial assistance to
  cooperative tourism marketing programs in accordance with this section.
  `(b)(1) To be eligible for financial assistance under subsection (a),
  a cooperative tourism marketing program shall, at a minimum--
  `(A) involve the participation of--
  `(i) two or more States;
  `(ii) one or more States and one or more political subdivisions of States; or
  `(iii) one or more States and one or more nonprofit organizations;
  `(B) be established for the purpose of increasing the number of foreign
  visitors to the region in which such States or local governments are
  located; and
  `(C) have a written regional tourism marketing plan which includes
  advertising, publication of promotional materials, or other promotional
  or market research activities designed to increase the number of foreign
  visitors to such region.
  `(2) Financial assistance may be provided under subsection (a) if the
  applicant for the assistance demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
  Secretary that the assistance will be used for a purpose described in
  subsection (c) and that--
  `(A) such cooperative tourism marketing program for which the financial
  assistance will be provided will increase the travel of foreign visitors
  to the region for which the assistance is sought;
  `(B) such program will contribute to the economic well-being of such region;
  `(C) such region is developing or has developed a regional transportation
  system that will enhance travel to the facilities and attractions in such
  region; and
  `(D) such program will focus its efforts on the countries in the markets
  selected by the Secretary under section 202(e)(3).
  `(c) Financial assistance provided under subsection (a) may be used for
  the purpose of--
  `(1) promoting or marketing to foreign visitors or potential foreign
  visitors the tourism and recreational opportunities in the region for
  which such financial assistance is sought;
  `(2) targeting foreign visitors to develop or enhance their interest in
  tourism and recreational opportunities in such region;
  `(3) encouraging the development by such cooperative tourism marketing
  program of regional strategies for international tourism promotion and
  marketing; or
  `(4) developing and implementing tourism trade development programs
  applicable to markets selected under section 202(e)(3).
  `(d) In connection with financial assistance provided under subsection
  (a), a cooperative tourism marketing program may enter into agreements with
  individuals and private profit and nonprofit businesses and organizations who
  will assist in carrying out the purposes for which such financial assistance
  is provided. Such an agreement shall be disclosed in any application for
  financial assistance under subsection (a) and such an application may be
  approved by the Secretary only if the Secretary finds that such agreement
  meets all applicable legal requirements and is consistent with the purposes
  of this Act.
  `(e) After notice and opportunity for public comment and within one hundred
  and eighty days after the date of enactment of the Tourism Policy and Export
  Promotion Act of 1992, the Secretary shall issue rules and guidelines
  to carry out this section. Proposed rules and guidelines shall be issued
  within ninety days after such date of enactment.
  `(f)(1) The total amount of financial assistance that may be provided under
  subsection (a) shall, in each of the fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996,
  be not less than 25 percent of the amount appropriated to the Secretary
  for such fiscal year under section 304.
  `(2) Not more than 50 percent of the financial assistance provided under
  subsection (a) for any fiscal year may be used for tourism trade development
  designed to promote travel and tourism in the United States generally
  without promotion of a particular area of the United States. Cooperative
  tourism marketing programs receiving financial assistance under subsection
  (a) shall pool 50 percent of their financial assistance for such general
  tourism trade development in each market selected by the Secretary under
  section 202(e)(3). The Secretary shall provide technical assistance to
  recipients of such financial assistance and coordinate such efforts.'.
  (b) FEDERAL SHARE OF PROJECT COSTS- The first sentence of section 202(c)
  (22 U.S.C. 2123(c)) is amended by striking all after `sources' and inserting
  in lieu thereof a period and the following new sentence: `Any recipient
  of financial assistance under section 203 shall provide matching funds
  (consisting of actual dollar expenditures on the program for which such
  financial assistance is provided) equal to at least 25 percent of such
  financial assistance.'.
SEC. 9. TOURISM TRADE BARRIERS.
  Title II (22 U.S.C. 2122 et seq.), as amended by section 8 of this Act,
  is further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
  `SEC. 204. For each calendar year beginning with calendar year 1994,
  the Secretary shall--
  `(1) identify and analyze acts, policies, or practices of each foreign
  country that constitute significant barriers to, or distortions of, United
  States travel and tourism exports;
  `(2) make an estimate of the trade-distorting impact on United States
  commerce of any act, policy, or practice identified under paragraph (1); and
  `(3) make an estimate, if feasible, of the value of additional United
  States travel and tourism exports that would have been exported to each
  foreign country during such calendar year if each of such acts, policies,
  and practices of such country did not exist.'.
SEC. 10. ACTION TO FACILITATE ENTRY OF FOREIGN TOURISTS.
  Title II (22 U.S.C. 2122 et seq.), as amended by section 9, is further
  amended by adding at the end the following new section:
  `SEC. 205. The Secretary shall, in coordination with appropriate Federal
  agencies, take appropriate action to ensure that foreign tourists are not
  unnecessarily delayed when entering the United States and to ensure that
  the international processing standard of the International Civil Aviation
  Organization is met.'.
SEC. 11. PERFORMANCE OF THE UNITED STATES TRAVEL AND TOURISM ADMINISTRATION.
  Title II (22 U.S.C. 2122 et seq.), as amended by section 10 of this Act,
  is further amended by adding at the end the following:
  `SEC. 206. (a) Beginning October 1, 1994, and annually thereafter,
  the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
  Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
  of the House of Representatives the goals of the United States Travel
  and Tourism Administration for the applicable forthcoming fiscal year,
  including quantifiable measures on which such Administration's performance
  can be evaluated. Such goals shall include--
  `(1) the number of written and telephone inquiries regarding the possibility
  of foreign travel to the United States expected to be generated by the
  financial assistance provided to cooperative tourism marketing programs
  under section 203;
  `(2) the number of tour packages for foreign visitors to the United States
  expected to be sold in connection with such financial assistance;
  `(3) the number of tourists from countries in markets selected under section
  202(e)(3) expected to visit the United States destinations being promoted
  in such countries in connection with such financial assistance; and
  `(4) the actions recommended to eliminate acts, policies, and practices of
  foreign countries identified under section 204 that constitute significant
  barriers to or distortions of United States travel and tourism exports.
  `(b) By December 31, 1995, and annually thereafter, the Secretary
  shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
  of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of
  Representatives a report outlining the degree to which the goals set forth
  for the prior fiscal year have been attained. Such report shall include--
  `(1) the number of written and telephone inquiries regarding the possibility
  of foreign travel to the United States actually received by the Secretary
  and by persons receiving financial assistance under section 203;
  `(2) the number of tour packages for foreign visitors to the United States
  actually sold in connection with such financial assistance;
  `(3) the number of tourists from countries in markets selected under
  section 202(e)(3) that actually visited the United States destinations being
  promoted in such countries in connection with such financial assistance;
  `(4) an evaluation of the effectiveness of such financial assistance; and
  `(5) an evaluation of the effectiveness of any actions recommended
  under subsection (a)(4) which were taken to eliminate acts, policies,
  and practices that constitute significant barriers to, or distortions of,
  United States travel and tourism exports.
  `(c) The Secretary shall collect from persons receiving financial assistance
  under section 203 such information as may be necessary to enable the
  Secretary to comply with subsections (a) and (b). The Secretary may
  condition the receipt of such financial assistance on the agreement of
  the recipient to provide such information to the Secretary at such times
  and in such manner and form as the Secretary deems appropriate.'.
SEC. 12. ADMINISTRATION.
  Section 301(a) (22 U.S.C. 2124(a)) is amended--
  (1) by striking the third and fourth sentences;
  (2) by inserting `(1)' immediately after `(a)'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
  `(2) The Secretary shall designate a Deputy Under Secretary for Tourism
  Trade Development who shall be drawn from, and serve as a member of, the
  career service. The Deputy Under Secretary shall have responsibility for--
  `(A) facilitating the interaction between industry and government concerning
  tourism trade development;
  `(B) directing and managing field operations;
  `(C) directing program evaluation research and industry statistical research;
  `(D) developing an outreach program to those communities with underutilized
  tourism potential to assist them in development of strategies for expansion
  of tourism trade;
  `(E) implementing the program to provide financial assistance under section
  203 in support of non-Federal tourism trade development activities; and
  `(F) performing such other functions as the Under Secretary may assign.'.
SEC. 13. COORDINATION.
  Section 301 (22 U.S.C. 2124) is amended by adding at the end the following
  new subsection:
  `(c) The Under Secretary of Commerce for Travel and Tourism shall continue
  to seek the assistance of the United States and Foreign Commercial Service
  and shall continue to be available to assist the United States Travel and
  Tourism Administration at locations identified by the Under Secretary, in
  consultation with the Director General of the United States and Foreign
  Commercial Service, as necessary to assist the Administration's foreign
  offices in stimulating and encouraging travel to the United States by
  foreign residents and in carrying out other powers and duties of the
  Secretary specified in section 202.'.
SEC. 14. LIMITATION ON CERTAIN EXPENDITURES.
  Section 301 (22 U.S.C. 2124), as amended by section 13, is further amended
  by adding at the end the following new subsection:
  `(d) The expenditures for personnel compensation, rental payments,
  communications, utilities, miscellaneous charges, and equipment shall
  not exceed--
  `(1) in fiscal year 1993, 55 percent of the amount appropriated to the
  Secretary under section 304;
  `(2) in fiscal year 1994, 52.5 percent of the amount appropriated to the
  Secretary under section 304; and
  `(3) in fiscal year 1995 and in subsequent fiscal years, 50 percent of
  the amount appropriated to the Secretary under section 304.'.
SEC. 15. TOURISM POLICY COUNCIL.
  (a) MEMBERSHIP- Section 302(b)(1) (22 U.S.C. 2124a(b)(1)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) and (I) as subparagraphs (O) and
  (P); and
  (2) by inserting immediately after subparagraph (G) the following new
  subparagraphs:
  `(H) the Secretary of Agriculture;
  `(I) the Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority;
  `(J) the Commanding General of the Corps of Engineers of the Army, within
  the Department of Defense;
  `(K) the Administrator of the Small Business Administration;
  `(L) the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service;
  `(M) the Chief Executive Officer of the National Railroad Passenger
  Corporation;
  `(N) the Commissioner of Customs;'.
  (b) DETAILS- Section 302(d) (22 U.S.C. 2124a(d)) is amended by adding at
  the end the following new paragraph:
  `(4)(A) Every year, upon designation by the Secretary in accordance with
  subparagraph (B), up to three Federal departments and agencies represented
  on the Council shall each detail to the Council for that year one staff
  person and associated resources.
  `(B) In making the designation referred to in subparagraph (A), the
  Secretary shall designate a different group of agencies and departments
  each year and shall not redesignate any agency or department until all
  the other agencies and departments represented on the Council have been
  designated the same number of years.'.
SEC. 16. ADVISORY BOARD.
  (a) MEMBERSHIP- Section 303(a)(3) (22 U.S.C. 2124b(a)(3)) is amended--
  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking `and';
  (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking `one shall be a representative of the
  States who is' and inserting in lieu thereof `two shall be representatives
  of the States who are' and by striking the period at the end and inserting
  in lieu thereof `; and'; and
  (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
  `(C) at least one shall be a representative of a city who is knowledgeable
  of tourism promotion.'.
  (b) TERMS- The last sentence of section 303(b) (22 U.S.C. 2124b(b)) is
  amended by striking `two consecutive terms of three years each' and inserting
  in lieu thereof `six consecutive years or nine years in the aggregate'.
  (c) ADVICE- The first sentence of section 303(f) (22 U.S.C. 2124b(f))
  is amended by striking `and shall advise' and all that follows through
  `202(a)(15)'.
SEC. 17. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
  Section 304 (22 U.S.C. 2126) is amended--
  (1) in the first sentence, by inserting immediately before the period
  the following: `, not to exceed $21,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, not to
  exceed $22,500,000 for fiscal year 1994, not to exceed $24,000,000 for
  fiscal year 1995, and not to exceed $26,000,000 for fiscal year 1996'; and
  (2) by striking the last two sentences and inserting in lieu thereof the
  following: `Funds appropriated under this section may be expended by the
  Secretary without regard to sections 501 and 3702 of title 44, United
  States Code. Funds appropriated under this section for the printing of
  travel promotional materials shall remain available for 2 fiscal years.'.
SEC. 18. REPORT ON TOURISM AND TRAVEL ACTIVITIES.
  The Secretary of Commerce shall, within 18 months after the date of the
  enactment of this Act, report to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
  Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of
  the House of Representatives on--
  (1) the status of the actions required by section 3 and the desirability
  and feasibility of publishing international travel receipts and payments
  on a monthly basis;
  (2) the Secretary's actions under section 201(8) of the International Travel
  Act of 1961 (as amended by section 6 of this Act), regarding the inbound and
  outbound tourism trade between the United States and emerging democracies
  of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union (including statistics, as
  available, on the number of inbound and outbound tourists, receipts from
  and expenditures by such tourists, the number of tourists traveling into
  and out of Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union on American carriers,
  and other relevant matters);
  (3) the activities of the Department of Commerce and other Federal agencies
  to increase tourism opportunities for, and encourage travel by, disabled
  persons; and
  (4) efforts undertaken under section 205 of the International Travel Act of
  1961 (as amended by section 13 of this Act) to improve visitor facilitation
  and the effect on United States travel and tourism as a result of those
  improvements.
SEC. 19. REPORT ON FOREIGN OFFICES.
  (a) REPORT BY SECRETARY- The Secretary of Commerce shall, within one
  year after the date of enactment of this Act, transmit to the Committee
  on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee
  on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the
  offices of the United States Travel and Tourism Administration located in
  foreign countries.
  (b) CONTENTS- The report required by subsection (a) shall include the
  following:
  (1) DESCRIPTION OF OFFICES- A description of each foreign office of the
  United States Travel and Tourism Administration, including the number of
  United States national employees, foreign national employees, and contract
  personnel who perform duties for the foreign office and a statement as to how
  many of each category of employees or personnel are part-time and full-time.
  (2) INFORMATION ON LOCAL LAWS- Information on the laws of the country
  in which each foreign office is located. The information shall state the
  country's legal requirements concerning the termination or reassignment
  of employees or contract personnel, any actions altering the terms or
  conditions of employment that will result in a requirement to pay additional
  compensation to the affected employee, and the legally mandated duties to
  affected employees and contract personnel where an entire foreign office
  is closed after appropriate notice.
  (3) EXISTING LEASES- Information on all existing leases of office space
  (or space sharing arrangements with the United States embassy) applicable
  to each foreign office, including an analysis of the Secretary's ability
  to terminate such leases or other arrangements and the costs associated
  with such termination.
  (4) COST REDUCTIONS AND MARKETING EFFICIENCIES- Analysis of and
  recommendations for possible cost reductions and marketing efficiencies
  with respect to the activities of foreign offices, including the advantages
  and disadvantages of consolidating foreign office functions by establishing
  three regional offices of the United States Travel and Tourism Administration
  based in and responsible for the following respective geographic areas:
  (A) Europe and Africa.
  (B) Asia and the Pacific region.
  (C) North America, South America, and the Caribbean region.
  (5) ORGANIZATIONAL FLEXIBILITY- Analysis and recommendations concerning
  methods for increasing organizational flexibility (particularly with respect
  to the establishment, operations, closing, and relocation of foreign
  offices) in response to changing market conditions, fiscal constraints,
  and policy conditions.
  (c) DELAY IN CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS- At offices of the United
  States Travel and Tourism Administration located in foreign countries--
  (1) no new foreign national employees nor contract personnel may be hired,
  except for employees or contract personnel that directly replace foreign
  national employees or contract personnel; and
  (2) no new leases of office space, nor renewals of existing leases for
  longer than two years, may be executed,
until six months after the report required by subsection (a) is received.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.