 
--S.749--
S.749
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To rename and expand the boundaries of the Mound City Group National Monument
in Ohio.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. RENAMING.
 The Mound City Group National Monument established by proclamation of the
 President (Proclamation No. 1653, 42 Stat. 2298) and expanded by section
 701 of Public Law 96-607 (94 Stat. 3540), shall, on and after the date of
 enactment of this Act, be known as the `Hopewell Culture National Historical
 Park'. Any reference to the Mound City Group National Monument in any law,
 regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States
 shall be considered to be a reference to the Hopewell Culture National
 Historical Park.
SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF BOUNDARIES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The boundaries of the Hopewell Culture National Historical
 Park (referred to as the `park') are revised to include the lands within
 the areas marked for inclusion in the monument as generally depicted on--
 (1) the map entitled `Hopeton Earthworks' numbered 353-80025 and dated
 July 1987;
 (2) the map entitled `High Banks Works' numbered 353-80027 and dated
 July 1987;
 (3) the map entitled `Hopewell Mound Group' numbered 353-80029 and dated
 July 1987; and
 (4) the map entitled `Seip Earthworks' numbered 353-80033 and dated July 1987.
 (b) PUBLIC INSPECTION OF MAPS- Each map described in subsection (a) shall
 be on file and available for public inspection in the office of the Director
 of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
 (c) ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARIES- The Secretary of the Interior (referred to
 as the `Secretary') may, by notice in the Federal Register after receipt
 of public comment, make minor adjustments in the boundaries of areas added
 to the park by subsection (a) and other areas of the park: Provided, That
 any such minor boundary adjustments cumulatively shall not cause the total
 acreage of the park to increase more than 10 per centum above the existing
 acreage of Mound City Group National Monument, plus the acreage of the
 inclusions authorized under section 2(a).
 (d) ACQUISITION OF LANDS- (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary may
 acquire lands and interests in land within the areas added to the park by
 subsection (a) by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds,
 or exchange.
 (2)(A) Lands and interests in land owned by the State of Ohio or a political
 subdivision thereof may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
 (B) Lands and interests in land may be acquired by purchase at a price based
 on the fair market value thereof as determined by independent appraisal,
 consistent with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property
 Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.).
SEC. 3. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS.
 The Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement with the Ohio Historical
 Society, the Archeological Conservancy, and other public and private entities
 for consultation and assistance in the interpretation and management of
 the park.
SEC. 4. STUDIES.
 (a) AREAS ADDED BY THIS ACT- The Secretary shall conduct archeological
 studies of the areas added to the park by section 2(a) and adjacent areas
 to ensure that the boundaries of those areas encompass the lands that are
 needed to provide adequate protection of the significant archeological
 resources of those areas.
 (b) OTHER AREAS- The Secretary shall conduct archeological studies of the
 areas described as the `Spruce Hill Works', the `Harness Group', and the
 `Cedar Bank Works', and may conduct archeological studies of other areas
 significant to Hopewellian culture, to evaluate the desirability of adding
 them to the park, and shall report to Congress on any such areas that are
 recommended for addition to the park.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary for the
 acquisition of lands and interests in land within the park, the conduct
 of archeological studies on lands within and adjacent to the park, and the
 development of facilities for interpretation of the park.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.