 
--S.759--
S.759
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend certain trademark laws to clarify that States, instrumentalities
of States, and officers and employees of States acting in their official
capacity, are subject to suit in Federal court by any person for infringement
of trademarks, and that all the remedies can be obtained in such suit that
can be obtained in a suit against a private entity.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Trademark Remedy Clarification Act'.
SEC. 2. REFERENCE TO THE TRADEMARK ACT OF 1946.
  Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an amendment
  is expressed in terms of an amendment to a section or other provision, the
  reference shall be considered to be made to a section or other provision
  of the Act entitled `An Act to provide for the registration and protection
  of trademarks used in commerce, to carry out the provisions of certain
  international conventions, and for other purposes', approved July 5, 1946
  (15 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.) (commonly referred to as the Trademark Act of 1946).
SEC. 3. LIABILITY OF STATES, INSTRUMENTALITIES OF STATES, AND STATE OFFICIALS.
  (a) LIABILITY AND REMEDIES- Section 32(1) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1114(1))
  is amended by adding at the end thereof the following:
  `As used in this subsection, the term `any person' includes any State,
  any instrumentality of a State, and any officer or employee of a State
  or instrumentality of a State acting in his or her official capacity. Any
  State, and any such instrumentality, officer, or employee, shall be subject
  to the provisions of this Act in the same manner and to the same extent
  as any nongovernmental entity.'.
  (b) LIABILITY OF STATES, INSTRUMENTALITIES OF STATES, AND STATE OFFICIALS-
  The Act is amended by inserting after section 39 (15 U.S.C. 1121) the
  following new section:
  `SEC. 40. (a) Any State, instrumentality of a State or any officer or
  employee of a State or instrumentality of a State acting in his or her
  official capacity, shall not be immune, under the eleventh amendment
  of the Constitution of the United States or under any other doctrine of
  sovereign immunity, from suit in Federal court by any person, including
  any governmental or nongovernmental entity for any violation under this Act.
  `(b) In a suit described in subsection (a) for a violation described in
  that subsection, remedies (including remedies both at law and in equity)
  are available for the violation to the same extent as such remedies are
  available for such a violation in a suit against any person other than a
  State, instrumentality of a State, or officer or employee of a State or
  instrumentality of a State acting in his or her official capacity. Such
  remedies include injunctive relief under section 34, actual damages, profits,
  costs and attorney's fees under section 35, destruction of infringing
  articles under section 36, the remedies provided for under sections 32,
  37, 38, 42 and 43, and for any other remedies provided under this Act.'.
  (c) FALSE DESIGNATION OF ORIGIN AND FALSE DESCRIPTIONS FORBIDDEN- Section
  43(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1125(a)) is amended--
  (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and
  (B), respectively;
  (2) by inserting `(1)' after `(a)'; and
  (3) by adding at the end thereof:
  `(2) As used in this subsection, the term `any person' includes any State,
  instrumentality of a State or employee of a State or instrumentality of
  a State acting in his or her official capacity. Any State, and any such
  instrumentality, officer, or employee, shall be subject to the provisions
  of this Act in the same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental
  entity.'.
  (d) DEFINITION- Section 45 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1127) is amended by
  inserting after the fourth undesignated paragraph the following:
  `The term `person' also includes any State, any instrumentality of a State,
  and any officer or employee of a State or instrumentality of a State acting
  in his or her official capacity. Any State, and any such instrumentality,
  officer, or employee, shall be subject to the provisions of this Act in
  the same manner and to the same extent as any nongovernmental entity.'.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect with respect to violations
  that occur on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.