 
--S.756--
S.756
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To amend title 17, United States Code, the copyright renewal provisions, and
for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Copyright Amendments Act of 1992'.
TITLE I--RENEWAL OF COPYRIGHT
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be referred to as the `Copyright Renewal Act of 1992'.
SEC. 102. COPYRIGHT RENEWAL PROVISIONS.
 (a) DURATION OF COPYRIGHT: SUBSISTING COPYRIGHTS- Section 304(a) of title
 17, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
 `(a) COPYRIGHTS IN THEIR FIRST TERM ON JANUARY 1, 1978- (1)(A) Any copyright,
 the first term of which is subsisting on January 1, 1978, shall endure for
 28 years from the date it was originally secured.
 `(B) In the case of--
 `(i) any posthumous work or of any periodical, cyclopedic, or other composite
 work upon which the copyright was originally secured by the proprietor
 thereof, or
 `(ii) any work copyrighted by a corporate body (otherwise than as assignee
 or licensee of the individual author) or by an employer for whom such work
 is made for hire,
the proprietor of such copyright shall be entitled to a renewal and extension
of the copyright in such work for the further term of 47 years.
 `(C) In the case of any other copyrighted work, including a contribution by an
 individual author to a periodical or to a cyclopedic or other composite work--
 `(i) the author of such work, if the author is still living,
 `(ii) the widow, widower, or children of the author, if the author is
 not living,
 `(iii) the author's executors, if such author, widow, widower, or children
 are not living, or
 `(iv) the author's next of kin, in the absence of a will of the author,
shall be entitled to a renewal and extension of the copyright in such work
for a further term of 47 years.
 `(2)(A) At the expiration of the original term of copyright in a work
 specified in paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection, the copyright shall endure
 for a renewed and extended further term of 47 years, which--
 `(i) if an application to register a claim to such further term has been
 made to the Copyright Office within 1 year before the expiration of the
 original term of copyright, and the claim is registered, shall vest, upon
 the beginning of such further term, in the proprietor of the copyright who
 is entitled to claim the renewal of copyright at the time the application
 is made; or
 `(ii) if no such application is made or the claim pursuant to such application
 is not registered, shall vest, upon the beginning of such further term,
 in the person or entity that was the proprietor of the copyright as of the
 last day of the original term of copyright.
 `(B) At the expiration of the original term of copyright in a work specified
 in paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection, the copyright shall endure for a
 renewed and extended further term of 47 years, which--
 `(i) if an application to register a claim to such further term has been
 made to the Copyright Office within 1 year before the expiration of the
 original term of copyright, and the claim is registered, shall vest, upon
 the beginning of such further term, in any person who is entitled under
 paragraph (1)(C) to the renewal and extension of the copyright at the time
 the application is made; or
 `(ii) if no such application is made or the claim pursuant to such application
 is not registered, shall vest, upon the beginning of such further term,
 in any person entitled under paragraph (1)(C), as of the last day of the
 original term of copyright, to the renewal and extension of the copyright.
 `(3)(A) An application to register a claim to the renewed and extended term
 of copyright in a work may be made to the Copyright Office--
 `(i) within 1 year before the expiration of the original term of copyright
 by any person entitled under paragraph (1) (B) or (C) to such further term
 of 47 years; and
 `(ii) at any time during the renewed and extended term by any person in
 whom such further term vested, under paragraph (2) (A) or (B), or by any
 successor or assign of such person, if the application is made in the name
 of such person.
 `(B) Such an application is not a condition of the renewal and extension
 of the copyright in a work for a further term of 47 years.
 `(4)(A) If an application to register a claim to the renewed and extended
 term of copyright in a work is not made within 1 year before the expiration
 of the original term of copyright in a work, or if the claim pursuant to
 such application is not registered, then a derivative work prepared under
 authority of a grant of a transfer or license of the copyright that is made
 before the expiration of the original term of copyright may continue to be
 used under the terms of the grant during the renewed and extended term of
 copyright without infringing the copyright, except that such use does not
 extend to the preparation during such renewed and extended term of other
 derivative works based upon the copyrighted work covered by such grant.
 `(B) If an application to register a claim to the renewed and extended
 term of copyright in a work is made within 1 year before its expiration,
 and the claim is registered, the certificate of such registration shall
 constitute prima facie evidence as to the validity of the copyright during
 its renewed and extended term and of the facts stated in the certificate. The
 evidentiary weight to be accorded the certificates of a registration of a
 renewed and extended term of copyright made after the end of that 1-year
 period shall be within the discretion of the court.'.
 (b) REGISTRATION- (1) Section 409 of title 17, United States Code, is
 amended by adding at the end the following:
`If an application is submitted for the renewed and extended term provided
for in section 304(a)(3)(A) and an original term registration has not been
made, the Register may request information with respect to the existence,
ownership, or duration of the copyright for the original term.'.
 (2) Section  101 of title 17, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 after the definition of `publication' the following:
 `Registration', for purposes of sections 205(c)(2), 405, 406, 410(d), 411,
 412, and 506(e), means a registration of a claim in the original or the
 renewed and extended term of copyright.'.
 (c) LEGAL EFFECT OF RENEWAL OF COPYRIGHT UNCHANGED- The renewal and extension
 of a copyright for a further term of 47 years provided for under paragraphs
 (1) and (2) of section 304(a) of title 17, United States Code (as amended by
 subsection (a) of this section) shall have the same effect with respect to any
 grant, before the effective date of this section, of a transfer or license
 of the further term as did the renewal of a copyright before the effective
 date of this section under the law in effect at the time of such grant.
 (d) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 304(c) of title 17, United States Code,
 is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking `second proviso
 of subsection (a)' and inserting `subsection (a)(1)(C)'.
 (e) REGISTRATION PERMISSIVE- Section 408(a) of title 17, United States Code,
 is amended by striking `At' and all that follows through `unpublished work,'
 and inserting `At any time during the subsistence of the first term of
 copyright in any published or unpublished work in which the copyright was
 secured before January 1, 1978, and during the subsistence of any copyright
 secured on or after that date,'.
 (f) COPYRIGHT OFFICE FEES- Section 708(a)(2) of title 17, United States Code,
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `in its first term'; and
 (2) by striking `$12' and inserting `$20'.
 (g) EFFECTIVE DATE; COPYRIGHTS AFFECTED BY AMENDMENT- (1) Subject to
 paragraphs (2) and (3), this section and the amendments made by this section
 shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.
 (2) The amendments made by this section shall apply only to those copyrights
 secured between January 1, 1964, and December 31, 1977. Copyrights secured
 before January 1, 1964, shall be governed by the provisions of section 304(a)
 of title 17, United States Code, as in effect on the day before the effective
 date of this section.
 (3) This section and the amendments made by this section shall not affect
 any court proceedings pending on the effective date of this section.
TITLE II--NATIONAL FILM PRESERVATION
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `National Film Preservation Act of 1992'.
SEC. 202. NATIONAL FILM REGISTRY OF THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.
 The Librarian of Congress (hereinafter in this title referred to as the
 `Librarian') shall establish a National Film Registry pursuant to the
 provisions of this title, for the purpose of maintaining and preserving
 films that are culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.
SEC. 203. DUTIES OF THE LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS.
 (a) STUDY OF FILM PRESERVATION- (1) The Librarian shall, after consultation
 with the Board established pursuant to section 204, conduct a study on the
 current state of film preservation and restoration activities, including
 the activities of the Library of Congress and the other major film archives
 in the United States. The Librarian shall, in conducting the study--
 (A) take into account the objectives of the national film preservation
 program set forth in clauses (i) through (iii) of subsection (b)(1)(A); and
 (B) consult with film archivists, educators and historians, copyright owners,
 film industry representatives, including those involved in the preservation
 of film, and others involved in activities related to film preservation.
The study shall include an examination of the concerns of private organizations
and individuals involved in the collection and use of abandoned films such
as training, educational, and other historically important films.
 (2) Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
 Librarian shall submit to the Congress a report containing the results of
 the study conducted under paragraph (1).
 (b) POWERS- (1) The Librarian shall, after consultation with the Board,
 do the following:
 (A) After completion of the study required by subsection (a), the Librarian
 shall, taking into account the results of the study, establish a comprehensive
 national film preservation program for motion pictures, in conjunction
 with other film archivists and copyright owners. The objectives of such a
 program shall include--
 (i) coordinating activities to assure that efforts of archivists and
 copyright owners, and others in the public and private sector, are effective
 and complementary;
 (ii) generating public awareness of and support for those activities; and
 (iii) increasing accessibility of films for educational purposes, and
 improving nationwide activities in the preservation of works in other media
 such as videotape.
 (B) The Librarian shall establish guidelines and procedures under which
 films may be included in the National Film Registry, except that no film
 shall be eligible for inclusion in the National Film Registry until 10
 years after such film's first publication.
 (C) The Librarian shall establish procedures under which the general public
 may make recommendations to the Board regarding the inclusion of films in
 the National Film Registry.
 (D) The Librarian shall establish procedures for the examination by the
 Librarian of prints of films named for inclusion in the National Film
 Registry to determine their eligibility for the use of the seal of the
 National Film Registry under paragraph (3).
 (E) The Librarian shall determine which films satisfy the criteria established
 under subparagraph (B) and qualify for inclusion in the National Film
 Registry, except that the Librarian shall not select more than 25 films
 each year for inclusion in the Registry.
 (2) The Librarian shall publish in the Federal Register the name of each
 film that is selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry.
 (3) The Librarian shall provide a seal to indicate that a film has been
 included in the National Film Registry and is the Registry version of
 that film.
 (4) The Librarian shall publish in the Federal Register the criteria used
 to determine the Registry version of a film.
 (5) The Librarian shall submit to the Congress a report, not less than once
 every two years, listing films included in the National Film Registry and
 describing the activities of the Board.
 (c) SEAL- The seal provided under subsection (b)(3) may be used on any
 copy of the Registry version of a film. Such seal may be used only after
 the Librarian has examined and approved the print from which the copy was
 made. In the case of copyrighted works, only the copyright owner or an
 authorized licensee of the copyright may place or authorize the placement
 of the seal on a copy of a film selected for inclusion in the National
 Film Registry, and the Librarian may place the seal on any print or copy
 of the film that is maintained in the National Film Registry Collection
 of the Library of Congress. The person authorized to place the seal on a
 copy of a film selected for inclusion in the National Film Registry may
 accompany such seal with the following language: `This film is included in
 the National Film Registry, which is maintained by the Library of Congress,
 and was preserved under the National Film Preservation Act of 1992.'.
 (d) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARDS- The Librarian shall develop standards or
 guidelines by which to assess the preservation or restoration of films that
 will qualify films for use of the seal under this section.
SEC. 204. NATIONAL FILM PRESERVATION BOARD.
 (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT- (1) The Librarian shall establish in the
 Library of Congress a National Film Preservation Board to be comprised
 of up to 18 members, who shall be selected by the Librarian in accordance
 with the provisions of this section. Subject to subparagraphs (C) and (O),
 the Librarian shall request each organization listed in subparagraphs (A)
 through (P) to submit to the Librarian a list of not less than 3 candidates
 qualified to serve as a member of the Board. Except for the members-at-large
 appointed under paragraph (2), the Librarian shall appoint 1 member from
 each such list submitted by such organizations, and shall designate from
 that list an alternate who may attend those meetings to which the individual
 appointed to the Board cannot attend. The organizations are the following:
 (A) The Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences.
 (B) The Directors Guild of America.
 (C) The Writers Guild of America. The Writers Guild of America East and the
 Writers Guild of America West shall each nominate not less than 3 candidates,
 and a representative from 1 such organization shall be selected as the
 member and a representative from the other such organization as the alternate.
 (D) The National Society of Film Critics.
 (E) The Society for Cinema Studies.
 (F) The American Film Institute.
 (G) The Department of Theatre, Film and Television of the College of Fine
 Arts at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 (H) The Department of Film and Television of the Tisch School of the Arts
 at New York University.
 (I) The University Film and Video Association.
 (J) The Motion Picture Association of America.
 (K) The National Association of Broadcasters.
 (L) The Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers.
 (M) The Screen Actors Guild of America.
 (N) The National Association of Theater Owners.
 (O) The American Society of Cinematographers and the International
 Photographers Guild, which shall jointly submit 1 list of candidates from
 which a member and alternate will be selected.
 (P) The United States members of the International Federation of Film
 Archives.
 (2) In addition to the Members appointed under paragraph (1), the Librarian
 shall appoint up to 2 members-at-large. The Librarian shall select the
 at-large members from names submitted by organizations in the film industry,
 creative artists, producers, film critics, film preservation organizations,
 academic institutions with film study programs, and others with knowledge of
 copyright law and of the importance, use, and dissemination of films. The
 Librarian shall, in selecting 1 such member-at-large, give preference
 to individuals who are responsible for commercial film libraries. The
 Librarian shall also select from the names submitted under this paragraph
 an alternate for each member-at-large, who may attend those meetings to
 which the member-at-large cannot attend.
 (b) CHAIRPERSON- The Librarian shall appoint 1 member of the Board to serve
 as Chairperson.
 (c) TERM OF OFFICE- (1) The term of each member of the Board shall be 3
 years, except that there shall be no limit to the number of terms that any
 individual member may serve.
 (2) A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the manner in which the original
 appointment was made under subsection (a), except that the Librarian may
 fill the vacancy from a list of candidates previously submitted by the
 organization or organizations involved. Any member appointed to fill a
 vacancy before the expiration of the term for which his or her predecessor
 was appointed shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.
 (d) QUORUM- 9 members of the Board shall constitute a quorum but a lesser
 number may hold hearings.
 (e) BASIC PAY- Members of the Board shall serve without pay. While away from
 their home or regular places of business in the performance of functions of
 the Board, members of the Board shall be allowed travel expenses, including
 per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed
 intermittently in Government service are allowed expenses under section
 5701 of title 5, United States Code.
 (f) MEETINGS- The Board shall meet at least once each calendar year. Meetings
 shall be at the call of the Librarian.
 (g) CONFLICT OF INTEREST- The Librarian shall establish rules and procedures
 to address any potential conflict of interest between a member of the Board
 and the responsibilities of the Board.
SEC. 205. RESPONSIBILITIES AND POWERS OF BOARD.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Board shall review nominations of films submitted to
 it for inclusion in the National Film Registry and shall consult with the
 Librarian, as provided in section 203, with respect to the inclusion of
 such films in the Registry and the preservation of these and other films
 that are culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.
 (b) NOMINATION OF FILMS- The Board shall consider, for inclusion in the
 National Film Registry, nominations submitted by the general public as well
 as representatives of the film industry, such as the guilds and societies
 representing actors, directors, screenwriters, cinematographers and other
 creative artists, producers, film critics, film preservation organizations,
 and representatives of academic institutions with film study programs. The
 Board shall nominate not more than 25 films each year for inclusion in
 the Registry.
 (c) GENERAL POWERS- The Board may, for the purpose of carrying out its
 duties, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take
 such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Librarian and the Board
 considers appropriate.
SEC. 206. NATIONAL FILM REGISTRY COLLECTION OF THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS.
 (a) ACQUISITION OF ARCHIVAL QUALITY COPIES- The Librarian shall endeavor to
 obtain, by gift from the owner, an archival quality copy of the Registry
 version of each film included in the National Film Registry. Whenever
 possible, the Librarian shall endeavor to obtain the best surviving materials,
 including preprint materials.
 (b) ADDITIONAL MATERIALS- The Librarian shall endeavor to obtain, for
 educational and research purposes, additional materials related to each
 film included in the National Film Registry, such as background materials,
 production reports, shooting scripts (including continuity scripts) and
 other similar materials.
 (c) PROPERTY OF UNITED STATES- All copies of films on the National Film
 Registry that are received by the Librarian and other materials received by
 the Librarian under subsection (b) shall become the property of the United
 States Government, subject to the provisions of title 17, United States Code.
 (d) NATIONAL FILM REGISTRY COLLECTION- All copies of films on the National
 Film Registry that are received by the Librarian and other materials
 received by the Librarian under subsection (b) shall be maintained in a
 special collection in the Library of Congress to be known as the `National
 Film Registry Collection of the Library of Congress'. The Librarian shall,
 by regulation, and in accordance with title 17, United States Code,
 provide for reasonable access to films in such collection for scholarly
 and research purposes.
SEC. 207. SEAL OF THE NATIONAL FILM REGISTRY.
 (a) USE OF THE SEAL- (1) No person shall knowingly distribute or exhibit
 to the public a version of a film which bears the seal described in section
 203(b)(3) if such film--
 (A) is not included in the National Film Registry; or
 (B) is included in the National Film Registry, but such copy was not made
 from a print that was examined and approved for the use of the seal by the
 Librarian under section 203(c).
 (2) No person shall knowingly use the seal described in section 203(b)(3)
 to promote any version of a film other than a Registry version.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE SEAL- The use of the seal described in section
 203(b)(3) shall be effective for each film after the Librarian publishes
 in the Federal Register the name of that film as selected for inclusion in
 the National Film Registry.
SEC. 208. REMEDIES.
 (a) JURISDICTION- The several district courts of the United States shall
 have jurisdiction, for cause shown, to prevent and restrain violations of
 section 207(a).
 (b) RELIEF- (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), relief for a violation
 of section 207(a) shall be limited to the removal of the seal of the National
 Film Registry from the film involved in the violation.
 (2) In the case of a pattern or practice of the willful violation of section
 207(a), the United States district courts may order a civil fine of not
 more than $10,000 and appropriate injunctive relief.
SEC. 209. LIMITATIONS OF REMEDIES.
 The remedies provided in section 208 shall be the exclusive remedies under
 this title, or any other Federal or State law, regarding the use of the
 seal described in section 203(b)(3).
SEC. 210. STAFF OF BOARD; EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS.
 (a) STAFF- The Librarian may appoint and fix the pay of such personnel as
 the Librarian considers appropriate to carry out this title.
 (b) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The Librarian may, in carrying out this
 title, procure temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b)
 of title 5, United States Code, but at rates for individuals not to exceed
 the daily equivalent of the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 of
 the General Schedule. In no case may a member of the Board be paid as an
 expert or consultant under such section.
SEC. 211. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this title--
 (1) the term `Librarian' means the Librarian of Congress;
 (2) the term `Board' means the National Film Preservation Board;
 (3) the term `film' means a `motion picture' as defined in section 101 of
 title 17, United States Code, except that such term does not include any
 work not originally fixed on film stock, such as a work fixed on videotape
 or laser disks;
 (4) the term `publication' means `publication' as defined in section 101
 of title 17, United States Code; and
 (5) the term `Registry version' means, with respect to a film, the version
 of the film first published, or as complete a version as the bona fide
 preservation and restoration activities by the Librarian, an archivist other
 than the Librarian, or the copyright owner can compile in those cases where
 the original material has been irretrievably lost.
SEC. 212. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to the Librarian such sums as are
 necessary to carry out the provisions of this title, but in no fiscal year
 shall such sum exceed $250,000.
SEC. 213. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The provisions of this title shall be effective for four years beginning on
 the date of the enactment of this Act. The provisions of this title shall
 apply to any copy of any film, including those copies of films selected for
 inclusion in the National Film Registry under the National Film Preservation
 Act of 1988, except that any film so selected under such Act shall be deemed
 to have been selected for the  National Film Registry under this title.
SEC. 214. REPEAL.
 The National Film Preservation Act of 1988 (2 U.S.C. 178 and following)
 is repealed.
TITLE III--OTHER COPYRIGHT PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. REPEAL OF COPYRIGHT REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 Section 108(i) of title 17, United States Code, is repealed.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.