 
--S.775--
S.775
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To improve the program of compensation for veterans exposed to ionizing
radiation
while in military service.
  Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
  States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
  This Act may be cited as the `Veterans' Radiation Exposure Amendments
  of 1992'.
SEC. 2. EXPANSION OF LIST OF DISEASES PRESUMED TO BE SERVICE CONNECTED
FOR CERTAIN RADIATION-EXPOSED VETERANS AND ELIMINATION OF LATENCY-PERIOD
LIMITATIONS.
  (a) IN GENERAL- Section 1112(c) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking out `to a degree' and all that follows
  through `subsection)';
  (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
  `(N) Cancer of the salivary gland.
  `(O) Cancer of the urinary tract.';
  (3) by striking out paragraph (3); and
  (4) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3).
  (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
  on October 1, 1992.
SEC. 3. IDENTIFICATION OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES RELATING TO EXPOSURE TO IONIZING
RADIATION.
  The Veterans' Dioxin and Radiation Exposure Compensation Standards Act (38
  U.S.C. 1154 note) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
`IDENTIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES INVOLVING EXPOSURE BEFORE JANUARY 1, 1970
  `SEC. 10. (a) IN GENERAL- (1) In order to determine whether activities
  (other than the tests or occupation activities referred to in section
  5(a)(1)(B)) resulted in the  exposure of veterans to ionizing radiation
  during the service of such veterans that occurred before January 1, 1970,
  and whether adverse health effects have been observed or may have resulted
  from such exposure in a significant number of such veterans, the Advisory
  Committee established under section 6 shall--
  `(A) review all available scientific studies and other relevant information
  relating to the exposure of such veterans to ionizing radiation during
  such service;
  `(B) identify any activity during which significant numbers of veterans
  received exposure; and
  `(C) on the basis of such review, submit to the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs a report containing the recommendation of the Advisory Committee on
  the feasibility and appropriateness for the purpose of the determination
  under this paragraph of any additional investigation with  respect to any
  activity of such veterans during such service.
  `(2) Upon the request of the Advisory Committee, the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs (after seeking such assistance from the Secretary of Defense
  as is necessary and appropriate) shall make available to the Advisory
  Committee records and other information relating to the service referred
  to in paragraph (1) that may assist the Advisory Committee in carrying
  out the review and recommendation referred to in that paragraph.
  `(3) The Advisory Committee shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
  the report referred to in paragraph (1)(C) not later than August 1, 1993.
  `(b) INVESTIGATION PLAN AND REPORT- (1) Upon receipt of the report referred
  to in subparagraph (C) of subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Veterans
  Affairs shall--
  `(A) identify which of the activities referred to in that subparagraph,
  if any, that the Secretary intends to investigate more fully for the
  purpose of making the determination referred to in that subsection; and
  `(B) prepare a plan (including a deadline for the plan) to carry out that
  investigation and make that determination.
  `(2) Not later than December 1, 1993, the Secretary shall submit to the
  Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives
  a report containing--
  `(A) a list of the activities identified by the Secretary pursuant to
  paragraph (1)(A) and the basis of such identification;
  `(B) a copy of the report of the Advisory Committee referred to in subsection
  (a)(1)(C); and
  `(C) the plan referred to in paragraph (1)(B).'.
SEC. 4. REVIEW OF BRONCHIO-ALVEOLAR CARCINOMA.
  (a) ADVISORY COMMITTEE REVIEW- The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
  direct the Advisory Committee on Environmental Hazards to review pertinent
  scientific data relating to bronchio-alveolar carcinoma to determine whether
  such disease entity should be considered to be radiogenic. Based on its
  review, the Advisory Committee shall report its findings to the Secretary.
  (b) DECISION BY SECRETARY- The Secretary, based on the Advisory Committee's
  findings, shall, not later than April 1, 1993, submit to the Committees on
  Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report setting
  forth the Secretary's decision as to whether such disease entity should be
  presumed to be service connected if suffered by a radiation-exposed veteran
  (as defined by section 1112(c)(4)(A) of title 38, United States Code).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.