 
--S.868--
S.868
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend title 10, United States Code, and title 38, United States Code,
to improve the educational assistance benefits for members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces who served on active duty during the Persian
Gulf War, to improve and clarify the eligibility of certain veterans for
employment and training assistance, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Veterans' Educational Assistance Amendments
 of 1991'.
SEC. 2. RESTORATION OF ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.
 (a) CHAPTER 30 PROGRAM- Section 3013 of title 38, United States Code,
 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(f)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or chapter 36
 of this title, any payment of an educational assistance allowance described
 in paragraph (2) shall not--
 `(A) be charged against any entitlement of any individual under this
 chapter; or
 `(B) be counted toward the aggregate period for which section 3695 of this
 title limits an individual's receipt of assistance.
 `(2) Subject to paragraph (3), the payment of the educational assistance
 allowance referred to in paragraph (1) is the payment of such an allowance
 to an individual for pursuit of a course or courses under this chapter if
 the Secretary finds that the individual--
 `(A) in the case of a person not serving on active duty, had to discontinue
 such course pursuit as a result of being ordered, in connection with the
 Persian Gulf War, to serve on active duty under section 672 (a), (d), or
 (g), 673, 673b, or 688 of title 10; or
 `(B) in the case of a person serving on active duty, had to discontinue such
 course pursuit as a result of being ordered, in connection with such War, to a
 new duty location or assignment or to perform an increased amount of work; and
 `(C) failed to receive credit or lost training time toward completion of
 the individual's approved education, professional, or vocational objective
 as a result of having to discontinue, as described in subparagraph (A) or
 (B), his or her course pursuit.
 `(3) The period for which, by reason of this subsection, an educational
 assistance allowance is not charged against entitlement or counted toward
 the applicable aggregate period under section 3695 of this title shall not
 exceed the portion of the period of enrollment in the course or courses
 for which the individual failed to receive credit or with respect to which
 the individual lost training time, as determined under paragraph (2)(C)
 of this subsection.'.
 (b) CHAPTER 32 PROGRAM- (1) Section 3231(a) of such title is amended by
 adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(5)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or chapter 36
 of this title, any payment of an educational assistance allowance described
 in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph--
 `(i) shall not be charged against the entitlement of any eligible veteran
 under this chapter; and
 `(ii) shall not be counted toward the aggregate period for which section
 3695 of this title limits an individual's receipt of assistance.
 `(B) The payment of an educational assistance allowance referred to in
 subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is any payment of a monthly benefit
 under this chapter to an eligible veteran for pursuit of a course or courses
 under this chapter if the Secretary finds that the eligible veteran--
 `(i) in the case of a person not serving on active duty, had to discontinue
 such course pursuit as a result of being ordered, in connection with  the
 Persian Gulf War, to serve on active duty under section 672 (a), (d), or
 (g), 673, 673b, or 688 of title 10; or
 `(ii) in the case of a person serving on active duty, had to discontinue such
 course pursuit as a result of being ordered, in connection with such War,
 to  a new duty location or assignment or to perform an increased amount of
 work; and
 `(iii) failed to receive credit or training time toward completion of the
 individual's approved educational, professional, or vocational objective
 as a result of having to discontinue, as described in clause (i) or (ii)
 of this subparagraph, his or her course pursuit.
 `(C) The period for which, by reason of this subsection, an educational
 assistance allowance  is not charged against entitlement or counted toward
 the applicable aggregate period under section 3695 of this title shall not
 exceed the portion of the period of enrollment in the course or courses for
 which the individual failed to receive credit or with respect to which the
 individual lost training time, as determined under subparagraph (B)(iii)
 of this paragraph.
 `(D) The amount in the fund for each eligible veteran who received a payment
 of an educational assistance allowance  described  in subparagraph (B)
 of this paragraph shall be restored to the amount that would have been in
 the fund for the veteran if the payment had not been made. For purposes of
 carrying out the previous sentence, the Secretary of Defense shall deposit
 into the fund, on behalf of each such veteran, an amount equal to the entire
 amount of the payment made to the veteran.
 `(E) In the case of a veteran who discontinues pursuit of a course or
 courses as described  in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, the formula
 for ascertaining the amount of the monthly payment to which the veteran is
 entitled in paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be implemented as if--
 `(i) the payment made to the fund by the Secretary of Defense under
 subparagraph (D) of this paragraph, and
 `(ii) any payment for a course or courses described  in subparagraph (B)
 of this paragraph that was paid out of the fund,
had not been made or paid.'.
 (2) Section 3231(a)(2) of such title is amended by inserting `in paragraph
 (5)(E) of this subsection and' after `Except as provided'.
 (c) CHAPTER 35 PROGRAM- Section 3511(a) of such title is amended--
 (1) by striking out `Each' and inserting in lieu thereof `(1) Each'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or chapter 36
 of this title, any payment of an educational assistance allowance described
 in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not--
 `(i) be charged against the entitlement of any individual under this
 chapter; or
 `(ii) be counted toward the aggregate period for which section 3695 of this
 title limits an individual's receipt of assistance.
 `(B) The payment of the educational assistance allowance  referred to  in
 subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is the payment of such an allowance to
 an individual for pursuit of a course or courses under this chapter if the
 Secretary finds that the individual--
 `(i) had to discontinue such course pursuit as a result of being ordered,
 in connection with the Persian Gulf War, to serve on active duty under
 section 672 (a), (d), or (g), 673, 673b, or 688 of title 10; and
 `(ii) failed to receive credit or training time toward completion of the
 individual's approved educational, professional, or vocational objective
 as a result of having to discontinue, as described  in clause (i) of this
 subparagraph, his or her course pursuit.
 `(C) The period for which, by reason of this subsection, an educational
 assistance allowance is not charged against entitlement or counted toward
 the applicable aggregate period under section 3695 of this title shall not
 exceed the portion of the period of enrollment in the course or courses
 for which the individual failed to receive credit or with respect to which
 the individual lost training time, as determined under subparagraph (B)(ii)
 of this paragraph.'.
 (d) SELECTED RESERVE PROGRAM- Section 2131(c) of title 10, United States
 Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or chapter 36
 of title 38, any payment of an educational assistance allowance described
 in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph shall not--
 `(i) be charged against the entitlement of any individual under this
 chapter; or
 `(ii) be counted toward the aggregate period for which section 3695 of
 title 38 limits an individual's receipt of assistance.
 `(B) The payment of the educational assistance allowance referred to in
 subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is the payment of such an allowance to
 the individual for pursuit of a course or courses under this chapter if
 the Secretary of Veterans Affairs finds that the individual--
 `(i) had to discontinue such course pursuit as a result of being ordered,
 in connection with the Persian Gulf War, to serve on active duty under
 section 672 (a), (d), or (g), 673, or 673b of this title; and
 `(ii) failed to receive credit or training time toward completion of the
 individual's approved educational, professional, or vocational objective
 as a result of having to discontinue, as described in clause (i) of this
 subparagraph, his or her course pursuit.
 `(C) The period for which, by reason of this subsection, an educational
 assistance allowance is not charged against entitlement or counted toward
 the applicable aggregate period under section 3695 of title 38 shall not
 exceed the portion of the period of enrollment in the course or courses
 for which the individual failed to receive credit or with respect to which
 the individual lost training time, as determined under subparagraph (B)(ii)
 of this paragraph.'.
SEC. 3. DELIMITING DATE.
 Section 2133(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at
 the end the following:
 `(4)(A) In the case of a member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready
 Reserve who, during the Persian Gulf War, serves on active duty pursuant
 to an order to active duty issued under section 672 (a), (d), or (g), 673,
 or 673b of this title--
 `(i) the period of such active duty service plus four months shall not be
 considered in determining the expiration date applicable to such member
 under subsection (a); and
 `(ii) the member may not be considered to have been separated from the
 Selected Reserve for the purposes of clause (2) of such subsection by reason
 of the commencement of such active duty service.
 `(B) For the purposes of this paragraph, the term `Persian Gulf War' shall
 have the meaning given such term in section 101(33) of title 38.'.
SEC. 4. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ASSISTANCE.
 Section 4214(b)(2)(A)(i) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by
 striking out `has a service-connected disability' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `is entitled to disability compensation under the laws administered
 by the Secretary or whose discharge or release from active duty was for a
 disability incurred or aggravated in line of duty.'.
SEC. 5. ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS OF A RESERVE COMPONENT FOR EMPLOYMENT AND
TRAINING ASSISTANCE.
 Section 4211(4) of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as
 follows:
 `(4) The term `eligible veteran' means a person who--
 `(A) served on active duty for a period of more than 180 days and was
 discharged or released therefrom with other than a dishonorable discharge;
 `(B) was discharged or released from active duty because of a
 service-connected disability; or
 `(C) as a member of a reserve component under an order to active duty
 pursuant to section 672 (a), (d), or (g), 673, or 673b of title 10, served
 on active duty during a period of war or in a campaign or expedition for
 which a campaign badge is authorized and was discharged or released from
 such duty with other than a dishonorable discharge.'.
SEC. 6. IMPROVEMENT IN PAYMENT OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR RESERVISTS
CALLED TO ACTIVE DUTY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Clause (3) of section 3680(a) of title 38, United States
 Code, is amended to read as follows--
 `(3) to any eligible veteran or person for a course for which the grade
 assigned is not used in computing the requirements for graduation including
 a course from which the student withdraws unless--
 `(A) the eligible veteran or person withdraws because he or she is ordered
 to active duty; or
 `(B) the Secretary finds there are mitigating circumstances, except that,
 in the first instance of withdrawal (without regard to withdrawals described
 in subclause (A) of this clause) by the eligible veteran or person from a
 course or courses with respect to which the veteran or person has been paid
 assistance under this title, mitigating circumstances shall be considered
 to exist with respect to courses totaling not more than six semester hours
 or the equivalent thereof; or'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect
 as of August 1, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.