 
--S.870--
S.870
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize inclusion of a tract of land in the Golden Gate National
Recreation
Area, California.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Golden Gate National Recreation Area Addition
 Act of 1992'.
SEC. 2. ACQUISITION AND ADDITION TO GOLDEN GATE NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.
 (a) ACQUISITION- The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire
 by donation or purchase with donated or appropriated funds approximately
 1,232 acres of land in San Mateo County, California, known generally as the
 Phleger property, as generally depicted on the map entitled `1991 Addition
 to Golden Gate National Recreation Area (Phleger Estate)' and numbered
 GGNRA641/40062. The Federal share of the acquisition of the lands acquired
 pursuant to this Act may not exceed 50 percent of the purchase price of
 such lands.
 (b) BOUNDARY REVISION- (1) Section 2(a) of the Act entitled `An Act to
 establish the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in the State of California,
 and for other purposes' (16 U.S.C. 460bb-1(a)) is amended by adding at the end
 the following: `The recreation area shall also include those lands acquired
 pursuant to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area Addition Act of 1992.'.
 (2) Upon acquisition of the land under subsection (a) and after publication
 of notice in the Federal Register, the Secretary shall--
 (A) revise the boundary of Golden Gate National Recreation Area to reflect
 the inclusion of such land; and
 (B) prepare and make available a map displaying such boundary revision in
 accordance with section 2(b) of such Act (16 U.S.C. 460bb-1(b)).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.