 
--S.909--
S.909
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
An Act
To amend chapter 9 of title 17, United States Code, regarding protection
extended to semiconductor chip products of foreign entities.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Semiconductor International Protection
 Extension Act of 1991'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) section 914 of title 17, United States Code, which authorizes the
 Secretary of Commerce to issue orders extending interim protection
 under chapter 9 of title 17, United States Code, to mask works fixed in
 semiconductor chip products and originating in foreign countries that are
 making good faith efforts and reasonable progress toward providing protection,
 by treaty or legislation, to mask works of United States nationals, has
 resulted in substantial and positive legislative developments in foreign
 countries regarding protection of mask works;
 (2) the Secretary of Commerce has determined that most of the industrialized
 countries of the world are eligible for orders affording interim protection
 under section 914 of title 17, United States Code;
 (3) no multilateral treaty recognizing the protection of mask works has
 come into force, nor has the United States become bound by any multilateral
 agreement regarding such protection; and
 (4) bilateral and multilateral relationships regarding the protection of
 mask works should be directed toward the international protection of mask
 works in an effective, consistent, and harmonious manner, and the existing
 bilateral authority of the Secretary of Commerce under chapter 9 of title
 17, United States Code, should be extended to facilitate the continued
 development of protection for mask works.
 (b) PURPOSES- The purposes of this Act are--
 (1) to extend the period within which the Secretary of Commerce may grant
 interim protection orders under section 914 of title 17, United States Code,
 to continue the incentive for the bilateral and multilateral protection of
 mask works; and
 (2) to clarify the Secretary's authority to issue such interim protection
 orders.
SEC. 3. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PROTECTION ORDERS.
 Section 914 of title 17, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1)(B) by inserting `or implementing' after `enacting';
 and
 (2) in subsection (e) by striking `July 1, 1991' and inserting `July 1, 1995'.
 SEC. 4. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
 Section 914(f)(2) of title 17, United States Code, is amended in the last
 sentence by striking `July 1, 1990' and inserting `July 1, 1994'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.