 
--S.959--
 S.959
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To establish a commission to commemorate the 250th anniversary of the birth
of Thomas Jefferson.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Thomas Jefferson Commemoration Commission Act'.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) April 13, 1993, marks the 250th anniversary of the birth of Thomas
 Jefferson;
 (2) as author of the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson conceived
 and executed an affirmation of democratic government unequaled in both its
 eloquence and clarity;
 (3) in an age of democratic awakening, Thomas Jefferson worked to promote
 government based on the consent of the people, to hold rulers continually
 responsible to the ruled, and to secure fundamental rights and liberties
 of free citizens;
 (4) Thomas Jefferson was elected 3d President of the United States in 1801
 and helped to establish the process by which ongoing political change is
 carried forward through public debate and free elections;
 (5) with the Louisiana Purchase, Thomas Jefferson virtually doubled the
 size of the United States;
 (6) the genius of Thomas Jefferson extended beyond the realm of politics
 and government to the adaptation of classic architecture, as exemplified
 by his home at Monticello and the grounds of the University of Virginia,
 which set an American standard of dignity, simplicity, and elegance;
 (7) Thomas Jefferson encouraged American science in its infancy, and with
 his friend James Madison, laid the cornerstone of the American tradition
 of religious freedom and separation of church and state;
 (8) Thomas Jefferson also championed universal public education, believing
 such education essential to democratic government as well as to advancement
 of knowledge and the pursuit of happiness;
 (9) it is appropriate to remember and renew the legacy of Thomas Jefferson
 for the American people and, indeed for all mankind, during a time when
 the light of democracy is again bursting upon the world; and
 (10) as the Nation approaches the 250th anniversary of the birth of Thomas
 Jefferson, it is appropriate to celebrate and commemorate this anniversary
 through local, national, and international observances and activities
 planned and coordinated by a national commission.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT.
 There is established a commission to be known as the Thomas Jefferson
 Commemoration Commission (in this Act referred to as the `Commission').
SEC. 4. DUTIES.
 The Commission shall--
 (1) plan and develop programs and activities appropriate to commemorate
 the 250th anniversary of the birth of Thomas Jefferson, including a limited
 number of projects to be undertaken by the Federal Government that harmonize
 and balance the important goals of ceremony and celebration with the equally
 important goals of scholarship and education;
 (2) generally coordinate activities throughout the several States;
 (3) honor historical locations associated with the life of Thomas Jefferson;
 (4) recognize individuals and organizations that have significantly
 contributed to the preservation of Jefferson's ideals, writings, architectural
 designs, and other professional accomplishments, by the award and presentation
 of medals and certificates;
 (5) encourage civic, patriotic, and historical organizations, and State and
 local governments, to organize and participate in anniversary activities
 commemorating the birth of Thomas Jefferson; and
 (6) develop and coordinate any other activities relating to the anniversary
 of the birth of Thomas Jefferson as may be appropriate.
SEC. 5. MEMBERSHIP.
 (a) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission shall be composed of 21 members, including--
 (A) the Chief Justice of the United States or such individual's delegate;
 (B) the Librarian of Congress or such individual's delegate;
 (C) the Archivist of the United States or such individual's delegate;
 (D) the President pro tempore of the Senate or such individual's delegate;
 (E) the Speaker of the House of Representatives or such individual's delegate;
 (F) the Secretary of the Interior or such individual's delegate;
 (G) the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution or such individual's
 delegate;
 (H) the Secretary of Education or such individual's delegate;
 (I) the Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities or such
 individual's delegate;
 (J) the Executive Director of the Thomas Jefferson Memorial Foundation or
 such individual's delegate; and
 (K) 11 citizens of the United States who are not officers or employees of
 any government, except to the extent they are considered such officers or
 employees by virtue of their membership on the Commission.
 (2) APPOINTMENTS BY PRESIDENT-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The individuals referred to in paragraph (1)(K) shall be
 appointed by the President. The individuals shall be chosen based on their
 distinctive qualifications or experience in the fields of history, government,
 architecture, the applied sciences, or other professions that would enhance
 the work of the Commission and reflect the professional accomplishments of
 Thomas Jefferson.
 (B) POLITICAL AFFILIATION- Not more than 6 of the individuals appointed
 under subparagraph (A) may be affiliated with the same political party.
 (C) RECOMMENDATIONS- Of the individuals appointed under subparagraph (A)--
 (i) 3 shall be appointed from among individuals who are recommended by the
 majority leader of the Senate in consultation with the minority leader of
 the Senate; and
 (ii) 3 shall be appointed from among individuals who are recommended by the
 Speaker of the House of Representatives in consultation with the minority
 leader of the House of Representatives.
 (b) TERMS- Each member of the Commission shall be appointed not later
 than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act for the life of
 the Commission.
 (c) VACANCIES- A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the same
 manner in which the original appointment was made.
 (d) CHAIRPERSON- The President shall designate the chairperson of the
 Commission from among the individuals appointed under subsection (a)(2).
 (e) COMPENSATION-
 (1) RATES OF PAY- Except as provided in paragraph (2), members of the
 Commission shall serve without pay.
 (2) TRAVEL EXPENSES- Each member of the Commission may receive travel
 expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with
 sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
 (f) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the chairperson or
 a majority of its members.
 (g) APPROVAL OF ACTIONS- All official actions of the Commission under this
 Act shall be approved by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority
 of the members.
SEC. 6. POWERS.
 (a) ADVISORY COMMITTEES- The Commission may appoint such advisory committees
 as it determines to be necessary to carry out this Act.
 (b) DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY- Any member or employee of the Commission may,
 if authorized by the Commission, take any action that the Commission is
 authorized to take by this Act.
 (c) CONTRACT AUTHORITY-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission may procure supplies, services, and property,
 and make or enter into contracts, leases, or other legal agreements, in
 order to carry out this Act.
 (2) RESTRICTION- The contracts, leases, or other legal agreements made
 or entered into by the Commission shall not extend beyond the date of
 termination of the Commission.
 (3) TERMINATION- All supplies and property acquired by the Commission under
 this Act that remain in the possession of the Commission on the date of
 termination of the Commission shall become the property of the General
 Services Administration upon the date of the termination.
 (d) INFORMATION-
 (1) IN GENERAL- The Commission may secure directly from any Federal agency
 information necessary to enable it to carry out this Act. Upon request of
 the chairperson of the Commission, the head of the Federal agency shall
 furnish the information to the Commission.
 (2) EXCEPTION- Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any information that the
 Commission is prohibited to secure or request by another law.
 (e) MAILS- The Commission may use the United States mails in the same manner
 and under the same conditions as other Federal agencies.
SEC. 7. STAFF AND SUPPORT SERVICES.
 (a) EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR- The Commission shall have an executive director
 appointed by the chairperson of the Commission with the advice of the
 Commission. The executive director may be paid at a rate not to exceed the
 maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-15 of the General Schedule.
 (b) STAFF- The Commission may appoint and fix the pay of additional personnel
 as it considers appropriate, except that an individual so appointed may not
 receive pay in excess of the maximum rate of basic pay payable for GS-13
 of the General Schedule.
 (c) APPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN CIVIL SERVICE LAWS- The executive director and
 staff of the Commission may be appointed without regard to the provisions
 of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in the competitive
 service, and may be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51
 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of that title relating to classification
 and General Schedule pay rates, except as provided in subsections (a) and (b).
 (d) STAFF OF FEDERAL AGENCIES- Upon request of the chairperson of the
 Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a nonreimbursable
 basis, any of the personnel of the agency to the Commission to assist it
 in carrying out its duties under this Act.
 (e) EXPERTS AND CONSULTANTS- The chairperson of the Commission may procure
 temporary and intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5,
 United States Code, at a rate which does not exceed the daily equivalent
 of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive
 Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
 (f) ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES- The Administrator of General Services
 shall provide to the Commission on a reimbursable basis such administrative
 support services as the Commission may request.
SEC. 8. CONTRIBUTIONS.
 (a) DONATIONS- The Commission may accept donations of money, personal
 services, and property, both real and personal, including books, manuscripts,
 miscellaneous printed matter, memorabilia, relics and other materials
 related to Thomas Jefferson.
 (b) USE OF FUNDS-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Any funds donated to the Commission may be used by the
 Commission to carry out this Act. The source and amount of such funds shall
 be listed in the interim and final reports required under section 9.
 (2) PROCUREMENT REQUIREMENTS- In addition to any procurement requirement
 otherwise applicable to the Commission, the Commission shall conduct
 procurements of property or services involving donated funds pursuant to the
 small purchase procedures required by section 303(g) of the Federal Property
 and Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253(g)). Section 15(j)
 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(j)) shall not apply to such
 procurements.
 (3) DEFINITION- For purposes of paragraph (2), the term `donated funds'
 means any funds of which 50 percent or more derive from funds donated to
 the Commission.
 (c) VOLUNTEER SERVICES- Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, United
 States Code, the Commission may accept and use voluntary and uncompensated
 services as the Commission determines necessary.
 (d) REMAINING FUNDS- Funds remaining upon the date of termination of the
 Commission shall be used to ensure the proper disposition of property donated
 to the Commission as specified in the final report required by section 9.
SEC. 9. REPORTS.
 (a) INTERIM REPORT- Not later than December 31, 1992, the Commission shall
 prepare and submit to the President and the Congress a report detailing
 the activities of the Commission, including an accounting of funds received
 and expended by the Commission, during the period beginning on the date of
 the enactment of this Act and ending not earlier than 30 days prior to the
 submission of the interim report.
 (b) FINAL REPORT- Not later than December 31, 1993, the Commission shall
 submit to the President and to the Congress a final report. The final report
 shall contain--
 (1) a summary of the activities of the Commission;
 (2) a final accounting of funds received and expended by the Commission;
 (3) the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the Commission;
 (4) specific recommendations concerning the final disposition of historically
 significant items donated to the Commission under section 8(a); and
 (5) any additional views of any member of the Commission concerning the
 Commission's recommendations that such member requests to be included in
 the final report.
SEC. 10. AUDIT OF FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Inspector General of the General Services Administration
 shall audit financial transactions of the Commission, including financial
 transactions involving donated funds, in accordance with generally accepted
 auditing standards. In conducting an audit pursuant to this section,
 the Inspector General shall have access to all books, accounts, financial
 records, reports, files, and other papers, items, or property in use by
 the Commission, as necessary to facilitate the audit, and shall be afforded
 full facilities for verifying transactions with the balances or securities
 held by depositories, fiscal agents, and custodians.
 (b) REPORTS- Not later than December 31, 1992, the Inspector General of
 the General Services Administration shall submit to the President and to
 the Congress a report detailing the results of any audit of the financial
 transactions of the Commission conducted before such date. Not later than
 March 4, 1994, such Inspector General shall submit to the President and to
 the Congress a report detailing the results of any audit of the financial
 transactions of the Commission conducted during the period beginning on
 December 31, 1992, and ending on December 31, 1993.
SEC. 11. TERMINATION.
 The Commission shall terminate not later than 60 days following submission
 of the final report required by section 9.
SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $250,000 for
 fiscal year 1993 and $62,500 for fiscal year 1994.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.