 
--S.996--
S.996
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
An Act
To authorize and direct the Secretary of the Interior to terminate a
reservation
of use and occupancy at the Buffalo National River; and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) in 1979 Harold and Margaret Hedges conveyed approximately 711 acres,
 including a homesite, to the National Park Service for addition to the
 Buffalo National River;
 (2) Mr. and Mrs. Hedges retained a reservation of use and occupancy for a
 term of twenty-five years for use of their home and approximately forty-two
 acres of adjacent land;
 (3) on January 1, 1991, the house was destroyed by fire, apparently caused
 by arson;
 (4) Mr. and Mrs. Hedges are now unable to use the remaining term of their
 use and occupancy reservation, without incurring extraordinary costs and
 expenses; and
 (5) the most equitable resolution is to provide for the termination of
 their use and occupancy reservation, with an appropriate refund of the
 unused portion of the value of the reservation.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act, the term--
 (1) `reservation' or `reservation of use and occupancy' means the reservation
 of use and occupancy retained by Harold and Margaret Hedges, pursuant to
 Buffalo National River Deed 922, including tracts 66-104, 66-111, and 66-112,
 executed on October 25, 1979, and valued at $19,148;
 (2) `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior; and
 (3) `unused term' means the period of time between January 1, 1991, and
 October 25, 2004, inclusive.
SEC. 3. TERMINATION OF RESERVATION OF USE AND OCCUPANCY.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Upon application by Harold and Margaret Hedges of Harrison,
 Arkansas, the Secretary is authorized and directed to terminate the
 reservation of use and occupancy at the Buffalo National River described
 in section 2.
 (b) REFUND- Upon termination of such reservation, the Secretary shall,
 notwithstanding any other provision of law, refund the value of the unused
 term of such reservation, determined on a pro rata basis.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary
 to carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.