 
--S.J.Res. 337--
S.J.Res. 337
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
Joint Resolution
Designating September 18, 1992, as `National POW/MIA Recognition Day', and
authorizing display of the National League of Families POW/MIA flag.
Whereas the United States has fought in many wars, most recently in
unprecedented unity with Allied forces in the Persian Gulf;
Whereas thousands of Americans who served in those wars were captured by
the enemy or listed as missing in action;
Whereas many American prisoners of war were subjected to brutal and inhumane
treatment by their enemy captors in violation of international codes and
customs for the treatment of prisoners of war, and many such prisoners of
war died from such treatment;
Whereas many of these Americans are still listed as missing and unaccounted
for, and the uncertainty surrounding their fates has caused their families
to suffer acute and continuing hardships;
Whereas, in Public Law 101-355, the Federal Government officially recognized
and designated the National League of Families POW/MIA flag as the symbol
of the Nation's concern and commitment to resolving as fully as possible the
fates of Americans still prisoner, missing in action, or unaccounted for in
Southeast Asia; and
Whereas the sacrifices of Americans still missing and unaccounted for from all
our Nation's wars and their families are deserving of national recognition
and support for continued priority efforts to determine the fate of those
missing Americans: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY.
  September 18, 1992, is designated as `National POW/MIA Recognition Day', and
  the President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation calling
  on the people of the United States to observe the day with appropriate
  ceremonies and activities.
SEC. 2. REQUIREMENT TO DISPLAY NATIONAL LEAGUE OF FAMILIES POW/MIA FLAG.
  (a) IN GENERAL- The POW/MIA flag shall be displayed--
  (1) at all national cemeteries and the National Vietnam Veterans Memorial
  on May 30, 1993 (Memorial Day), September 18, 1992 (National POW/MIA
  Recognition Day), and November 11, 1992 (Veteran's Day); and
  (2) on, or on the grounds of, the buildings specified in subsection (b)
  on September 18, 1992;
as the symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to resolving as fully
as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner, missing, and unaccounted
for, thus ending the uncertainty for their families and the Nation.
  (b) BUILDINGS- The buildings specified in this subsection are--
  (1) the White House; and
  (2) the buildings containing the primary offices of the--
  (A) Secretary of State;
  (B) Secretary of Defense;
  (C) Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
  (D) Director of the Selective Service Commission.
  (c) POW/MIA FLAG- As used in this section, the term `POW/MIA flag' means
  the National League of Families POW/MIA flag recognized officially and
  designated by section 2 of Public Law 101-355.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.