 
--S.J.Res. 295--
S.J.Res. 295
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
Joint Resolution
Designating September 10, 1992, as `National D.A.R.E. Day'.
Whereas D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) is the largest and most
effective drug-use prevention education program in the United States, and
is now taught to twenty million youths in grades K-12;
Whereas D.A.R.E. is taught in more than two hundred thousand classrooms
reaching all fifty States, Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa, Puerto
Rico, Costa Rica, Mexico and Department of Defense Dependent Schools worldwide;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. core curriculum, developed by the Los Angeles Police
Department and the Los Angeles Unified School District, helps prevent substance
abuse among school-age children by providing students with accurate information
about alcohol and drugs, by teaching students decisionmaking skills and the
consequences of their behavior and by building students' self-esteem while
teaching them how to resist peer pressure;
Whereas D.A.R.E. provides parents with information and guidance to further
their children's development and to reinforce their decisions to lead
drug-free lives;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. Program is taught by veteran police officers who come
straight from the streets with years of direct experience with ruined lives
caused by substance abuse, giving them unmatched credibility;
Whereas each police officer who teaches the  D.A.R.E. Program completes
eighty hours of specialized training in areas such as child development,
classroom management, teaching techniques, and communication skills; and
Whereas D.A.R.E., according to independent research, substantially impacts
students' attitudes toward substance use and contributes to improved study
habits, higher grades, decreased vandalism and gang activity, and generates
greater respect for police officers: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That September 10, 1992, is designated as
 `National D.A.R.E. Day', and the President of the United States is authorized
 and requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United
 States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.