 
--S.J.Res. 121--
S.J.Res. 121
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-one
Joint Resolution
Designating September 12, 1991, as `National D.A.R.E. Day'.
Whereas D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) is the largest and most
effective drug-use prevention education program in the United States, and
is now taught to 20 million youths in grades K-12;
Whereas D.A.R.E. is taught in more than 150,000 classrooms, reaching more than
3,500 communities in all Department of Defense Dependent Schools worldwide;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program has become a model drug prevention program for
other countries and is now taught in Australia, New Zealand, American Samoa,
Canada, Costa Rica and Mexico;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. core curriculum, developed by the Los Angeles Police
Department and the Los Angeles Unified School District, helps prevent substance
abuse among school-age children by providing students with accurate information
about alcohol and drugs, by teaching students decisionmaking skills and the
consequences of their behavior and by building students' self-esteem while
teaching them how to resist peer pressure;
Whereas D.A.R.E. provides parents with information and guidance to further
their children's development and to reinforce their decisions to lead
drug-free lives;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program is taught by veteran police officers who come
straight from the streets with years of direct experience with ruined lives
caused by substance abuse, giving them a credibility unmatched by teachers,
celebrities, or professional athletes;
Whereas each police officer who teaches the D.A.R.E. Program completes 80
hours of specialized training in areas such as child development, classroom
management, teaching techniques, and communication skills; and
Whereas D.A.R.E., according to independent research, substantially impacts
students' attitudes toward substance use and contributes to improved study
habits, higher grades, decreased vandalism and gang activity, and generates
greater respect for police officers: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That September 12, 1991 is designated as
 `National D.A.R.E. Day', and the President of the United States is authorized
 and requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United
 States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.