 
--S.J.Res. 218--
S.J.Res. 218
One Hundred Second Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety-two
Joint Resolution
Designating the calendar year, 1993, as the `Year of American Craft:
A Celebration
of the Creative Work of the Hand'.
Whereas the twentieth century has witnessed an outpouring of creative
craftsmanship and it is appropriate that we now pay tribute to excellence
in craftsmanship;
Whereas the value of creative work of the hand through craft remains clear
even as the most industrialized century of our history draws to a close;
Whereas peerless craftsmanship, once commonly associated with American
industry, is now a theme of renewed importance and interest;
Whereas the traditional values of craftspeople such as dedication to the
qualities of excellence, perseverance, self-discipline, and integrity, affirm
the work of the hand invested with energy of mind and spirit and will serve
as a continuing force in the improvement of life and culture;
Whereas craft is the hand print of all cultures and through craft we
commemorate the multicultural heritage of our Nation and pay tribute to the
artistic diversity that exists among all people;
Whereas craft forms the root of our cultural richness, variety, and vitality
and serves as a material record that functions as a bridge between past
and present;
Whereas craft is an art form that is easily accessible to many individuals;
Whereas Americans of all ages should be provided with opportunities to
experience the pleasures of the creative work of the hand through craft;
Whereas the dedicated craftsperson is a role model worthy of emulation by
our young;
Whereas craft, inspired by tradition, may be lost unless it is nurtured and
unless the economic and social well-being of its practitioners is advanced; and
Whereas the Congress of the United States recognizes the artistry of today's
American craftspeople: Now, therefore, be it
  Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
  of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION.
  The calendar year, 1993, is designated as the `Year of American Craft:
  A Celebration of the Creative Work of the Hand'.
SEC. 2. PROCLAMATION BY THE PRESIDENT.
  The President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation calling
  upon the people of the United States to observe the Year of American Craft
  with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
SEC. 3. PROCLAMATIONS BY STATE OFFICIALS.
  Each State Governor and each chief executive of each political subdivision
  of each State is urged to issue a proclamation or other appropriate official
  statement calling upon the citizens of such State or political subdivision
  to observe the Year of American Craft with appropriate ceremonies and
  activities.
SEC. 4. CEREMONIES AND ACTIVITIES.
  The ceremonies and activities referred to in sections 2 and 3 should--
  (1) bring attention to craft throughout America;
  (2) recognize the breadth of the contributions made by the craft community
  in America; and
  (3) demonstrate that craft, as an expression of values, is a link that
  joins humankind.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.