[107th Congress Public Law 277]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ277.107]


[[Page 1935]]

                   ENTERPRISE INTEGRATION ACT OF 2002

[[Page 116 STAT. 1936]]

Public Law 107-277
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the National Institute of Standards and Technology to work 
   with major manufacturing industries on an initiative of standards 
        development and implementation for electronic enterprise 
           integration. <<NOTE: Nov. 5, 2002 -  [H.R. 2733]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Enterprise 
Integration Act of 2002.>> 

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 15 USC 278g-5 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Enterprise Integration Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 15 USC 278g-5 note.>> FINDINGS.

    The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Over 90 percent of United States companies engaged in 
        manufacturing are small- and medium-sized businesses.
            (2) Most of these manufacturers produce goods for assemblage 
        into products of large companies.
            (3) The emergence of the World Wide Web and the promulgation 
        of international standards for product data exchange greatly 
        accelerated the movement toward electronically integrated supply 
        chains during the last half of the 1990's.
            (4) European and Asian countries are investing heavily in 
        electronic enterprise standards development, and in preparing 
        their smaller manufacturers to do business in the new 
        environment. European efforts are well advanced in the 
        aerospace, automotive, and shipbuilding industries and are 
        beginning in other industries including home building, furniture 
        manufacturing, textiles, and apparel. This investment could give 
        overseas companies a major competitive advantage.
            (5) The National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
        because of the electronic commerce expertise in its laboratories 
        and quality program, its long history of working cooperatively 
        with manufacturers, and the nationwide reach of its 
        manufacturing extension program, is in a unique position to help 
        United States large and smaller manufacturers alike in their 
        responses to this challenge.
            (6) It is, therefore, in the national interest for the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology to accelerate its 
        efforts in helping industry develop standards and enterprise 
        integration processes that are necessary to increase efficiency 
        and lower costs.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 15 USC 278g-5 and note.>> ENTERPRISE INTEGRATION 
            INITIATIVE.

    (a) Establishment.--The Director shall establish an initiative for 
advancing enterprise integration within the United States. In

[[Page 116 STAT. 1937]]

carrying out this section, the Director shall involve, as appropriate, 
the various units of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, 
including the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
laboratories (including the Building and Fire Research Laboratory), the 
Manufacturing Extension Partnership program established under sections 
25 and 26 of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 
U.S.C. 278k and 278l), and the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality 
Program. This initiative shall build upon ongoing efforts of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology and of the private 
sector, shall involve consortia that include government and industry, 
and shall address the enterprise integration needs of each United States 
major manufacturing industry at the earliest possible date.
    (b) Assessment.--For each major manufacturing industry, the Director 
may work with industry, trade associations, professional societies, and 
others as appropriate, to identify enterprise integration 
standardization and implementation activities underway in the United 
States and abroad that affect that industry and to assess the current 
state of enterprise integration within that industry. The Director may 
assist in the development of roadmaps to permit supply chains within the 
industry to operate as an integrated electronic enterprise. The roadmaps 
shall be based on voluntary consensus standards.
    (c) Reports.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Within 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Director shall 
submit to the Committee on Science of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report on the National Institute of Standards and Technology's 
activities under subsection (b).

    (d) Authorized Activities.--In order to carry out this Act, the 
Director may work with industry, trade associations, professional 
societies, and others as appropriate--
            (1) to raise awareness in the United States, including 
        awareness by businesses that are majority owned by women, 
        minorities, or both, of enterprise integration activities in the 
        United States and abroad, including by the convening of 
        conferences;
            (2) on the development of enterprise integration roadmaps;
            (3) to support the development, testing, promulgation, 
        integration, adoption, and upgrading of standards related to 
        enterprise integration including application protocols; and
            (4) to provide technical assistance and, if necessary, 
        financial support to small- and medium-sized businesses that set 
        up pilot projects in enterprise integration.

    (e) Manufacturing Extension Program.--The Director shall ensure that 
the Manufacturing Extension Program is prepared to advise small- and 
medium-sized businesses on how to acquire the expertise, equipment, and 
training necessary to participate fully in supply chains using 
enterprise integration.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: 15 USC 278g-5 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act--
            (1) the term ``automotive'' means land-based engine-powered 
        vehicles including automobiles, trucks, busses, trains, defense 
        vehicles, farm equipment, and motorcycles;
            (2) the term ``Director'' means the Director of the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology;

[[Page 116 STAT. 1938]]

            (3) the term ``enterprise integration'' means the electronic 
        linkage of manufacturers, assemblers, suppliers, and customers 
        to enable the electronic exchange of product, manufacturing, and 
        other business data among all partners in a product supply 
        chain, and such term includes related application protocols and 
        other related standards;
            (4) the term ``major manufacturing industry'' includes the 
        aerospace, automotive, electronics, shipbuilding, construction, 
        home building, furniture, textile, and apparel industries and 
        such other industries as the Director designates; and
            (5) the term ``roadmap'' means an assessment of 
        manufacturing interoperability requirements developed by an 
        industry describing that industry's goals related to enterprise 
        integration, the knowledge and standards including application 
        protocols necessary to achieve those goals, and the necessary 
        steps, timetable, and assignment of responsibilities for 
        acquiring the knowledge and developing the standards and 
        protocols.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 15 USC 278g-5 note.>> AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Director to carry out 
functions under this Act--
            (1) $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2002;
            (2) $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2003;
            (3) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2004; and
            (4) $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2005.

    Approved November 5, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2733:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-520 (Comm. on Science).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-319 (Comm. on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            July 11, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>