[107th Congress Public Law 348]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ348.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 2971]]

Public Law 107-348
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To direct the Secretary of the Interior to conduct a study of the 
 suitability and feasibility of establishing the Muscle Shoals National 
   Heritage Area in Alabama, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 
                         2002 -  [H.R. 2628]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Muscle Shoals National 
Heritage Area Study Act of 2002.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Muscle Shoals National Heritage Area 
Study Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. STUDY.

    The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with appropriate 
State historic preservation officers, States historical societies, and 
other appropriate organizations, shall conduct a study regarding the 
suitability and feasibility of designating the study area described in 
section 3 as the Muscle Shoals National Heritage Area. The study shall 
include analysis, documentation, and determination regarding whether the 
study area--
            (1) has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural 
        resources that together represent distinctive aspects of 
        American heritage worthy of recognition, conservation, 
        interpretation, and continuing use, and are best managed through 
        partnerships among public and private entities and by combining 
        diverse and sometimes noncontiguous resources and active 
        communities;
            (2) reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and folklife that 
        are a valuable part of the national story;
            (3) provides outstanding opportunities to conserve natural, 
        historic, cultural, or scenic features;
            (4) provides outstanding recreational and educational 
        opportunities;
            (5) contains resources important to the identified theme or 
        themes of the study area that retain a degree of integrity 
        capable of supporting interpretation;
            (6) includes residents, business interests, nonprofit 
        organizations, and local and State governments that are involved 
        in the planning, have developed a conceptual financial plan that 
        outlines the roles of all participants (including the Federal 
        Government), and have demonstrated support for the concept of a 
        national heritage area;
            (7) has a potential management entity to work in partnership 
        with residents, business interests, nonprofit organizations, and 
        local and State governments to develop a national heritage

[[Page 116 STAT. 2972]]

        area consistent with continued local and State economic 
        activity; and
            (8) has a conceptual boundary map that is supported by the 
        public.

SEC. 3. BOUNDARIES OF THE STUDY AREA.

    The study area referred to in section 2 shall be comprised of the 
following:
            (1) The part of the Tennessee River's watershed in northern 
        Alabama.
            (2) The cities of Florence, Sheffield, Tuscumbia, and Muscle 
        Shoals City, Alabama.
            (3) The towns of Anderson, Cherokee, Courtland, Leighton, 
        Lexington, Littleville, Red Bay, Rogersville, Russellville, Town 
        Creek, and Waterloo, Alabama, and their environs.
            (4) Colbert, Lauderdale, Franklin, and Lawrence Counties, 
        Alabama.
            (5) Other areas that have heritage aspects that are similar 
        to those aspects that are in the areas described in paragraphs 
        (1) through (4) and which are adjacent to or in the vicinity of 
        those areas.

SEC. 4. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> REPORT.

    Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date on which funds are 
first made available for this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report on 
the findings, conclusions, and recommendations of the study.

    Approved December 17, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2628:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-398 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Apr. 30, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>