[107th Congress Public Law 127]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ127.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 2405]]

Public Law 107-127
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the President to award a gold medal on behalf of the 
 Congress to General Henry H. Shelton and to provide for the production 
of bronze duplicates of such medal for sale to the public. <<NOTE: Jan. 
                       16, 2002 -  [H.R. 2751]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: General Shelton 
Congressional Gold Medal Act. 31 USC 5111 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``General Shelton Congressional Gold 
Medal Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) General Henry H. Shelton, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
        of Staff, the principal military adviser to the President, the 
        National Security Council, and the Secretary of Defense, has 
        displayed strong leadership, competence, and professionalism in 
        fulfilling his statutory responsibilities throughout Operation 
        Allied Force.
            (2) General Shelton and his subordinates brilliantly planned 
        and coordinated at the national level the successful air 
        campaign in support of Operation Allied Force.
            (3) General Shelton's leadership, foresight, and 
        determination were directly responsible for ensuring a decisive 
        military victory without a single allied combat casualty in 
        Kosovo in 1999.
            (4) As the principal military adviser to the President of 
        the United States, the National Security Council, and the 
        Secretary of Defense, General Shelton's assessments, judgments, 
        recommendations, and determination were invaluable and 
        instrumental in the unprecedented military victory against the 
        forces of Slobodan Milosevic.
            (5) General Shelton's distinction as a ``soldier's 
        soldier'', as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and 
        throughout his military service, including command of the 
        Special Operations Command, the 18th Airborne Corps at Fort 
        Bragg, North Carolina, helicopter forces in Operation Desert 
        Storm, and special forces Green Berets in Vietnam, serves as an 
        inspiration to the Congress and the people of the United States, 
        a grateful Nation.

SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The President is authorized to 
present, on behalf of the Congress, to General Henry H. Shelton a gold 
medal of appropriate design in recognition of his performance

[[Page 115 STAT. 2406]]

as a military leader in coordinating the planning, strategy, and 
execution of the United States and NATO combat action and his invaluable 
contributions to the United States and to the successful return to peace 
in the Balkans as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For purposes of the presentation referred 
to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter referred 
to in this Act as the ``Secretary'') shall strike a gold medal with 
suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to be determined by the 
Secretary.

SEC. 4. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    The Secretary may strike bronze duplicates of the gold medal struck 
pursuant to section 3, under such regulations as the Secretary may 
prescribe, and may sell such bronze duplicates at a price sufficient to 
cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of 
machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal.

SEC. 5. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes 
of chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS; PROCEEDS OF SALE.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated not to exceed $30,000 to carry out section 3.
    (b) Proceeds of Sales.--Amounts received from sales of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 4 shall be credited to the appropriation 
made pursuant to the authorization provided in subsection (a).

    Approved January 16, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2751:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Dec. 19, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>