[107th Congress Public Law 320]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ320.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 2778]]

Public Law 107-320
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To direct the Secretary of the Army to convey a parcel of land to 
     Chatham County, Georgia. <<NOTE: Dec. 4, 2002 -  [H.R. 2595]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE TO CHATHAM COUNTY, GEORGIA.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall convey, by 
quitclaim deed and without consideration, to the Commissioners of 
Chatham County, Georgia, all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to the approximately 12-acre parcel of land located on 
Hutchinson Island, Georgia, adjacent to the Savannah Harbor Tide Gate 
structure.
    (b) Survey To Obtain Legal Description.--The exact acreage and the 
legal description of the parcel to be conveyed under subsection (a) 
shall be determined by a survey that is satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (c) Use of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The parcel conveyed under this section 
        shall remain in public ownership and shall be managed in 
        perpetuity for public recreational purposes or, in the 
        alternative, the parcel may be exchanged for another parcel of 
        equal appraised value that shall remain in public ownership and 
        shall be managed in perpetuity for public recreational purposes.
            (2) Reversion.--If the Secretary determines that the parcel 
        conveyed under this section is being used for purposes other 
        than public recreational purposes, title to the parcel shall 
        revert to the United States or, in the case of an exchange of 
        parcels under paragraph (1), if the Secretary determines that 
        the parcel received in the exchange is being used for purposes 
        other than public recreational purposes title to that parcel 
        shall revert to the United States.

SEC. 2. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Applicability of Property Screening Provisions.--Section 2696 of 
title 10, United States Code, shall not apply to the conveyance under 
section 1.
    (b) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require that 
the conveyance under section 1 be subject to such additional terms and 
conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate and necessary to 
protect the interests of the United States.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2779]]

    (c) Costs of Conveyance.--The County shall be responsible for all 
reasonable and necessary costs, including real estate transaction and 
environmental compliance costs, associated with the conveyance.
    (d) Liability.--The County shall hold the United States harmless 
from any liability with respect to activities carried out, on or after 
the date of the conveyance, on the real property conveyed. The United 
States shall remain responsible for any liability with respect to 
activities carried out, before such date, on the real property conveyed.
    (e) Easements.--The County shall provide to the Secretary all 
required rights of entry or easements necessary for utilities and for 
access to the Savannah Harbor Tide Gate structure and the dock located 
adjacent to the structure.

    Approved December 4, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2595:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Dec. 11, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Nov. 18, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>