[107th Congress Public Law 106]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ106.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 1009]]

Public Law 107-106
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To establish the National Museum of African American History and Culture 
Plan for Action Presidential Commission to develop a plan of action for 
  the establishment and maintenance of the National Museum of African 
    American History and Culture in Washington, D.C., and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 28, 2001 -  [H.R. 3442]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: National Museum of African 
American History and Culture Plan for Action Presidential Commission Act 
of 2001.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Museum of African American 
History and Culture Plan for Action Presidential Commission Act of 
2001''.

SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--There is established the National Museum of African 
American History and Culture Plan for Action Presidential Commission 
(hereafter in this Act referred to as the ``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of not more than 23 
members appointed as follows:
            (1) The President shall appoint seven voting members.
            (2) The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        Senate Majority Leader shall each appoint six voting members.
            (3) In addition to the members appointed under paragraph 
        (2), the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Senate 
        Majority Leader shall each appoint two additional nonvoting 
        members.

    (c) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission shall be chosen from 
the following professional groups:
            (1) Professional museum associations, including the 
        Association of African American Museums and African American 
        Museum Cultural Complex, Inc.
            (2) Academic institutions and groups committed to the 
        research and study of African American life, art, history, and 
        culture, including Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
        and the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies.

SEC. 3. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION.

    (a) Plan of Action for Establishment and Maintenance of Museum.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Reports.>> general.--The Commission shall 
        submit a report to the President and the Congress containing its 
        recommendations with respect to a plan of action for the 
        establishment and maintenance of the National Museum of African 
        American

[[Page 115 STAT. 1010]]

        History and Culture in Washington, D.C. (hereafter in this Act 
        referred to as the ``Museum'').
            (2) National conference.--In developing the recommendations, 
        the Commission shall convene a national conference on the 
        Museum, comprised of individuals committed to the advancement of 
        African American life, art, history, and culture, not later than 
        3 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.

    (b) Fundraising Plan.--The Commission shall develop a fundraising 
plan for supporting the creation and maintenance of the Museum through 
contributions by the American people, and a separate plan on fundraising 
by the African American community.
    (c) Report on Issues.--The Commission shall examine and submit a 
report to the President and the Congress on the following issues:
            (1) The availability and cost of collections to be acquired 
        and housed in the Museum.
            (2) The impact of the Museum on regional African American 
        museums.
            (3) Possible locations for the Museum on or adjacent to the 
        National Mall in Washington, D.C.
            (4) The cost of converting the Smithsonian Institution's 
        Arts and Industries Building into a modern museum with requisite 
        temperature and humidity controls.
            (5) Whether the Museum should be located within the 
        Smithsonian Institution.
            (6) The governance and organizational structure from which 
        the Museum should operate.

    (d) Legislation to Carry Out Plan of Action.--Based on the 
recommendations contained in the report submitted under subsection (a) 
and the report submitted under subsection (c), the Commission shall 
submit for consideration to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on House 
Administration of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules 
and Administration of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations 
of the House of Representatives and Senate a legislative plan of action 
to create and construct the Museum.

SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

    (a) Facilities and Support of Secretary of the Interior.--The 
Secretary of the Interior shall provide the administrative services, 
facilities, and funds necessary for the performance of the Commission's 
functions.
    (b) Compensation.--Each member of the Commission who is not an 
officer or employee of the Federal Government may receive compensation 
for each day on which the member is engaged in the work of the 
Commission, at a daily rate to be determined by the Secretary of the 
Interior.
    (c) Travel Expenses.--Each member shall receive travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with applicable 
provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
Code.

SEC. 5. DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF REPORTS; TERMINATION.

    (a) Deadline.--The Commission shall submit final versions of the 
reports and plans required under section 3 not later than 9 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

[[Page 115 STAT. 1011]]

    (b) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate not later than 30 
days after submitting the final versions of reports and plans pursuant 
to subsection (a).

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for activities of 
the Commission during fiscal year 2002.

    Approved December 28, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3442:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Dec. 11, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>