[107th Congress Public Law 346]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ346.107]


[[Page 2895]]

              VIRGIN RIVER DINOSAUR FOOTPRINT PRESERVE ACT

[[Page 116 STAT. 2896]]

Public Law 107-346
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To convey certain property to the city of St. George, Utah, in order to 
      provide for the protection and preservation of certain rare 
       paleontological resources on that property, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 17, 2002 -  [H.R. 2385]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Virgin River Dinosaur 
Footprint Preserve Act.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint 
Preserve Act''.

SEC. 2. VIRGIN RIVER DINOSAUR FOOTPRINT PRESERVE.

    (a) Authorization for Grant To Purchase Footprint Preserve.--As soon 
as is practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, if the 
City agrees to the conditions set forth in subsection (b), the Secretary 
of the Interior may award to the City a grant equal to the lesser of 
$500,000 or the fair market value of up to 10 acres of land (and all 
related facilities and other appurtenances thereon) generally depicted 
on the map entitled ``Proposed Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint 
Preserve'', numbered 09/06/2001-A, for purchase of that property.
    (b) Conditions of Grant.--The grant under subsection (a) shall be 
made only after the City agrees to the following conditions:
            (1) Use of land.--The City shall use the Virgin River 
        Dinosaur Footprint Preserve in a manner that accomplishes the 
        following:
                    (A) Preserves and protects the paleontological 
                resources located within the exterior boundaries of the 
                Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve.
                    (B) Provides opportunities for scientific research 
                in a manner compatible with subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Provides the public with opportunities for 
                educational activities in a manner compatible with 
                subparagraph (A).
            (2) Reverter.--If at any time after the City acquires the 
        Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve, the Secretary 
        determines that the City is not substantially in compliance with 
        the conditions described in paragraph (1), all right, title, and 
        interest in and to the Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve 
        shall immediately revert to the United States, with no further 
        consideration on the part of the United States, and such 
        property shall then be under the administrative jurisdiction of 
        the Secretary of the Interior.
            (3) Conditions to be contained in deed.--If the City 
        attempts to transfer title to the Virgin River Dinosaur 
        Footprint

[[Page 116 STAT. 2897]]

        Preserve (in whole or in part), the conditions set forth in this 
        subsection shall transfer with such title and shall be 
        enforceable against any subsequent owner of the Virgin River 
        Dinosaur Footprint Preserve (in whole or in part).

    (c) Cooperative Agreement and Assistance.--
            (1) Cooperative agreement.--The Secretary shall enter into a 
        cooperative agreement with the City for the management of the 
        Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve by the City.
            (2) Assistance.--The Secretary may provide to the City--
                    (A) financial assistance, if the Secretary 
                determines that such assistance is necessary for 
                protection of the paleontological resources located 
                within the exterior boundaries of the Virgin River 
                Dinosaur Footprint Preserve; and
                    (B) technical assistance to assist the City in 
                complying with subparagraphs (A) through (C) of 
                subsection (b)(1).
            (3) Additional grants.--
                          (A) In general.--In addition to funds made 
                      available under subsection (a) and paragraph (2) 
                      of this subsection, the Secretary may provide 
                      grants to the City to carry out its duties under 
                      the cooperative agreement entered into under 
                      paragraph (1).
                          (B) Limitation on amount; required non-federal 
                      match.--Grants under subparagraph (A) shall not 
                      exceed $500,000 and shall be provided only to the 
                      extent that the City matches the amount of such 
                      grants with non-Federal contributions (including 
                      in-kind contributions).

    (d) Map on File.--The map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the Department of the Interior.
    (e) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section, the following 
definitions apply:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of St. George, 
        Utah.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Virgin river dinosaur footprint preserve.--The term 
        ``Virgin River Dinosaur Footprint Preserve'' means the 


[[Page 116 STAT. 2898]]

        property (and all facilities and other appurtenances thereon) 
        described in subsection (a).

    Approved December 17, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2385:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-215 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 107-274 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Oct. 2, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    Nov. 19, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>