[107th Congress Public Law 373]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ373.107]


[[Page 3103]]

        CEDAR CREEK AND BELLE GROVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK ACT

[[Page 116 STAT. 3104]]

Public Law 107-373
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To designate the Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park as 
a unit of the National Park System, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 
                       19, 2002 -  [H.R. 4944]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Cedar Creek and 
Belle Grove National Historical Park Act. Virginia. 16 USC 410iii 
note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National 
Historical Park Act''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSE. <<NOTE: USC 410iii.>> 

    The purpose of this Act is to establish the Cedar Creek and Belle 
Grove National Historical Park in order to--
            (1) help preserve, protect, and interpret a nationally 
        significant Civil War landscape and antebellum plantation for 
        the education, inspiration, and benefit of present and future 
        generations;
            (2) tell the rich story of Shenandoah Valley history from 
        early settlement through the Civil War and beyond, and the 
        Battle of Cedar Creek and its significance in the conduct of the 
        war in the Shenandoah Valley;
            (3) preserve the significant historic, natural, cultural, 
        military, and scenic resources found in the Cedar Creek 
        Battlefield and Belle Grove Plantation areas through 
        partnerships with local landowners and the community; and
            (4) serve as a focal point to recognize and interpret 
        important events and geographic locations within the Shenandoah 
        Valley Battlefields National Historic District representing key 
        Civil War battles in the Shenandoah Valley, including those 
        battlefields associated with the Thomas J. (Stonewall) Jackson 
        campaign of 1862 and the decisive campaigns of 1864.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-1.>> 

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Battle of Cedar Creek, also known as the battle of 
        Belle Grove, was a major event of the Civil War and the history 
        of this country. It represented the end of the Civil War's 
        Shenandoah Valley campaign of 1864 and contributed to the 
        reelection of President Abraham Lincoln and the eventual outcome 
        of the war.
            (2) 2,500 acres of the Cedar Creek Battlefield and Belle 
        Grove Plantation were designated a national historic landmark in 
        1969 because of their ability to illustrate and interpret 
        important eras and events in the history of the United States. 
        The Cedar Creek Battlefield, Belle Grove Manor House, the

[[Page 116 STAT. 3105]]

        Heater House, and Harmony Hall (a National Historic Landmark) 
        are also listed on the Virginia Landmarks Register.
            (3) The Secretary of the Interior has approved the 
        Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District 
        Management Plan and the National Park Service Special Resource 
        Study, both of which recognized Cedar Creek Battlefield as the 
        most significant Civil War resource within the historic 
        district. The management plan, which was developed with 
        extensive public participation over a 3-year period and is 
        administered by the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation, 
        recommends that Cedar Creek Battlefield be established as a new 
        unit of the National Park System.
            (4) The Cedar Creek Battlefield Foundation, organized in 
        1988 to preserve and interpret the Cedar Creek Battlefield and 
        the 1864 Valley Campaign, has acquired 308 acres of land within 
        the boundaries of the National Historic Landmark. The foundation 
        annually hosts a major reenactment and living history event on 
        the Cedar Creek Battlefield.
            (5) Belle Grove Plantation is a Historic Site of the 
        National Trust for Historic Preservation that occupies 383 acres 
        within the National Historic Landmark. The Belle Grove Manor 
        House was built by Isaac Hite, a Revolutionary War patriot 
        married to the sister of President James Madison, who was a 
        frequent visitor at Belle Grove. President Thomas Jefferson 
        assisted with the design of the house. During the Civil War 
        Belle Grove was at the center of the decisive battle of Cedar 
        Creek. Belle Grove is managed locally by Belle Grove, 
        Incorporated, and has been open to the public since 1967. The 
        house has remained virtually unchanged since it was built in 
        1797, offering visitors an experience of the life and times of 
        the people who lived there in the 18th and 19th centuries.
            (6) The panoramic views of the mountains, natural areas, and 
        waterways provide visitors with an inspiring setting of great 
        natural beauty. The historic, natural, cultural, military, and 
        scenic resources found in the Cedar Creek Battlefield and Belle 
        Grove Plantation areas are nationally and regionally 
        significant.
            (7) The existing, independent, not-for-profit organizations 
        dedicated to the protection and interpretation of the resources 
        described above provide the foundation for public-private 
        partnerships to further the success of protecting, preserving, 
        and interpreting these resources.
            (8) None of these resources, sites, or stories of the 
        Shenandoah Valley are protected by or interpreted within the 
        National Park System.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-2.>> 

    In this Act:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Cedar 
        Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park Advisory 
        Commission established by section 9.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Boundary 
        Map Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park'', 
        numbered CEBE-80,001, and dated September 2002.
            (3) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Cedar Creek and Belle 
        Grove National Historical Park established under section 5 and 
        depicted on the Map.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3106]]

            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 5. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-3.>>  ESTABLISHMENT OF CEDAR CREEK AND 
            BELLE GROVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Cedar Creek and Belle 
Grove National Historical Park, consisting of approximately 3,000 acres, 
as generally depicted on the Map.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The Map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the offices of the National Park Service, 
Department of the Interior.

SEC. 6. ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-4.>> 

    (a) Real Property.--The Secretary may acquire land or interests in 
land within the boundaries of the Park, from willing sellers only, by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.
    (b) Boundary Revision.--After acquiring land for the Park, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) revise the boundary of the Park to include newly 
        acquired land within the boundary; and
            (2) administer newly acquired land subject to applicable 
        laws (including regulations).

    (c) Personal Property.--The Secretary may acquire personal property 
associated with, and appropriate for, interpretation of the Park.
    (d) Conservation Easements and Covenants.--The Secretary is 
authorized to acquire conservation easements and enter into covenants 
regarding lands in or adjacent to the Park from willing sellers only. 
Such conservation easements and covenants shall have the effect of 
protecting the scenic, natural, and historic resources on adjacent lands 
and preserving the natural or historic setting of the Park when viewed 
from within or outside the Park.
    (e) Support Facilities.--The National Park Service is authorized to 
acquire from willing sellers, land outside the Park boundary but in 
close proximity to the Park, for the development of visitor, 
administrative, museum, curatorial, and maintenance facilities.

SEC. 7. ADMINISTRATION. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-5.>> 

    The Secretary shall administer the Park in accordance with this Act 
and the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the National 
Park System, including--
            (1) the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park 
        Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (16 
        U.S.C. 1 et seq.); and
            (2) the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the 
        preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and 
        antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes'', 
        approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

SEC. 8. MANAGEMENT OF PARK. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-6.>> 

    (a) Management Plan.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
Commission, shall prepare a management plan for the Park. In particular, 
the management plan shall contain provisions to address the needs of 
owners of non-Federal land, including independent nonprofit 
organizations within the boundaries of the Park.
    (b) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Submission of Plan to Congress.--Not later 
than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall

[[Page 116 STAT. 3107]]

submit the management plan for the Park to the Committee on Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate.

SEC. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-7.>>  9. CEDAR CREEK AND BELLE GROVE NATIONAL 
            HISTORICAL PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Cedar Creek and Belle 
Grove National Historical Park Advisory Commission.
    (b) Duties.--The Commission shall--
            (1) advise the Secretary in the preparation and 
        implementation of a general management plan described in section 
        8; and
            (2) advise the Secretary with respect to the identification 
        of sites of significance outside the Park boundary deemed 
        necessary to fulfill the purposes of this Act.

    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 15 
        members appointed by the Secretary so as to include the 
        following:
                    (A) 1 representative from the Commonwealth of 
                Virginia.
                    (B) 1 representative each from the local governments 
                of Strasburg, Middletown, Frederick County, Shenandoah 
                County, and Warren County.
                    (C) 2 representatives of private landowners within 
                the Park.
                    (D) 1 representative from a citizen interest group.
                    (E) 1 representative from the Cedar Creek 
                Battlefield Foundation.
                    (F) 1 representative from Belle Grove, Incorporated.
                    (G) 1 representative from the National Trust for 
                Historic Preservation.
                    (H) 1 representative from the Shenandoah Valley 
                Battlefields Foundation.
                    (I) 1 ex-officio representative from the National 
                Park Service.
                    (J) 1 ex-officio representative from the United 
                States Forest Service.
            (2) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Commission shall be 
        elected by the members to serve a term of one year renewable for 
        one additional year.
            (3) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
            (4) Terms of service.--
                    (A) In general.--Each member shall be appointed for 
                a term of 3 years and may be reappointed for not more 
                than 2 successive terms.
                    (B) Initial members.--Of the members first appointed 
                under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall appoint--
                          (i) 4 members for a term of 1 year;
                          (ii) 5 members for a term of 2 years; and
                          (iii) 6 members for a term of 3 years.
            (5) Extended service.--A member may serve after the 
        expiration of that member's term until a successor has taken 
        office.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3108]]

            (6) Majority rule.--The Commission shall act and advise by 
        affirmative vote of a majority of its members.
            (7) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at least quarterly 
        at the call of the chairperson or a majority of the members of 
        the Commission.
            (8) Quorum.--8 members shall constitute a quorum.

    (d) Compensation.--Members shall serve without pay. Members who are 
full-time officers or employees of the United States, the Commonwealth 
of Virginia, or any political subdivision thereof shall receive no 
additional pay on account of their service on the Commission.
    (e) Travel Expenses.--While away from their homes or regular places 
of business in the performance of service for the Commission, members 
shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed intermittently in 
the Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of title 
5, United States Code.
    (f) Hearings; Public Involvement.--The Commission may, for purposes 
of carrying out this Act, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times 
and places, take such public testimony, and receive such evidence, as 
the Commission considers appropriate. The Commission may not issue 
subpoenas or exercise any subpoena authority.

SEC. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-8.>>  10. CONSERVATION OF CEDAR CREEK AND 
            BELLE GROVE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Encouragement of Conservation.--The Secretary and the Commission 
shall encourage conservation of the historic and natural resources 
within and in proximity of the Park by landowners, local governments, 
organizations, and businesses.
    (b) Provision of Technical Assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
technical assistance to local governments, in cooperative efforts which 
complement the values of the Park.
    (c) Cooperation by Federal Agencies.--Any Federal entity conducting 
or supporting activities directly affecting the Park shall consult, 
cooperate, and, to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate its 
activities with the Secretary in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with the purposes of this Act and the 
        standards and criteria established pursuant to the general 
        management plan developed pursuant to section 8;
            (2) is not likely to have an adverse effect on the resources 
        of the Park; and
            (3) is likely to provide for full public participation in 
        order to consider the views of all interested parties.

SEC. 11. ENDOWMENT. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-9.>> 

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the provisions of subsection 
(b), the Secretary is authorized to receive and expend funds from an 
endowment to be established with the National Park Foundation, or its 
successors and assigns.
    (b) Conditions.--Funds from the endowment referred to in subsection 
(a) shall be expended exclusively as the Secretary, in consultation with 
the Commission, may designate for the interpretation, preservation, and 
maintenance of the Park resources and public access areas. No 
expenditure shall be made pursuant to this section unless the Secretary 
determines that such expenditure is consistent with the purposes of this 
Act.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3109]]

SEC. 12. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-10.>> 

    (a) In General.--In order to further the purposes of this Act, the 
Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with 
interested public and private entities and individuals (including the 
National Trust for Historic Preservation, Belle Grove, Inc., the Cedar 
Creek Battlefield Foundation, the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields 
Foundation, and the Counties of Frederick, Shenandoah, and Warren), 
through technical and financial assistance, including encouraging the 
conservation of historic and natural resources of the Park.
    (b) Technical and Financial Assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
to any person, organization, or governmental entity technical and 
financial assistance for the purposes of this Act, including the 
following:
            (1) Preserving historic structures within the Park.
            (2) Maintaining the natural or cultural landscape of the 
        Park.
            (3) Local preservation planning, interpretation, and 
        management of public visitation for the Park.
            (4) Furthering the goals of the Shenandoah Valley 
        Battlefields Foundation related to the Park.

SEC. 13. ROLES OF KEY PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-
            11.>> 

    (a) In General.--In recognition that central portions of the Park 
are presently owned and operated for the benefit of the public by key 
partner organizations, the Secretary shall acknowledge and support the 
continued participation of these partner organizations in the management 
of the Park.
    (b) Park Partners.--Roles of the current key partners include the 
following:
            (1) Cedar creek battlefield foundation.--The Cedar Creek 
        Battlefield Foundation may--
                    (A) continue to own, operate, and manage the lands 
                acquired by the Foundation within the Park;
                    (B) continue to conduct reenactments and other 
                events within the Park; and
                    (C) transfer ownership interest in portions of their 
                land to the National Park Service by donation, sale, or 
                other means that meet the legal requirements of National 
                Park Service land acquisitions.
            (2) National trust for historic preservation and belle grove 
        incorporated.--The National Trust for Historic Preservation and 
        Belle Grove Incorporated may continue to own, operate, and 
        manage Belle Grove Plantation and its structures and grounds 
        within the Park boundary. Belle Grove Incorporated may continue 
        to own the house and grounds known as Bowman's Fort or Harmony 
        Hall for the purpose of permanent preservation, with a long-term 
        goal of opening the property to the public.
            (3) Shenandoah county.--Shenandoah County may continue to 
        own, operate, and manage the Keister park site within the Park 
        for the benefit of the public.
            (4) Park community partners.--The Secretary shall cooperate 
        with the Park's adjacent historic towns of Strasburg and 
        Middletown, Virginia, as well as Frederick, Shenandoah, and 
        Warren counties in furthering the purposes of the Park.

[[Page 116 STAT. 3110]]

            (5) Shenandoah valley battlefields foundation.--The 
        Shenandoah Valley Battlefields Foundation may continue to 
        administer and manage the Shenandoah Valley Battlefields 
        National Historic District in partnership with the National Park 
        Service and in accordance with the Management Plan for the 
        District in which the Park is located.

SEC. 14. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS. <<NOTE: 16 USC 410iii-12.>> 

    There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
carry out this Act.

    Approved December 19, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4944 (S. 2623):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-713 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Oct. 1, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 19, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>