[107th Congress Public Law 136]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ136.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 2466]]

Public Law 107-136
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To name the national cemetery in Saratoga, New York, as the Gerald B.H. 
Solomon Saratoga National Cemetery, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 
                       24, 2002 -  [H.R. 3392]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) Gerald Brooks Hunt ``Jerry'' Solomon of Glens Falls, New 
        York, served in the House of Representatives for 10 terms, from 
        January 3, 1979, to January 3, 1999, and during that service 
        gained a reputation for being outspoken and tenacious in 
        presenting his views on a wide range of issues.
            (2) Congressman Solomon was born in Okeechobee, Florida, and 
        grew up there during the Great Depression before moving to New 
        York in 1945.
            (3) Congressman Solomon enlisted in the United States Marine 
        Corps at the onset of the Korean War and served in the Marine 
        Corps for 8\1/2\ years on active and reserve duty.
            (4) Before being elected to Congress in 1978, Congressman 
        Solomon was a businessman in Glens Falls, New York.
            (5) During his 20-year congressional career, Congressman 
        Solomon served as the ranking Republican on the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs, where he was recognized by the veterans 
        community as one of its strongest advocates. Among his other 
        accomplishments for veterans, Congressman Solomon spearheaded 
        the effort to create the Cabinet-level Department of Veterans 
        Affairs and successfully led a 15-year drive to establish the 
        Saratoga National Cemetery in Saratoga, New York, where he is 
        now interred.
            (6) Congressman Solomon was also recognized for his efforts 
        to promote pride, patriotism, and volunteerism, and when the 
        Supreme Court ruled that laws prohibiting the burning of the 
        United States flag were unconstitutional, Congressman Solomon 
        was given the assignment to pass a constitutional amendment to 
        prohibit desecration of the flag. The Solomon Amendment passed 
        overwhelmingly in the House, but failed by one vote in the 
        Senate.
            (7) As chairman of the Committee on Rules of the House of 
        Representatives, Congressman Solomon revamped the rules under 
        which the House operates, abolishing proxy voting, opening all 
        meetings to the media and the public, and making Congress 
        subject to the same laws that the American people live under.

[[Page 115 STAT. 2467]]

            (8) During his congressional career, Congressman Solomon was 
        the recipient of dozens of major awards from many national 
        veterans organizations, including the coveted ``Iron Mike 
        Award'', presented to him by the Marine Corps and Marine Corps 
        League, and the Distinguished Citizen Award, presented to him by 
        the National Congressional Medal of Honor Society for his 
        legislative successes on behalf of the United States military 
        and veterans issues.

SEC. 2. NAME OF THE NATIONAL CEMETERY IN SARATOGA, NEW YORK.

    (a) Name.--The national cemetery located in Saratoga, New York, 
shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and 
designated as the ``Gerald B.H. Solomon Saratoga National Cemetery''. 
Any reference to such national cemetery in any law, regulation, map, 
document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be 
considered to be a reference to the ``Gerald B.H. Solomon Saratoga 
National Cemetery''.
    (b) Memorial.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide for 
the placement in the national cemetery referred to in subsection (a) of 
a suitable memorial to honor the memory of Gerald B.H. Solomon and his 
service to the United States.

    Approved January 24, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3392:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Dec. 4, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>