[107th Congress Public Law 282]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ282.107]


[[Page 1993]]

 CLARK COUNTY CONSERVATION OF PUBLIC LAND AND NATURAL RESOURCES ACT OF 
                                  2002

[[Page 116 STAT. 1994]]

Public Law 107-282
107th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To establish wilderness areas, promote conservation, improve public 
land, and provide for high quality development in Clark County, Nevada, 
     and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 6, 2002 -  [H.R. 5200]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress <<NOTE: Clark County Conservation 
of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002.>> assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Clark County Conservation of Public 
Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
Sec. 4. Authorization of appropriations.

 TITLE I--RED ROCK CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA LAND EXCHANGE AND 
                           BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 104. Red Rock Canyon land exchange.
Sec. 105. Status and management of lands.
Sec. 106. General provisions.

                       TITLE II--WILDERNESS AREAS

Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Additions to National Wilderness Preservation System.
Sec. 203. Administration.
Sec. 204. Adjacent management.
Sec. 205. Military overflights.
Sec. 206. Native American cultural and religious uses.
Sec. 207. Release of wilderness study areas.
Sec. 208. Wildlife management.
Sec. 209. Wildfire management.
Sec. 210. Climatological data collection.
Sec. 211. National Park Service lands.

           TITLE III--TRANSFERS OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION

Sec. 301. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to the United States 
           Fish and Wildlife Service.
Sec. 302. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction to National Park 
           Service.

 TITLE IV--AMENDMENTS TO THE SOUTHERN NEVADA PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT ACT

Sec. 401. Disposal and exchange.

                        TITLE V--IVANPAH CORRIDOR

Sec. 501. Interstate Route 15 south corridor.
Sec. 502. Area of Critical Environmental Concern segregation.

[[Page 116 STAT. 1995]]

            TITLE VI--SLOAN CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Purpose.
Sec. 603. Definitions.
Sec. 604. Establishment.
Sec. 605. Management.
Sec. 606. Sale of Federal parcel.
Sec. 607. Right-of-way.

                 TITLE VII--PUBLIC INTEREST CONVEYANCES

Sec. 701. Definition of map.
Sec. 702. Conveyance to the University of Nevada at Las Vegas Research 
           Foundation.
Sec. 703. Conveyance to the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department.
Sec. 704. Conveyance to the City of Henderson for the Nevada State 
           College at Henderson.
Sec. 705. Conveyance to the City of Las Vegas, Nevada.
Sec. 706. Sale of Federal parcel.

                 TITLE VIII--HUMBOLDT PROJECT CONVEYANCE

Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Definitions.
Sec. 803. Authority to convey title.
Sec. 804. Payment.
Sec. 805. Compliance with other laws.
Sec. 806. Revocation of withdrawals.
Sec. 807. Liability.
Sec. 808. National Environmental Policy Act.
Sec. 809. Future benefits.

                   TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 901. Technical amendments to the Mesquite Lands Act 2001.

SEC. 3. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-1 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Agreement.--The term ``Agreement'' means the Agreement 
        entitled ``Interim Cooperative Management Agreement Between the 
        United States of the Interior Bureau of Land Management and 
        Clark County'', dated November 4, 1992.
            (2) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, Nevada.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture with respect to 
                land in the National Forest System; or
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                other Federal land.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
Act.

    TITLE I--RED <<NOTE: Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
     Protection and Enhancement Act of 2002.>> ROCK CANYON NATIONAL 
CONSERVATION AREA LAND EXCHANGE AND BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT

SEC. 101. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Red Rock Canyon National 
Conservation Area Protection and Enhancement Act of 2002''.

[[Page 116 STAT. 1996]]

SEC. 102. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Corporation.--The term ``Corporation'' means the Howard 
        Hughes Corporation, an affiliate of the Rouse Company, with its 
        principal place of business at 10000 West Charleston Boulevard, 
        Las Vegas, Nevada.
            (2) Red rock canyon.--The term ``Red Rock Canyon'' means the 
        Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area, consisting of 
        approximately 195,780 acres of public lands in Clark County, 
        Nevada, specially designated for protection in the Red Rock 
        Canyon National Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 
        U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.), as depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map.
            (3) Red rock canyon map.--The term ``Red Rock Canyon Map'' 
        means the map entitled ``Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
        Act'', dated October 1, 2002.

SEC. 103. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Red Rock Canyon is a natural resource of major 
        significance to the people of Nevada and the United States. It 
        must be protected in its natural state for the enjoyment of 
        future generations of Nevadans and Americans, and enhanced 
        wherever possible.
            (2) In 1998, the Congress enacted the Southern Nevada Public 
        Lands Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263), which 
        provided among other things for the protection and enhancement 
        of Red Rock Canyon.
            (3) The Corporation owns much of the private land on Red 
        Rock Canyon's eastern boundary, and is engaged in developing a 
        large-scale master-planned community.
            (4) Included in the Corporation's land holdings are 1,071 
        acres of high-ground lands at the eastern edge of Red Rock 
        Canyon. These lands were intended to be included in Red Rock, 
        but to date have not been acquired by the United States. The 
        protection of this high-ground acreage would preserve an 
        important element of the western Las Vegas Valley viewshed.
            (5) The Corporation has volunteered to forgo development of 
        the high-ground lands, and proposes that the United States 
        acquire title to the lands so that they can be preserved in 
        perpetuity to protect and expand Red Rock Canyon.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are:
            (1) To accomplish an exchange of lands between the United 
        States and the Corporation that would transfer certain high-
        ground lands to the United States in exchange for the transfer 
        of other lands of approximately equal value to the Corporation.
            (2) To protect Red Rock Canyon and to expand its boundaries 
        as contemplated by the Bureau of Land Management, as depicted on 
        the Red Rock Canyon Map.
            (3) To further fulfill the purposes of the Southern Nevada 
        Public Lands Management Act of 1998 and the Red Rock Canyon 
        National Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990.

SEC. 104. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> RED ROCK CANYON LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Acquisition <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Requirement.--If the Corporation 
offers to convey to the United States all right, title, and interest in 
and to the approximately 1,082 acres of non-Federal land owned by 


[[Page 116 STAT. 1997]]

the Corporation and depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as ``Offered 
Lands proposed addition to the Red Rock Canyon NCA'', the Secretary 
shall accept such offer on behalf of the United States, and not later 
than 90 days after the date of the offer, except as otherwise provided 
in this title, shall make the following conveyances:
            (1) To the Corporation, the approximately 998 acres of 
        Federal lands depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as ``Public 
        land selected for exchange''.
            (2) To Clark County, Nevada, the approximately 1,221 acres 
        of Federal lands depicted on the Red Rock Canyon Map as 
        ``Proposed BLM transfer for county park''.

    (b) Simultaneous Conveyances.--Title to the private property and the 
Federal property to be conveyed pursuant to this section shall be 
conveyed at the same time.
    (c) Map.--The Secretary shall keep the Red Rock Canyon Map on file 
and available for public inspection in the Las Vegas District Office of 
the Bureau of Land Management in Nevada, and the State Office of the 
Bureau of Land Management, Reno, Nevada.
    (d) Conditions.--
            (1) Hazardous materials.--As a condition of the conveyance 
        under --subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall require that the 
        Corporation be responsible for removal of and remediation 
        related to any hazardous materials that are present on the 
        property conveyed to the United States under subsection (a).
            (2) Survey.--As <<NOTE: Deadline.>> a condition of the 
        conveyance under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall require 
        that not later than 90 days after the date of the offer referred 
        to in subsection (a), the Corporation shall provide a metes and 
        bounds survey, that is acceptable to the Corporation, Clark 
        County, and the Secretary, of the common boundary between the 
        parcels of land to be conveyed under subsection (a).
            (3) Lands conveyed to clark county.--As a condition of the 
        conveyance under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary shall require 
        that--
                    (A) the lands transferred to Clark County by the 
                United States must be held in perpetuity by the County 
                for use only as a public park or as part of a public 
                regional trail system; and
                    (B) if the County attempts to transfer the lands or 
                to undertake a use on the lands that is inconsistent 
                with their preservation and use as described in 
                subparagraph (A), such lands shall, at the discretion of 
                the Secretary, revert to the United States.

    (e) Valuation.--
            (1) Equal value exchange.--The values of the Federal parcel 
        and the non-Federal parcel, as determined under paragraph (2)--
                    (A) shall be equal; or
                    (B) if the values are not equal, shall be equalized 
                in accordance with paragraph (3).
            (2) Appraisal.--The values of the Federal parcel and the 
        non-Federal parcel shall be determined by an appraisal, to be 
        approved by the Secretary, that complies with the Uniform 
        Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions.
            (3) Equalization.--

[[Page 116 STAT. 1998]]

                    (A) In general.--If the value of the non-Federal 
                parcel is less than the value of the Federal parcel--
                          (i) the Corporation shall make a cash 
                      equalization payment to the Secretary; or
                          (ii) the Secretary shall, as determined to be 
                      appropriate by the Secretary and the Corporation, 
                      reduce the acreage of the Federal parcel.
                    (B) Disposition of proceeds.--The Secretary shall 
                deposit any cash equalization payments received under 
                subparagraph (A)(i) in accordance with section 
                4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
                Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345).

SEC. 105. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> STATUS AND MANAGEMENT OF 
            LANDS.

    (a) Inclusion <<NOTE: Effective date.>> and Management of Lands.--
Upon the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
administer the lands depicted on the Red Rock Map as ``Public Lands-
proposed addition to the Red Rock Canyon NCA'', exclusive of those lands 
used for the Corps of Engineers R-4 Detention Basin, as part of Red Rock 
and in accordance with the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.) and all other 
applicable laws.

    (b) Inclusion of Acquired Lands.--Upon acquisition by the United 
States of lands under this Act, the Secretary shall--
            (1) administer the lands as part of Red Rock and in 
        accordance with the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
        Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.), the 
        Southern Nevada Public Lands Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 
        105-263), and all other applicable laws; and
            (2) create new maps showing the boundaries of Red Rock as 
        modified or pursuant to this Act, and make such maps available 
        for review at the Las Vegas District Office of the Bureau of 
        Land Management and the State Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, Reno, Nevada.

    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3(a)(2) of the Red Rock Canyon 
National Conservation Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc-
1(a)(2)) is amended by inserting before the period the following: ``, 
and such additional areas as are included in the conservation area 
pursuant to the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area Protection 
and Enhancement Act of 2002''.

SEC. 106. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460ccc-4 note.>> GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Review <<NOTE: Deadline.>> of Appraisal.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
complete a review of the appraisal entitled, ``Complete Self-Contained 
Appraisal Red Rock Exchange, Las Vegas, Nevada'', completed on or about 
June 3, 2002. The difference in appraisal values shall be reimbursed to 
the Secretary by the Corporation in accordance with the Southern Nevada 
Public Lands Management Act of 1998.

    (b) Valid Existing Rights.--The land exchange under this Act shall 
be subject to valid existing rights. Each party to which property is 
conveyed under this Act shall succeed to the rights and obligations of 
the conveying party with respect to any lease, right-of-way, permit, or 
other valid existing right to which the property is subject.
    (c) Technical Corrections.--Nothing in this Act prohibits the 
parties to the conveyances under this Act from agreeing to

[[Page 116 STAT. 1999]]

the correction of technical errors or omissions in the Red Rock Map.
    (d) Withdrawal of Affected Lands.--To the extent not already 
accomplished under law or administrative action, the Secretary shall 
withdraw from operation of the public land and mining laws, subject to 
valid existing rights--
            (1) those Federal lands acquired by the United States under 
        this Act; and
            (2) those Federal lands already owned by the United States 
        on the date of enactment of this Act but included within the Red 
        Rock National Conservation Area boundaries by this Act.

                       TITLE II--WILDERNESS AREAS

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) public land in the County contains unique and 
        spectacular natural resources, including--
                    (A) priceless habitat for numerous species of plants 
                and wildlife; and
                    (B) thousands of acres of pristine land that remain 
                in a natural state;
            (2) continued preservation of those areas would benefit the 
        County and all of the United States by--
                    (A) ensuring the conservation of ecologically 
                diverse habitat;
                    (B) conserving primitive recreational resources; and
                    (C) protecting air and water quality.

SEC. 202. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS PRESERVATION SYSTEM.

    (a) Additions.--The <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> following land in 
the State is designated as wilderness and as components of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Arrow canyon wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 
        27,530 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Arrow 
        Canyon'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the 
        ``Arrow Canyon Wilderness''.
            (2) Black canyon wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and an adjacent portion 
        of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 17,220 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated October 1, 
        2002, which shall be known as the ``Black Canyon Wilderness''.
            (3) Bridge canyon wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising approximately 
        7,761 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall 
        be known as the ``Bridge Canyon Wilderness''.
            (4) Eldorado wilderness.--Certain Federal land within the 
        Lake Mead National Recreation Area and an adjacent portion of 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 31,950 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated

[[Page 116 STAT. 2000]]

        October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the ``Eldorado 
        Wilderness''.
            (5) Ireteba peaks wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and an adjacent portion 
        of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 32,745 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated October 1, 
        2002, which shall be known as the ``Ireteba Peaks Wilderness''.
            (6) Jimbilnan wilderness.--Certain Federal land within the 
        Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising approximately 
        18,879 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Muddy 
        Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the 
        ``Jimbilnan Wilderness''.
            (7) Jumbo springs wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 4,631 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold Butte'', 
        dated October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the ``Jumbo 
        Springs Wilderness''.
            (8) La madre mountain wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Toiyabe National Forest and an adjacent portion of 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 47,180 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Spring Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, 
        which shall be known as the ``La Madre Mountain Wilderness''.
            (9) Lime canyon wilderness.--Certain Federal land managed by 
        the Bureau of Land Management, comprising approximately 23,233 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Gold Butte'', 
        dated October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the ``Lime Canyon 
        Wilderness''.
            (10) Mt. charleston wilderness additions.--Certain Federal 
        land within the Toiyabe National Forest and an adjacent portion 
        of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 13,598 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Spring Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, 
        which shall be included in the Mt. Charleston Wilderness.
            (11) Muddy mountains wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and an adjacent 
        portion of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 48,019 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Muddy Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, 
        which shall be known as the ``Muddy Mountains Wilderness''.
            (12) Nellis wash wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising approximately 
        16,423 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall 
        be known as the ``Nellis Wash Wilderness''.
            (13) North mccullough wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 14,763 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``McCulloughs'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall be 
        known as the ``North McCullough Wilderness''.
            (14) Pinto valley wilderness.--Certain Federal land within 
        the Lake Mead National Recreation Area, comprising

[[Page 116 STAT. 2001]]

        approximately 39,173 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Muddy Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall 
        be known as the ``Pinto Valley Wilderness''.
            (15) Rainbow mountain wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Toiyabe National Forest and an adjacent portion of 
        Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, 
        comprising approximately 24,997 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Spring Mountains'', dated October 1, 2002, 
        which shall be known as the ``Rainbow Mountain Wilderness''.
            (16) South mccullough wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 44,245 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``McCulloughs'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall be 
        known as the ``South McCullough Wilderness''.
            (17) Spirit mountain wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        within the Lake Mead National Recreation Area and an adjacent 
        portion of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land 
        Management, comprising approximately 33,518 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Eldorado/Spirit Mountain'', dated 
        October 1, 2002, which shall be known as the ``Spirit Mountain 
        Wilderness''.
            (18) Wee thump joshua tree wilderness.--Certain Federal land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management, comprising 
        approximately 6,050 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``McCulloughs'', dated October 1, 2002, which shall be 
        known as the ``Wee Thump Joshua Tree Wilderness''.

    (b) Boundary.--
            (1) Lake offset.--The boundary of any portion of a 
        wilderness area designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by 
        Lake Mead, Lake Mohave, or the Colorado River shall be 300 feet 
        inland from the high water line.
            (2) Road offset.--The boundary of any portion of a 
        wilderness area designated by subsection (a) that is bordered by 
        a road shall be at least 100 feet from the edge of the road to 
        allow public access.

    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map and legal 
        description of each wilderness area designated by subsection (a) 
        with the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--Each map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical errors 
        in the map or legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Each <<NOTE: Public inspection.>> map and 
        legal description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, National Park Service, or Forest Service, as 
        applicable.

    (d) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas designated in this section are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2002]]

            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and 
        geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 203. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, each area 
designated as wilderness by this title shall be administered by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall be 
        considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of this 
        Act; and
            (2) any reference in that Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary of the Interior with respect to lands administered by 
        the Secretary of the Interior.

    (b) Livestock.--Within the wilderness areas designated under this 
title that are administered by the Bureau of Land Management, the 
grazing of livestock in areas in which grazing is established as of the 
date of enactment of this Act shall be allowed to continue, subject to 
such reasonable regulations, policies, and practices that the Secretary 
considers necessary, consistent with section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)), including the guidelines set forth in 
Appendix A of House Report 101-405.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Lands and Interests.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of an area designated as 
wilderness by this title that is acquired by the United States after the 
date of enactment of this Act shall be added to and administered as part 
of the wilderness area within which the acquired land or interest is 
located.
    (d) Water Rights.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the lands designated as Wilderness by this Act 
                are within the Mojave Desert, are arid in nature, and 
                include ephemeral streams;
                    (B) the hydrology of the lands designated as 
                wilderness by this Act is locally characterized by 
                complex flow patterns and alluvial fans with impermanent 
                channels;
                    (C) the subsurface hydrogeology of the region is 
                characterized by ground water subject to local and 
                regional flow gradients and artesian aquifers;
                    (D) the lands designated as wilderness by this Act 
                are generally not suitable for use or development of new 
                water resource facilities and there are no actual or 
                proposed water resource facilities and no opportunities 
                for diversion, storage, or other uses of water occurring 
                outside such lands that would adversely affect the 
                wilderness or other values of such lands; and
                    (E) because of the unique nature and hydrology of 
                these desert lands designated as wilderness by this Act 
                and the existence of the Clark County Multi-Species 
                Habitat Conservation Plan it is possible to provide for 
                proper management and protection of the wilderness, 
                perennial springs and other values of such lands in ways 
                different from those used in other legislation.
            (2) Statutory construction.--
                    (A) Nothing in this Act shall constitute or be 
                construed to constitute either an express or implied 
                reservation by

[[Page 116 STAT. 2003]]

                the United States of any water or water rights with 
                respect to the lands designated as Wilderness by this 
                Act.
                    (B) Nothing in this Act shall affect any water 
                rights in the State of Nevada existing on the date of 
                the enactment of this Act, including any water rights 
                held by the United States.
                    (C) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as 
                establishing a precedent with regard to any future 
                wilderness designations.
                    (D) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as 
                limiting, altering, modifying, or amending any of the 
                interstate compacts or equitable apportionment decrees 
                that apportion water among and between the State of 
                Nevada and other States.
                    (E) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as 
                limiting, altering, modifying, or amending the Clark 
                County Multi-Species Habitat Conservation Plan (MSHCP) 
                with respect to the lands designated as Wilderness by 
                this Act including the MSHCP's specific management 
                actions for the conservation of perennial springs.
            (3) Nevada water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of the law of the State 
        of Nevada in order to obtain and hold any water rights not in 
        existence on the date of enactment of this Act with respect to 
        the wilderness areas designated by this Act.
            (4) New projects.--
                    (A) As used in this paragraph, the term ``water 
                resource'' facility means irrigation and pumping 
                facilities, reservoirs, water conservation works, 
                aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower 
                projects, and transmission and other ancillary 
                facilities, and other water diversion, storage, and 
                carriage structures. The term ``water resource'' 
                facility does not include wildlife guzzlers.
                    (B) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, on and 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act, neither the 
                President nor any other officer, employee, or agent of 
                the United States shall fund, assist, authorize, or 
                issue a license or permit for the development of any new 
                water resource facility within the wilderness areas 
                designated by this Act.

SEC. 204. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Congress does not intend for the designation of 
wilderness in the State pursuant to this title to lead to the creation 
of protective perimeters or buffer zones around any such wilderness 
area.
    (b) Nonwilderness Activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a wilderness 
designated under this title shall not preclude the conduct of those 
activities or uses outside the boundary of the wilderness area.

SEC. 205. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        areas designated as wilderness by this title, including military 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within the wilderness 
        areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or

[[Page 116 STAT. 2004]]

            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the wilderness areas.

SEC. 206. NATIVE AMERICAN CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS USES.

    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to diminish the rights of any 
Indian Tribe. Nothing in this Act shall be construed to diminish tribal 
rights regarding access to Federal lands for tribal activities, 
including spiritual, cultural, and traditional food-gathering 
activities.

SEC. 207. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 603 
of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782), 
the public land in the County administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management and the Forest Service in the following areas have been 
adequately studied for wilderness designation:
            (1) The Garrett Buttes Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) The Quail Springs Wilderness Study Area.
            (3) The Nellis A, B, C Wilderness Study Area.
            (4) Any portion of the wilderness study areas--
                    (A) not designated as wilderness by section 202(a); 
                and
                    (B) designated for release on--
                          (i) the map entitled ``Muddy Mountains'' and 
                      dated October 1, 2002;
                          (ii) the map entitled ``Spring Mountains'' and 
                      dated October 1, 2002;
                          (iii) the map entitled ``Arrow Canyon'' and 
                      dated October 1, 2002;
                          (iv) the map entitled ``Gold Butte'' and dated 
                      October 1, 2002;
                          (v) the map entitled ``McCullough Mountains'' 
                      and dated October 1, 2002;
                          (vi) the map entitled ``El Dorado/Spirit 
                      Mountain'' and dated October 1, 2002; or
                          (vii) the map entitled ``Southern Nevada 
                      Public Land Management Act'' and dated October 1, 
                      2002.

    (b) Release.--Except as provided in subsection (c), any public land 
described in subsection (a) that is not designated as wilderness by this 
title--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) land management plans adopted under section 202 
                of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (B) existing cooperative conservation agreements.

    (c) Right-of-Way Grant.--The Secretary shall issue to the State-
regulated sponsor of the Centennial Project the right-of-way for the 
construction and maintenance of two 500-kilovolt electrical transmission 
lines. The construction shall occur within a 500-foot-wide corridor that 
is released from the Sunrise Mountains Instant Study Area in the County 
as depicted on the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act map, dated 
October 1, 2002.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2005]]

SEC. 208. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title affects or 
diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and 
wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, fishing, and 
trapping, in the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (b) Management Activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to maintain or 
restore fish and wildlife populations and the habitats to support such 
populations may be carried out within wilderness areas designated by 
this title where consistent with relevant wilderness management plans, 
in accordance with appropriate policies such as those set forth in 
Appendix B of House Report 101-405, including the occasional and 
temporary use of motorized vehicles, if such use, as determined by the 
Secretary, would promote healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed 
wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values and accomplish 
those purposes with the minimum impact necessary to reasonably 
accomplish the task.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
the State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to 
survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for wildlife 
populations, including bighorn sheep, and feral stock, horses, and 
burros.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection (f), 
the Secretary shall, authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas designated by this 
title if--
            (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by the 
        Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, 
        viable and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
            (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on 
        the wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.

    (e) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--The Secretary may designate by 
regulation areas in consultation with the appropriate State agency 
(except in emergencies), in which, and establish periods during which, 
for reasons of public safety, administration, or compliance with 
applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in 
the wilderness areas designated by this title.
    (f) Cooperative <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Agreement.--No later than one 
year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter 
into a cooperative agreement with the State of Nevada. The cooperative 
agreement shall specify the terms and conditions under which the State 
(including a designee of the State) may use wildlife management 
activities in the wilderness areas designated by this title.

SEC. 209. WILDFIRE MANAGEMENT.

    Consistent with section 4 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133), 
nothing in this title precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from 
conducting wildfire management operations (including operations using 
aircraft or mechanized equipment) to manage wildfires in the wilderness 
areas designated by this title.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2006]]

SEC. 210. CLIMATOLOGICAL DATA COLLECTION.

    Subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, 
nothing in this title precludes the installation and maintenance of 
hydrologic, meteorologic, or climatological collection devices in the 
wilderness areas designated by this title if the facilities and access 
to the facilities are essential to flood warning, flood control, and 
water reservoir operation activities.

SEC. 211. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE LANDS.

    To the extent any of the provisions of this title are in conflict 
with laws, regulations, or management policies applicable to the 
National Park Service for Lake Mead National Recreation Area, those 
laws, regulations, or policies shall control.

           TITLE III--TRANSFERS OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION

SEC. 301. <<NOTE: 16 USC 668dd note.>> TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE 
            JURISDICTION TO THE UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Administrative jurisdiction over the land described 
in subsection (b) is transferred from the Bureau of Land Management to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for inclusion in the Desert 
National Wildlife Range.
    (b) Description of Land.--The parcel of land referred to in 
subsection (a) is the approximately 26,433 acres of land administered by 
the Bureau of Land Management as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Arrow Canyon'' and dated October 1, 2002.
    (c) Wilderness Release.--
            (1) Congress finds that the parcel of land described in 
        subsection (b) has been adequately studied for wilderness 
        designation for the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)).
            (2) The parcel of land described in subsection (b)--
                    (A) shall not be subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with
                          (i) the National Wildlife Refuge System 
                      Administration Act, as amended by the National 
                      Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act of 1997 (16 
                      U.S.C. 668dd-668ee); and
                          (ii) existing cooperative conservation 
                      agreements.

SEC. 302. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460n-1 note.>> TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE 
            JURISDICTION TO NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Administrative jurisdiction over the parcel of land 
described in subsection (b) is transferred from the Bureau of Land 
Management to the National Park Service for inclusion in the Lake Mead 
National Recreation Area.
    (b) Description of Land.--The parcel of land referred to in 
subsection (a) is the approximately 10 acres of Bureau of Land 
Management land, as depicted on the map entitled ``Eldorado/Spirit 
Mountain'' and dated October 1, 2002.
    (c) Use of Land.--The parcel of land described in subsection (b) 
shall be used by the National Park Service for administrative 
facilities.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2007]]

 TITLE IV--AMENDMENTS TO THE SOUTHERN NEVADA PUBLIC LAND MANAGEMENT ACT

SEC. 401. DISPOSAL AND EXCHANGE.

    (a) In General.--Section 4 of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2344) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking 
        ``entitled Las Vegas Valley, Nevada, Land Disposal Map, dated 
        April 10, 1997'' and inserting ``entitled Southern Nevada Public 
        Land Management Act, dated October 1, 2002''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(3)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (iv)--
                          (i) by inserting ``or regional governmental 
                      entity'' after ``local government''; and
                          (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) by redesignating clause (v) as clause (vi); and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (iv) the following:
                          ``(v) up to 10 percent of amounts available, 
                      to be used for conservation initiatives on Federal 
                      land in Clark County, Nevada, administered by the 
                      Department of the Interior or the Department of 
                      Agriculture; and''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) take 
effect on January 31, 2003.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
designated for disposal in this section is withdrawn from entry and 
appropriation under the public land laws, location and entry, under the 
mining laws, and from operation under the mineral leasing and geothermal 
leasing laws until such times as the Secretary terminates the withdrawal 
or the lands are patented.

                        TITLE V--IVANPAH CORRIDOR

SEC. 501. INTERSTATE ROUTE 15 SOUTH CORRIDOR.

    (a) Management of Interstate Route 15 Corridor Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the land located 
        along the Interstate Route 15 corridor south of the Las Vegas 
        Valley to the border between the States of California and 
        Nevada, generally depicted as Interstate 15 South Corridor on 
        the map entitled ``Clark County Conservation of Public Land and 
        Natural Resources Act of 2002'' and dated October 1, 2002, in 
        accordance with the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act 
        of 1998 (112 Stat. 2343) and this section.
            (2) Availability <<NOTE: Public inspection.>> of map.--The 
        map described in paragraph (1) shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
            (3) Multiple use management.--Subject to any land management 
        designations under the 1998 Las Vegas District Resource 
        Management Plan or the Clark County Multi-Species Conservation 
        Plan, land depicted on the map described in paragraph (1) shall 
        be managed for multiple use purposes.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2008]]

            (4) Termination of administrative withdrawal.--The 
        administrative withdrawal of the land identified as the 
        Interstate 15 South Corridor on the map entitled ``Clark County 
        Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002'' 
        and dated October 1, 2002, from mineral entry dated July 23, 
        1997, and as amended March 9, 1998, as further amended July 2, 
        2002, is terminated.
            (5) Withdrawal of land.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
        the corridor described in subsection (b) and the land described 
        in subsection (c)(1) are withdrawn from location and entry under 
        the mining laws, and from operation under the mineral leasing 
        and geothermal leasing laws, until such time as--
                    (A) the Secretary terminates the withdrawal; or
                    (B) the corridor or land, respectively, is patented.

    (b) Transportation and Utilities Corridor.--Notwithstanding sections 
202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary, in consultation with the City of 
Henderson and the County, and in accordance with this section and other 
applicable laws and subject to valid existing rights, shall establish a 
2,640-foot-wide corridor between the Las Vegas valley and the proposed 
Ivanpah Airport for the placement, on a nonexclusive basis, of utilities 
and transportation.
    (c) Ivanpah Airport Environs Overlay District Land Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and valid existing 
        rights, on request by the County, the Secretary shall transfer 
        to the County, without consideration, all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the land identified as 
        Ivanpah Airport noise compatibility area on the map entitled 
        ``Clark County Conservation of Public Land and Natural Resources 
        Act of 2002'' and dated October 1, 2002.
            (2) Conditions for transfer.--As a condition of the transfer 
        under paragraph (1), the County shall agree--
                    (A) to manage the transferred land in accordance 
                with section 47504 of title 49, United States Code 
                (including regulations promulgated under that section); 
                and
                    (B) that if any portion of the transferred land is 
                sold, leased, or otherwise conveyed or leased by the 
                County--
                          (i) the sale, lease, or other conveyance shall 
                      be--
                                    (I) subject to a limitation that 
                                requires that any use of the transferred 
                                land be consistent with the Agreement 
                                and section 47504 of title 49, United 
                                States Code (including regulations 
                                promulgated under that section); and
                                    (II) for fair market value; and
                          (ii) of any gross proceeds received by the 
                      County from the sale, lease, or other conveyance 
                      of the land, the County shall--
                                    (I) contribute 85 percent to the 
                                special account established by section 
                                4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public 
                                Land Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 
                                2345);
                                    (II) contribute 5 percent to the 
                                State for use in the general education 
                                program of the State; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2009]]

                                    (III) reserve 10 percent for use by 
                                the Clark County Department of Aviation 
                                for airport development and noise 
                                compatibility programs.

    (d) Effective Date.--Subsections (b) and (c) shall not take effect 
until construction of the Ivanpah Valley Airport is approved in 
accordance with Public Law 106-362.

SEC. 502. AREA OF CRITICAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN SEGREGATION.

    (a) Temporary Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, any 
Federal land in an Area of Critical Environmental Concern that is 
designated for withdrawal under the 1998 Las Vegas Resource Management 
Plan, and which is not already withdrawn by the effect of this or any 
other Act, is hereby withdrawn from location, entry, and patent under 
the mining laws for a period not to exceed five years. The withdrawal 
shall lapse at the earlier--
            (1) five years; or
            (2) when the Secretary issues a final decision on each 
        proposed withdrawal.

    (b) Administrative <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Withdrawal.--The Secretary 
shall make final decisions on each of the temporary withdrawals 
described in subsection (a) within five years of the date of enactment 
of this Act. Such decisions shall be made consistent with the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1714), and in accordance with 
the 1998 Las Vegas Resource Management Plan.

    (c) Mineral <<NOTE: Deadline.>> Report.--The mineral reports 
required by section 204(c)(12) of the Federal Land Policy and Management 
Act shall be the responsibility of the United States Geological Survey 
and shall be completed for each of the temporary withdrawals described 
in subsection (a) within four years of the date of enactment of this 
Act.

 TITLE <<NOTE: Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area Act.>> VI--SLOAN 
CANYON NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 601. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Sloan Canyon National Conservation 
Area Act''.

SEC. 602. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq.>> PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to establish the Sloan Canyon National 
Conservation Area to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and 
enjoyment of present and future generations the cultural, 
archaeological, natural, wilderness, scientific, geological, historical, 
biological, wildlife, educational, and scenic resources of the 
Conservation Area.

SEC. 603. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-1.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' means 
        the Sloan Canyon National Conservation Area established by 
        section 604(a).
            (2) Federal parcel.--The term ``Federal parcel'' means the 
        parcel of Federal land consisting of approximately 500 acres 
        that is identified as Tract A on the map entitled ``Southern

[[Page 116 STAT. 2010]]

        Nevada Public Land Management Act'' and dated October 1, 2002.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means the 
        management plan for the Conservation Area developed under 
        section 605(b).
            (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Southern 
        Nevada Public Land Management Act'' and dated October 1, 2002.

SEC. 604. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-2.>> ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--For the purpose described in section 602, there is 
established in the State a conservation area to be known as the Sloan 
Canyon National Conservation Area.
    (b) Area Included.--The Conservation Area shall consist of 
approximately 48,438 acres of public land in the County, as generally 
depicted on the map.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        map and legal description of the Conservation Area.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the map or legal 
        description.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public inspection 
        in the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 605. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-3.>> MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management, shall manage the Conservation Area--
            (1) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances the 
        resources of the Conservation Area; and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (B) other applicable law, including this Act.

    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Not later than 3 years 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the State, the city of Henderson, the County, 
        and any other interested persons, shall develop a management 
        plan for the Conservation Area.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall--
                    (A) describe the appropriate uses and management of 
                the Conservation Area;
                    (B)(i) authorize the use of motorized vehicles in 
                the Conservation Area--
                          (I) for installing, repairing, maintaining, 
                      and reconstructing water development projects, 
                      including guzzlers, that would enhance the 
                      Conservation Area by promoting healthy, viable, 
                      and more naturally distributed wildlife 
                      populations; and
                          (II) subject to any limitations that are not 
                      more restrictive than the limitations on such uses 
                      authorized in wilderness areas under section 208; 
                      and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2011]]

                    (ii) include or provide recommendations on ways of 
                minimizing the visual impacts of such activities on the 
                Conservation Area;
                    (C) include a plan for litter cleanup and public 
                lands awareness campaign on public lands in and around 
                the Conservation Area; and
                    (D) include a recommendation on the location for a 
                right-of-way for a rural roadway to provide the city of 
                Henderson with access to the Conservation Area, in 
                accordance with the application numbered N-65874.

    (c) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the 
Conservation Area that the Secretary determines will further the purpose 
described in section 602.
    (d) Motorized Vehicles.--Except as needed for administrative 
purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in 
the Conservation Area shall be permitted only on roads and trails 
designated for the use of motorized vehicles by the management plan 
developed under subsection (b).
    (e) Withdrawal.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        public land in the Conservation Area is withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry and appropriation under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (2) Additional land.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, if the Secretary acquires mineral or other interests in a 
        parcel of land within the Conservation Area after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the parcel is withdrawn from operation of 
        the laws referred to in paragraph (1) on the date of acquisition 
        of the land.

    (f) Hunting, Fishing, and Trapping.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife, 
        including hunting, fishing, and trapping in the Conservation 
        Area.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Regulations.--The Secretary may designate by 
                regulation areas in which, and establish periods during 
                which, for reasons of public safety, administration, or 
                compliance with applicable laws, no hunting, fishing, or 
                trapping will be permitted in the Conservation Area.
                    (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the 
                Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State 
                agency before promulgating regulations under 
                subparagraph (A) that close a portion of the 
                Conservation Area to hunting, fishing, or trapping.

    (g) No Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the Conservation Area 
        shall not create an express or implied protective perimeter or 
        buffer zone around the Conservation Area.
            (2) Private land.--If the use of, or conduct of an activity 
        on, private land that shares a boundary with the Conservation 
        Area is consistent with applicable law, nothing in this title 
        concerning the establishment of the Conservation Area shall 
        prohibit or limit the use or conduct of the activity.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2012]]

SEC. 606. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-4.>> SALE OF FEDERAL PARCEL.

    (a) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> General.--Notwithstanding sections 202 
and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1712, 1713) and subject to valid existing rights, not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to 
the highest qualified bidder all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to the Federal parcel.

    (b) Disposition of Proceeds.--Of the gross proceeds from the 
conveyance of land under subsection (a)--
            (1) 5 percent shall be available to the State for use in the 
        general education program of the State; and
            (2) the remainder shall be deposited in the special account 
        established under the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management 
        Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2345), to be 
        available to the Secretary, without further appropriation for--
                    (A) the construction and operation of facilities to 
                support the management of the Conservation Area;
                    (B) the construction and repair of trails and roads 
                in the Conservation Area authorized under the management 
                plan;
                    (C) research on and interpretation of the 
                archaeological and geological resources of the 
                Conservation Area;
                    (D) conservation and research relating to the 
                Conservation Area; and
                    (E) any other purpose that the Secretary determines 
                to be consistent with the purpose described in section 
                602.

SEC. 607. <<NOTE: 16 USC 460qqq-5.>> RIGHT-OF-WAY.

    Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the City of 
Henderson the public right-of-way requested for public trail purposes 
under the application numbered N-76312 and the public right-of-way 
requested for public trail purposes under the application numbered N-
65874.

                 TITLE VII--PUBLIC INTEREST CONVEYANCES

SEC. 701. DEFINITION OF MAP.

    In this title, the term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Southern 
Nevada Public Land Management Act'' and dated October 1, 2002.

SEC. 702. CONVEYANCE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF NEVADA AT LAS VEGAS RESEARCH 
            FOUNDATION.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, needs land 
                in the greater Las Vegas area to provide for the future 
                growth of the university;
                    (B) the proposal by the University of Nevada, Las 
                Vegas, for construction of a research park and 
                technology center in the greater Las Vegas area would 
                enhance the high tech industry and entrepreneurship in 
                the State; and
                    (C) the land transferred to the Clark County 
                Department of Aviation under section 4(g) of the 
                Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (112 
                Stat. 2346)

[[Page 116 STAT. 2013]]

                is the best location for the research park and 
                technology center.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to provide a suitable location for the 
                construction of a research park and technology center in 
                the greater Las Vegas area;
                    (B) to provide the public with opportunities for 
                education and research in the field of high technology; 
                and
                    (C) to provide the State with opportunities for 
                competition and economic development in the field of 
                high technology.

    (b) Technology Research Center.--
            (1) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding section 4(g)(4) of the 
        Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 
        2347), the Clark County Department of Aviation may convey, 
        without consideration, all right, title, and interest in and to 
        the parcel of land described in paragraph (3) to the University 
        of Nevada at Las Vegas Research Foundation (referred to in this 
        section as ``Foundation'') for the development of a technology 
        research center.
            (2) Condition.--The conveyance under paragraph (1) shall be 
        subject to the condition that the Foundation enter into an 
        agreement that if the land described in paragraph (3) is sold, 
        leased, or otherwise conveyed by the Foundation.
                    (A) the Foundation shall sell, lease, or otherwise 
                convey the land for fair market value;
                    (B) the Foundation shall contribute 85 percent of 
                the gross proceeds from the sale, lease, or conveyance 
                of the land to the special account;
                    (C) with respect to land identified on the map 
                entitled ``Las Vegas Valley, Nevada, Land Sales Map'', 
                numbered 7306A, and dated May 1980, the proceeds from 
                the sale, lease, or conveyance of the land identified on 
                the map contributed to the special account by the 
                Foundation under subparagraph (B) shall be used by the 
                Secretary of Agriculture to acquire environmentally 
                sensitive land in the Lake Tahoe Basin under section 3 
                of Public Law 96-586 (94 Stat. 3383);
                    (D) the Foundation shall contribute 5 percent of the 
                gross proceeds from the sale, lease, or conveyance of 
                the land to the State of Nevada for use in the general 
                education program of the State; and
                    (E) the remainder of the gross proceeds from the 
                sale, lease, or conveyance of the land shall be 
                available for use by the Foundation.
            (3) Description of land.--The parcel of land referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is the parcel of Clark County Department of 
        Aviation land--
                    (A) consisting of approximately 115 acres; and
                    (B) located in the SAW\1/4\ of section 33, T. 21 S., 
                R. 60 E., Mount Diablo Base and Meridian.

SEC. 703. CONVEYANCE TO THE LAS VEGAS METROPOLITAN POLICE DEPARTMENT.

    The Secretary shall convey to the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police 
Department, without consideration, all right, title, and interest

[[Page 116 STAT. 2014]]

in and to the parcel of land identified as ``Tract F'' on the map for 
use as a shooting range.

SEC. 704. CONVEYANCE TO THE CITY OF HENDERSON FOR THE NEVADA STATE 
            COLLEGE AT HENDERSON.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Chancellor.--The term ``Chancellor'' means the 
        Chancellor of the University system.
            (2) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Henderson, 
        Nevada.
            (3) College.--The term ``College'' means the Nevada State 
        College at Henderson.
            (4) Survey.--The term ``survey'' means the land survey 
        required under Federal law to define the official metes and 
        bounds of the parcel of Federal land identified as ``Tract H'' 
        on the map.
            (5) University system.--The term ``University system'' means 
        the University and Community College System of Nevada.

    (b) Conveyance.--
            (1) In <<NOTE: Deadline.>> general.--Notwithstanding the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.) and section 1(c) of the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly 
        known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 
        869(c)), not later than 180 days after the date on which the 
        survey is approved, the Secretary shall convey to the City, 
        without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the parcel of Federal land identified as 
        ``Tract H'' on the map for use as a campus for the College.
            (2) Conditions.--
                    (A) In general.--As a condition of the conveyance 
                under paragraph (1), the Chancellor and the City shall 
                agree in writing--
                          (i) to pay any administrative costs associated 
                      with the conveyance, including the costs of any 
                      environmental, wildlife, cultural, or historical 
                      resources studies;
                          (ii) to use the Federal land conveyed for 
                      educational and recreational purposes;
                          (iii) to release and indemnify the United 
                      States from any claims or liabilities which may 
                      arise from uses that are carried out on the 
                      Federal land on or before the date of enactment of 
                      this Act by the United States or any person;
                          (iv) as soon as practicable after the date of 
                      the conveyance under paragraph (1), to erect at 
                      the College an appropriate and centrally located 
                      monument that acknowledges the conveyance of the 
                      Federal land by the United States for the purpose 
                      of furthering the higher education of citizens in 
                      the State; and
                          (v) to assist the Bureau of Land Management in 
                      providing information to the students of the 
                      College and the citizens of the State on--
                                    (I) public land in the State; and
                                    (II) the role of the Bureau of Land 
                                Management in managing, preserving, and 
                                protecting the public land.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2015]]

                    (B) Valid existing rights.--The conveyance under 
                paragraph (1) shall be subject to all valid existing 
                rights.
            (3) Use of federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The College and the City may use 
                the land conveyed under paragraph (1) for--
                          (i) any purpose relating to the establishment, 
                      operation, growth, and maintenance of the College; 
                      and
                          (ii) any uses relating to such purposes, 
                      including residential and commercial development 
                      that would generally be associated with an 
                      institution of higher education.
                    (B) Other entities.--The College and the City may--
                          (i) consistent with Federal and State law, 
                      lease or otherwise provide property or space at 
                      the College, with or without consideration, to 
                      religious, public interest, community, or other 
                      groups for services and events that are of 
                      interest to the College, the City, or any 
                      community located in the Las Vegas Valley;
                          (ii) allow the City or any other community in 
                      the Las Vegas Valley to use facilities of the 
                      College for educational and recreational programs 
                      of the City or community; and
                          (iii) in conjunction with the City, plan, 
                      finance, (including the provision of cost-share 
                      assistance), construct, and operate facilities for 
                      the City on the Federal land conveyed for 
                      educational or recreational purposes consistent 
                      with this section.
            (4) Reversion.--If the Federal land or any portion of the 
        Federal land conveyed under paragraph (1) ceases to be used for 
        the College, the Federal land or any portion of the Federal land 
        shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the United 
        States.

SEC. 705. CONVEYANCE TO THE CITY OF LAS VEGAS, NEVADA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Las Vegas, 
        Nevada.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.

    (b) Conveyance.--The Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the parcels of land identified as ``Tract C'' and ``Tract D'' on 
the map.
    (c) Reversion.--If a parcel of land conveyed to the City under 
subsection (b) ceases to be used for affordable housing or for a purpose 
related to affordable housing, the parcel shall, at the discretion of 
the Secretary, revert to the United States.

SEC. 706. SALE OF FEDERAL PARCEL.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 202 and 203 of the Federal 
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713) and 
subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall convey as a single 
parcel to the highest qualified bidder all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to approximately 360 acres that is identified 
as the North Half (N\1/2\) of Section 7, Township 23 South, Range 61 
East, M.D.B.&M., Clark County, Nevada and the Northeast Quarter (NE\1/
4\) of the Southeast

[[Page 116 STAT. 2016]]

Quarter (SE\1/4\) of Section 7, Township 23 South, Range 61 East, 
M.D.M., Clark County, Nevada.
    (b) Disposition of Proceeds.--The proceeds from the conveyance of 
the lands described in subsection (a) shall be deposited in accordance 
with section 4(e)(1) of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act 
of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345).

TITLE <<NOTE: Humboldt Project Conveyance Act.>> VIII--HUMBOLDT PROJECT 
CONVEYANCE

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Humboldt Project Conveyance Act''.

SEC. 802. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (3) PCWCD.--The term ``PCWCD'' means the Pershing County 
        Water Conservation District, a public entity organized under the 
        laws of the State of Nevada.
            (4) Pershing county.--The term ``Pershing County'' means the 
        Pershing County government, a political subunit of the State of 
        Nevada.
            (5) Lander county.--The term ``Lander County'' means the 
        Lander County government, a political subunit of the State of 
        Nevada.

SEC. 803. AUTHORITY TO CONVEY TITLE.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act and in accordance with all applicable law, the Secretary 
shall convey all right, title, and interest in and to the lands and 
features of the Humboldt Project, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled the ``Humboldt Project Conveyance Act'', and dated July 3, 
2002, including all water rights for storage and diversion, to PCWCD, 
the State, Pershing County, and Lander County, consistent with the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of Agreement between PCWCD 
and Lander County dated January 24, 2000, the Conceptual Agreement 
between PCWCD and the State dated October 18, 2001, the Letter of 
Agreement between Pershing County and the State dated April 16, 2002, 
and any agreements between the Bureau of Reclamation and PCWCD.
    (b) Map.--As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a map of the Humboldt 
Project Conveyance. In case of a conflict between the map referred to in 
subsection (a) and the map submitted by the Secretary, the map referred 
to in subsection (b) shall control. The map shall have the same force 
and effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary may 
correct clerical and typographical errors in such map and legal 
description. Copies of the map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the Office of the Commissioner of the Bureau of 
Reclamation and in the Office of the Area Manager of the Bureau of 
Reclamation in Carson City, Nevada.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2017]]

    (c) Compliance With Agreements.--All parties to the conveyance under 
subsection (a) shall comply with the terms and conditions of the 
agreements cited in subsection (a).
    (d) Report.--If <<NOTE: Deadline.>> the conveyance required by this 
section has not been completed within 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate that describes--
            (1) the status of the conveyance;
            (2) any obstacles to completion of the conveyance; and
            (3) the anticipated date for completion of the conveyance.

SEC. 804. PAYMENT.

    (a) In General.--As consideration for any conveyance required by 
section 803, PCWCD shall pay to the United States the net present value 
of miscellaneous revenues associated with the lands and facilities to be 
conveyed.
    (b) Withdrawn Lands.--As consideration for any conveyance of 
withdrawn lands required by section 803, the entity receiving title 
shall pay the United States (in addition to amounts paid under 
subsection (a)) the fair market value for any such lands conveyed that 
were withdrawn from the public domain pursuant to the Secretarial Orders 
dated March 16, 1934, and April 6, 1956.
    (c) Administrative Costs.--Administrative costs for conveyance of 
any land or facility under this title shall be paid in equal shares by 
the Secretary and the entity receiving title to the land or facility, 
except costs identified in subsections (d) and (e).
    (d) Real Estate Transfer Costs.--As a condition of any conveyance of 
any land or facility required by section 803, costs of all boundary 
surveys, title searches, cadastral surveys, appraisals, maps, and other 
real estate transactions required for the conveyance shall be paid by 
the entity receiving title to the land or facility.
    (e) NEPA Costs.--Costs associated with any review required under the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for 
conveyance of any land or facility under section 803 shall be paid in 
equal shares by the Secretary and the entity receiving title to the land 
or facility.
    (f) State of Nevada.--The State shall not be responsible for any 
payments under this section. Any proposal by the State to reconvey to 
another entity land conveyed by the Secretary under this title shall be 
pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary providing for fair market 
value to the United States for the lands, and for continued management 
of the lands for recreation, wildlife habitat, wetlands, or resource 
conservation.

SEC. 805. COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.

    Following the conveyance required by section 803, the district, the 
State, Pershing County, and Lander County shall, with respect to the 
interests conveyed, comply with all requirements of Federal, State, and 
local law applicable to non-Federal water distribution systems.

SEC. 806. REVOCATION OF WITHDRAWALS.

    Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on the date of the conveyance 
required by section 803, the Secretarial Orders dated March 16, 1934, 
and April 6, 1956, that withdrew public lands for the Rye Patch 
Reservoir and the Humboldt Sink, are hereby revoked.

[[Page 116 STAT. 2018]]

SEC. 807. LIABILITY.

    Effective <<NOTE: Effective date.>> on the date of the conveyance 
required by section 803, the United States shall not be held liable by 
any court for damages of any kind arising out of any act, omission, or 
occurrence relating to the Humboldt Project, except for damages caused 
by acts of negligence committed by the United States or by its employees 
or agents prior to the date of conveyance. Nothing in this section shall 
be considered to increase the liability of the United States beyond that 
currently provided in chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, 
popularly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''.

SEC. 808. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT.

    Prior to any conveyance under this title, the Secretary shall 
complete all actions as may be required under the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), the Endangered Species Act 
of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), and all other applicable laws.

SEC. 809. FUTURE BENEFITS.

    Upon conveyance of the lands and facilities by the Secretary under 
this title, the Humboldt Project shall no longer be a Federal 
reclamation project and the district shall not be entitled to receive 
any future reclamation benefits with respect to that project, except 
those benefits that would be available to other nonreclamation 
districts.

                   TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 901. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE MESQUITE LANDS ACT 2001.

    Section 3 of Public Law 99-548 (100 Stat. 3061; 110 Stat. 3009-202) 
is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Use of proceeds.--The proceeds of the sale of each 
        parcel completed after the date of enactment of this subsection 
        shall be deposited in the special account established under 
        section 4(e)(1)(C) of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
        Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2345); and shall be available for use by 
        the Secretary--
                    ``(A) to reimburse costs incurred by the local 
                offices of the Bureau of Land Management in arranging 
                the land conveyances directed by this section;
                    ``(B) for the development of a multispecies habitat 
                conservation plan for the Virgin River in Clark County, 
                Nevada, including any associated groundwater monitoring 
                plan; and
                    ``(C) as provided in section 4(e)(3) of that Act 
                (112 Stat. 2346).
            ``(4) Timing.--Not <<NOTE: Deadline.>> later than 90 days 
        after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall 
        complete the sale of any parcel authorized to be conveyed 
        pursuant to this section and for which the Secretary has 
        received notification from the city under paragraph (1).''; and

[[Page 116 STAT. 2019]]

            (2) in subsection (f)(2)(B), by adding at the end the 
        following:
                          ``(v) Sec. 7.''.

    Approved November 6, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5200 (S. 2612):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-750 (Comm. on Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 148 (2002):
            Oct. 16, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>