[107th Congress Public Law 39]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ039.107]


[[Page 115 STAT. 222]]

Public Law 107-39
107th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
    Expressing the sense of the Senate and House of Representatives 
 regarding the terrorist attacks launched against the United States on 
     September 11, 2001. <<NOTE: Sept. 18, 2001 -  [S.J. Res. 22]>> 

Whereas on September 11, 2001, terrorists hijacked and destroyed four 
    civilian aircraft, crashing two of them into the towers of the World 
    Trade Center in New York City, and a third into the Pentagon outside 
    Washington, D.C.;
Whereas thousands of innocent Americans were killed and injured as a 
    result of these attacks, including the passengers and crew of the 
    four aircraft, workers in the World Trade Center and in the 
    Pentagon, rescue workers, and bystanders;
Whereas these attacks destroyed both towers of the World Trade Center, 
    as well as adjacent buildings, and seriously damaged the Pentagon; 
    and
Whereas these attacks were by far the deadliest terrorist attacks ever 
    launched against the United States, and, by targeting symbols of 
    American strength and success, clearly were intended to intimidate 
    our Nation and weaken its resolve: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) condemns in the strongest possible terms the terrorists 
        who planned and carried out the September 11, 2001, attacks 
        against the United States, as well as their sponsors;
            (2) extends its deepest condolences to the victims of these 
        heinous and cowardly attacks, as well as to their families, 
        friends, and loved ones;
            (3) is certain that the people of the United States will 
        stand united as our Nation begins the process of recovering and 
        rebuilding in the aftermath of these tragic acts;
            (4) commends the heroic actions of the rescue workers, 
        volunteers, and State and local officials who responded to these 
        tragic events with courage, determination, and skill;
            (5) declares that these premeditated attacks struck not only 
        at the people of America, but also at the symbols and structures 
        of our economic and military strength, and that the United 
        States is entitled to respond under international law;
            (6) thanks those foreign leaders and individuals who have 
        expressed solidarity with the United States in the aftermath of 
        the attacks, and asks them to continue to stand with the United 
        States in the war against international terrorism;
            (7) commits to support increased resources in the war to 
        eradicate terrorism;

[[Page 115 STAT. 223]]

            (8) supports the determination of the President, in close 
        consultation with Congress, to bring to justice and punish the 
        perpetrators of these attacks as well as their sponsors; and
            (9) declares that September 12, 2001, shall be a National 
        Day of Unity and Mourning, and that when Congress adjourns 
        today, it stands adjourned out of respect to the victims of the 
        terrorist attacks.

    Approved September 18, 2001.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 22 (H.J. Res. 61):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 147 (2001):
            Sept. 12, considered and passed Senate and House.

                                  <all>