[107th Congress Public Law 209]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ209.107]


[[Page 116 STAT. 931]]

Public Law 107-209
107th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
  Conferring honorary citizenship of the United States posthumously on 
     Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roche Gilbert du Motier, the Marquis de 
          Lafayette. <<NOTE: Aug. 6, 2002 -  [S.J. Res. 13]>> 

Whereas the United States has conferred honorary citizenship on four 
    other occasions in more than 200 years of its independence, and 
    honorary citizenship is and should remain an extraordinary honor not 
    lightly conferred nor frequently granted;
Whereas Marie Joseph Paul Yves Roche Gilbert du Motier, the Marquis de 
    Lafayette or General Lafayette, voluntarily put forth his own money 
    and risked his life for the freedom of Americans;
Whereas the Marquis de Lafayette, by an Act of Congress, was voted to 
    the rank of Major General;
Whereas, during the Revolutionary War, General Lafayette was wounded at 
    the Battle of Brandywine, demonstrating bravery that forever 
    endeared him to the American soldiers;
Whereas the Marquis de Lafayette secured the help of France to aid the 
    United States' colonists against Great Britain;
Whereas the Marquis de Lafayette was conferred the honor of honorary 
    citizenship by the Commonwealth of Virginia and the State of 
    Maryland;
Whereas the Marquis de Lafayette was the first foreign dignitary to 
    address Congress, an honor which was accorded to him upon his return 
    to the United States in 1824;
Whereas, upon his death, both the House of Representatives and the 
    Senate draped their chambers in black as a demonstration of respect 
    and gratitude for his contribution to the independence of the United 
    States;
Whereas an American flag has flown over his grave in France since his 
    death and has not been removed, even while France was occupied by 
    Nazi Germany during World War II; and
Whereas the Marquis de Lafayette gave aid to the United States in her 
    time of need and is forever a symbol of freedom: Now, therefore, be 
    it

[[Page 116 STAT. 932]]

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Marie Joseph Paul Yves 
Roche Gilbert du Motier, the Marquis de Lafayette, is proclaimed 
posthumously to be an honorary citizen of the United States of America.

    Approved August 6, 2002.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 13:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 107-595 (Comm. on the Judiciary).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 147 (2001):
                                    Dec. 18, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.
                                                        Vol. 148 (2002):
                                    July 22, considered and passed 
                                        House, amended.
                                    July 24, Senate concurred in House 
                                        amendments.

                                  <all>