[104th Congress Public Law 90]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ90.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3]]

Public Law 104-90
104th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1996, and 
     for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 4, 1996 -  [H.J. Res. 153]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: District of 
Columbia.>> That the following sums are hereby appropriated, out of the 
general fund and enterprise funds of the District of Columbia for the 
District of Columbia for the fiscal year 1996, and for other purposes, 
namely:

    Sec. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary under the authority 
and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the 
fiscal year 1995 for continuing projects or activities including the 
costs of direct loans and loan guarantees (not otherwise specifically 
provided for in this title of this joint resolution) which were 
conducted in the fiscal year 1995 and for which appropriations, funds, 
or other authority would be available in the following appropriations 
Act:
            The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1996:

Provided, That whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted in this Act is greater than that which 
would be available or granted under current operations, the pertinent 
project or activity shall be continued at a rate for operations not 
exceeding the current rate.
    (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the 
authority which would be granted under the Act listed in this section as 
passed by the House as of the date of enactment of this joint 
resolution, is different from that which would be available or granted 
under such Act as passed by the Senate as of the date of enactment of 
this joint resolution, the pertinent project or activity shall be 
continued at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the 
rate permitted by the action of the House or the Senate, whichever is 
lower, under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable 
appropriations Act for the fiscal year 1995: Provided, That where an 
item is not included in either version or where an item is included in 
only one version of the Act as passed by both Houses as of the date of 
enactment of this joint resolution, the pertinent project or activity 
shall not be continued except as provided for in section 111 or 112 
under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the applicable 
appropriations Act for the fiscal year 1995 and under the authority and 
conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal 
year 1995.
    Sec. 102. Appropriations made by section 101 shall be available to 
the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent 
appropriations Act.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4]]

    Sec. 103. No appropriation or funds made available or authority 
granted pursuant to section 101 shall be used to initiate or resume any 
project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other authority 
were not available during the fiscal year 1995.
    Sec. 104. No provision which is included in the appropriations Act 
enumerated in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable 
appropriations Act for fiscal year 1995 and which by its terms is 
applicable to more than one appropriation, fund, or authority shall be 
applicable to any appropriation, fund, or authority provided in this 
title of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 105. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this 
title of this joint resolution shall cover all obligations or 
expenditures incurred for any program, project, or activity during the 
period for which funds or authority for such project or activity are 
available under this title of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 106. <<NOTE: Termination date.>> Unless otherwise provided for 
in this title of this joint resolution or in the applicable 
appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made available and 
authority granted pursuant to this title of this joint resolution shall 
be available until (a) enactment into law of an appropriation for any 
project or activity provided for in this title of this joint resolution, 
or (b) the enactment into law of the applicable appropriations Act by 
both Houses without any provision for such project or activity, or (c) 
January 25, 1996, whichever first occurs.

    Sec. 107. <<NOTE: Abortion.>> Notwithstanding any other provision of 
this title of this joint resolution, except section 106, none of the 
funds appropriated under this title of this joint resolution shall be 
expended for any abortion except where the life of the mother would be 
endangered if the fetus were carried to term or where the pregnancy is 
the result of an act of rape or incest.

    Sec. 108. Expenditures made pursuant to this title of this joint 
resolution shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or 
authorization whenever a bill in which such applicable appropriation, 
fund, or authorization is contained is enacted into law.
    Sec. 109. No provision in the appropriations Act for the fiscal year 
1996 referred to in section 101 of this title of this joint resolution 
that makes the availability of any appropriation provided therein 
dependent upon the enactment of additional authorizing or other 
legislation shall be effective before the date set forth in section 
106(c) of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 110. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority 
granted pursuant to this title of this joint resolution may be used 
without regard to the time limitations for submission and approval of 
apportionments set forth in section 1513 of title 31, United States 
Code, but nothing herein shall be construed to waive any other provision 
of law governing the apportionment of funds.
    Sec. 111. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title of this 
joint resolution, except section 106, whenever the Act listed in section 
101 as passed by both the House and Senate as of the date of enactment 
of this joint resolution, does not include funding for an ongoing 
project or activity for which there is a budget request, or whenever the 
rate for operations for an ongoing project or activity provided by 
section 101 for which there is a budget request would result in the 
project or activity being significantly reduced, the pertinent project 
or activity may be continued

[[Page 110 STAT. 5]]

under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable 
appropriations Act for the fiscal year 1995 by increasing the rate for 
operations provided by section 101 to a rate for operations not to 
exceed one that provides the minimal level that would enable existing 
activities to continue. No new contracts or grants shall be awarded in 
excess of an amount that bears the same ratio to the rate for operations 
provided by this section as the number of days covered by this 
resolution bears to 366. For the purposes of this title of this joint 
resolution the minimal level means a rate for operations that is reduced 
from the current rate by 25 percent.
    Sec. 112. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title of this 
joint resolution, except section 106, whenever the rate for operations 
for any continuing project or activity provided by section 101 or 
section 111 for which there is a budget request would result in a 
furlough of Government employees, that rate for operations may be 
increased to the minimum level that would enable the furlough to be 
avoided. No new contracts or grants shall be awarded in excess of an 
amount that bears the same ratio to the rate for operations provided by 
this section as the number of days covered by this resolution bears to 
366.
    Sec. 113. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title of this 
joint resolution, except sections 106, 111, and 112, for those programs 
that had high initial rates of operation or complete distribution of 
funding at the beginning of the fiscal year in fiscal year 1995 because 
of distributions of funding to States, foreign countries, grantees, or 
others, similar distributions of funds for fiscal year 1996 shall not be 
made and no grants shall be awarded for such programs funded by this 
title of this resolution that would impinge on final funding 
prerogatives.
    Sec. 114. This title of this joint resolution shall be implemented 
so that only the most limited funding action of that permitted in this 
title of this resolution shall be taken in order to provide for 
continuation of projects and activities.
    Sec. 115. The provisions of section 132 of the District of Columbia 
Appropriations Act, 1988, Public Law 100-202, shall not apply for this 
title of this joint resolution.
    Sec. 116. <<NOTE: Domestic partners.>> Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this title of this joint resolution, except section 106, 
none of the funds appropriated under this title of this joint resolution 
shall be used to


implement or enforce any system of registration of unmarried, cohabiting 
couples whether they are homosexual, lesbian, heterosexual, including 
but not limited to registration for the purpose of extending employment, 
health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the same basis that 
such benefits are extended to legally married couples; nor shall any 
funds made available pursuant to any provision of this title of this 
joint resolution otherwise be


[[Page 110 STAT. 6]]

used to implement or enforce D.C. Act 9-188, signed by the Mayor of the 
District of Columbia on April 15, 1992.

    Approved January 4, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 153:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Jan. 3, considered and passed House.
            Jan. 4, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Jan. 4, Presidential statement.

                                  <all>