[104th Congress Public Law 329]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ329.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 4005]]

Public Law 104-329
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish United States commemorative coin programs, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Oct. 20, 1996 -  [H.R. 1776]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: United States 
Commemorative Coin Act of 1996.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5101 note.>>     (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited 
as the ``United States Commemorative Coin Act of 1996''.

    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

                  TITLE I--COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAMS

Sec. 101. Commemorative coin programs.
Sec. 102. Design.
Sec. 103. Legal tender.
Sec. 104. Sources of bullion.
Sec. 105. Quality of coins.
Sec. 106. Sale of coins.
Sec. 107. General waiver of procurement regulations.
Sec. 108. Financial assurances.

  TITLE II--NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS MEMORIAL MAINTENANCE FUND

Sec. 201. National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Maintenance Fund.

       TITLE III--STUDY OF FIFTY STATES COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAM

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302. Study.
Sec. 303. Fixed terms for members of the Citizens Commemorative Coin 
           Advisory Committee.
Sec. 304. Mint managerial staffing reform.

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5112 note.>> SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act--
            (1) the term ``Fund'' means the National Law Enforcement 
        Officers Memorial Maintenance Fund established under section 
        201;
            (2) the term ``recipient organization'' means an 
        organization described in section 101 to which surcharges 
        received by the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under 
        this Act are paid; and
            (3) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Treasury.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4006]]

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5112 note.>> TITLE I--COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAMS

SEC. 101. COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAMS.

    In accordance with the recommendations of the Citizens Commemorative 
Coin Advisory Committee, the Secretary shall mint and issue the 
following coins:
            (1) Dolley madison.--
                    (A) In general.--In commemoration of the 150th 
                anniversary of the death of Dolley Madison, the 
                Secretary shall mint and issue not more than 500,000 $1 
                coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 26.73 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent 

                      copper.
                    (B) Design of coins.--The design of the coins minted 
                under this paragraph shall be emblematic of the 150th 
                anniversary of the death of Dolley Madison and the life 
                and achievements of the wife of the fourth President of 
                the United States.
                    (C) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (D) Issuance of coins.--
                          (i) Commencement of issuance.--The Secretary 
                      may issue coins minted under this paragraph 
                      beginning January 1, 1999.
                          (ii) Termination of minting authority.--No 
                      coins may be minted under this paragraph after 
                      December 31, 1999.
                    (E) Surcharges.--All sales of the coins issued under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $10 per 
                coin.
                    (F) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act), all surcharges received by 
                the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this 
                paragraph shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the 
                National Trust for Historic Preservation in the United 
                States (hereafter in this paragraph referred to as the 
                ``National Trust'') to be used--
                          (i) to establish an endowment to be a 
                      permanent source of support for Montpelier, the 
                      home of James and Dolley Madison and a museum 
                      property of the National Trust; and
                          (ii) to fund capital restoration projects at 
                      Montpelier.
            (2) George washington.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall mint and issue 
                not more than 100,000 $5 coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 8.359 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent 
                      alloy.
                    (B) Design of coins.--The design of the coins minted 
                under this paragraph shall be emblematic of George 
                Washington, the first President of the United States.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4007]]

                    (C) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (D) Issuance of coins.--
                          (i) Commencement of issuance.--The Secretary 
                      may issue coins minted under this paragraph 
                      beginning May 1, 1999.
                          (ii) Termination of minting authority.--No 
                      coins may be minted under this paragraph after 
                      November 31, 1999.
                    (E) Surcharges.--All sales of coins minted under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $35 per 
                coin.
                    (F) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act), all surcharges received by 
                the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this 
                paragraph shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the 
                Mount Vernon Ladies' Association (hereafter in this 
                paragraph referred to as the ``Association'') to be 
                used--
                          (i) to supplement the Association's endowment 
                      for the purpose of providing a permanent source of 
                      support for the preservation of George 
                      Washington's home; and
                          (ii) to provide financial support for the 
                      continuation and expansion of the Association's 
                      efforts to 
                      educate the American people about the life of 
                      George Washington.
            (3) Black revolutionary war patriots.--
                    (A) In general.--In commemoration of Black 
                Revolutionary War patriots and the 275th anniversary of 
                the birth of the first Black Revolutionary War patriot, 
                Crispus Attucks, who was the first American colonist 
                killed by British troops during the Revolutionary 
                period, the 
                Secretary shall mint and issue not more than 500,000 $1 
                coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 26.73 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent 

                      copper.
                    (B) Design of coins.--The design of the coins minted 
                under this paragraph--
                          (i) on the obverse side of the coins, shall be 
                      emblematic of the first Black Revolutionary War 
                      patriot, Crispus Attucks; and
                          (ii) on the reverse side of such coins, shall 
                      be emblematic of the Black Revolutionary War 
                      Patriots Memorial.
                    (C) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (D) Issuance of coins.--The Secretary may issue 
                coins minted under this paragraph only during the period 
                beginning on January 1, 1998, and ending on December 31, 
                1998.
                    (E) Surcharges.--All sales of coins issued under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $10 per 
                coin.
                    (F) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section

[[Page 110 STAT. 4008]]

                301(b) of this Act), all surcharges received by the 
                Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this 
                paragraph shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the 
                Black Revolutionary War Patriots Foundation for the 
                purpose of establishing an endowment to support the 
                construction of a Black Revolutionary War Patriots 
                Memorial.
            (4) Franklin delano roosevelt.--
                    (A) In general.--To commemorate the public opening 
                of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in Washington, 
                D.C., which will honor President Roosevelt's leadership 
                and legacy, during a 1-year period beginning on or after 
                May 15, 1997, the Secretary shall issue not more than 
                100,000 $5 coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 8.359 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent 
                      alloy.
                    (B) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (C) Surcharges.--All sales of the coins issued under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $35 per 
                coin.
                    (D) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act), all surcharges received by 
                the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this 
                paragraph shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the 
                Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission.
            (5) Yellowstone national park.--
                    (A) In general.--To commemorate the 125th 
                anniversary of the establishment of Yellowstone National 
                Park as the first national park in the United States, 
                and the birth of the national park idea, during a 1-year 
                period beginning in 1999, the Secretary shall issue not 
                more than 500,000 $1 coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 26.73 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent 
                      alloy.
                    (B) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (C) Surcharges.--All sales of the coins issued under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $10 per 
                coin.
                    (D) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act), all surcharges received by 
                the Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this 
                paragraph shall be promptly paid by the Secretary in 
                accordance with the following:
                          (i) Fifty percent of the surcharges received 
                      shall be paid to the National Park Foundation to 
                      be used for the support of national parks.
                          (ii) Fifty percent of the surcharges received 
                      shall be paid to Yellowstone National Park.
            (6) National law enforcement officers memorial.--
                    (A) In general.--To recognize the sacrifice of law 
                enforcement officers and their families in preserving 
                public safety, during a 1-year period beginning on or 
                after

[[Page 110 STAT. 4009]]

                December 15, 1997, the Secretary shall issue not more 
                than 500,000 $1 coins, each of which shall--
                          (i) weigh 26.73 grams;
                          (ii) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                          (iii) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent 
                      alloy.
                    (B) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (C) Surcharges.--All sales of the coins issued under 
                this paragraph shall include a surcharge of $10 per 
                coin.
                    (D) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act), after receiving surcharges 
                from the sale of the coins issued under this paragraph, 
                the Secretary shall transfer to the Secretary of the 
                Interior an amount equal to the surcharges received from 
                the sale of the coins issued under this paragraph, which 
                amount shall be deposited in the Fund established under 
                section 201.
            (7) Jackie robinson.--
                    (A) In general.--In commemoration of the 50th 
                anniversary of the breaking of the color barrier in 
                major league baseball by Jackie Robinson and the legacy 
                that Jackie Robinson left to society, the Secretary 
                shall mint and issue--
                          (i) not more than 100,000 $5 coins, each of 
                      which shall--
                                    (I) weigh 8.359 grams;
                                    (II) have a diameter of 0.850 
                                inches; and
                                    (III) contain 90 percent gold and 10 
                                percent alloy; and
                          (ii) not more than 200,000 $1 coins, each of 
                      which shall--
                                    (I) weigh 26.73 grams;
                                    (II) have a diameter of 1.500 
                                inches; and
                                    (III) contain 90 percent silver and 
                                10 percent copper.
                    (B) Design of coins.--The design of the coins minted 
                under this paragraph shall be emblematic of 
                Jackie Robinson and his contributions to major league 
                baseball and to society.
                    (C) Mint facility.--Only 1 facility of the United 
                States Mint may be used to strike any particular quality 
                of the coins minted under this paragraph.
                    (D) Issuance of coins.--The Secretary may issue 
                coins minted under this paragraph only during the period 
                beginning on July 1, 1997, and ending on July 1, 1998.
                    (E) Surcharges.--All sales of the coins issued 
                under--
                          (i) subparagraph (A)(i) shall include a 
                      surcharge of $35 per coin; and
                          (ii) subparagraph (A)(ii) shall include a 
                      surcharge of $10 per coin.
                    (F) Distribution of surcharges.--Subject to section 
                5134(f) of title 31, United States Code (as added by 
                section 301(b) of this Act)--
                          (i) all surcharges received by the Secretary 
                      from the sale of the initial 100,000 coins issued 
                      under subparagraph (A)(ii), shall be promptly paid 
                      by the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4010]]

                      Secretary to the National Fund for the United 
                      States Botanic Garden; and
                          (ii) all surcharges received by the Secretary 
                      from the sale of any coins issued under this 
                      paragraph (other than the coins described in 
                      clause (i)) shall be promptly paid by the 
                      Secretary to the Jackie Robinson Foundation for 
                      the purposes of--
                                    (I) enhancing the programs of the 
                                Jackie Robinson Foundation in the fields 
                                of education and youth leadership skills 
                                development; and
                                    (II) increasing the availability of 
                                scholarships for economically 
                                disadvantaged youths.

SEC. 102. DESIGN.

    (a) Selection.--The design for each coin issued under this paragraph 
shall be--
            (1) selected by the Secretary after consultation with the 
        appropriate recipient organization or organizations and the 
        Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (2) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory 
        Committee.

    (b) Designation and Inscriptions.--On each coin issued under this 
paragraph there shall be--
            (1) a designation of the value of the coin;
            (2) an inscription of the year; and
            (3) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God We 
        Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus Unum''.

SEC. 103. LEGAL TENDER.

    (a) Legal Tender.--The coins issued under this title shall be legal 
tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Numismatic Items.--For purposes of section 5134(f) of title 31, 
United States Code, all coins minted under this title shall be 
considered to be numismatic items.

SEC. 104. SOURCES OF BULLION.

    (a) Gold.--The Secretary shall obtain gold for minting coins under 
this title pursuant to the authority of the Secretary under other 
provisions of law.
    (b) Silver.--The Secretary shall obtain silver for minting coins 
under this title from sources the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate, including stockpiles established under the Strategic and 
Critical Materials Stock Piling Act.

SEC. 105. QUALITY OF COINS.

    Each coin minted under this title shall be issued in uncirculated 
and proof qualities.

SEC. 106. SALE OF COINS.

    (a) Sale Price.--Each coin issued under this title shall be sold by 
the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (1) the face value of the coin;
            (2) the surcharge provided in section 101 with respect to 
        the coin; and
            (3) the cost of designing and issuing the coin (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4011]]

    (b) Prepaid Orders.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this title before the issuance of 
        such coins.
            (2) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under paragraph (1) shall be at a reasonable discount.

SEC. 107. GENERAL WAIVER OF PROCUREMENT REGULATIONS.

    Section 5112(j) of title 31, United States Code, shall apply to the 
procurement of goods or services necessary to carrying out the programs 
and operations of the United States Mint under this title.

SEC. 108. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.

    (a) No Net Cost to the Government.--The Secretary shall take such 
actions as may be necessary to ensure that minting and issuing coins 
under this title will not result in any net cost to the United States 
Government.
    (b) Payment for Coins.--A coin shall not be issued under this title 
unless the Secretary has received--
            (1) full payment for the coin;
            (2) security satisfactory to the Secretary to indemnify the 
        United States for full payment; or
            (3) a guarantee of full payment satisfactory to the 
        Secretary from a depository institution whose deposits are 
        insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or the 
        National Credit Union Administration Board.

                       TITLE II--NATIONAL LAW EN-
                     FORCEMENT  OFFICERS  MEMORIAL 
                           MAINTENANCE   FUND

<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 201. NATIONAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS 
            MEMORIAL MAINTENANCE FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established the National Law 
        Enforcement Officers Memorial Maintenance Fund, which shall be a 
        revolving fund administered by the Secretary of the Interior (or 
        the designee of the Secretary of the Interior).
            (2) Funding.--Amounts in the Fund shall include--
                    (A) amounts deposited in the Fund under section 
                101(6); and
                    (B) any donations received under paragraph (3).
            (3) Donations.--The Secretary of the Interior may accept 
        donations to the Fund.
            (4) Interest-bearing account.--The Fund shall be maintained 
        in an interest-bearing account within the Treasury of the United 
        States.

    (b) Purposes.--The Fund shall be used--
            (1) for the maintenance and repair of the National Law 
        Enforcement Officers Memorial in Washington, D.C.;
            (2) to periodically add the names of law enforcement 
        officers who have died in the line of duty to the National Law 
        Enforcement Officers Memorial;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4012]]

            (3) for the security of the National Law Enforcement 
        Officers Memorial site, including the posting of National Park 
        Service rangers and United States Park Police, as appropriate;
            (4) at the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior and 
        in consultation with the Secretary and the Attorney General of 
        the United States, who shall establish an equitable procedure 
        between the Fund and such other organizations as may be 
        appropriate, to provide educational scholarships to the 
        immediate family members of law enforcement officers killed in 
        the line of duty whose names appear on the National Law 
        Enforcement Officers Memorial, the total annual amount of such 
        scholarships not to exceed 10 percent of the annual income of 
        the Fund;
            (5) for the dissemination of information regarding the 
        National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial to the general 
        public;
            (6) to administer the Fund, including contracting for 
        necessary services, in an amount not to exceed the lesser of--
                    (A) 10 percent of the annual income of the 
                Fund; or
                    (B) $200,000 during any 1-year period; and
            (7) at the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior, in 
        consultation with the Fund, for appropriate purposes in the 
        event of an emergency affecting the operation of the National 
        Law Enforcement Officers Memorial, except that, during any 1-
        year period, not more than $200,000 of the principal of the Fund 
        may be used to carry out this paragraph.

    (c) Budget and Audit Treatment.--The Fund shall be subject to the 
budget and audit provisions of chapter 91 of title 31, United States 
Code.

<<NOTE: 50 States Commemorative Coin Program Act.>> TITLE III--STUDY OF 
FIFTY STATES COMMEMORATIVE COIN PROGRAM

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5101 note.>> SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``50 States Commemorative Coin 
Program Act''.

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5112 note.>> SEC. 302. STUDY.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall by June 1, 1997 
complete a study of the feasibility of a circulating commemorative coin 
program to commemorate each of the 50 States. The study shall assess 
likely public acceptance of and consumer demand for different coins that 
might be issued in connection with such a program (taking into 
consideration the pace of issuance of coins and the length of such a 
program), a comparison of the costs of producing coins issued under the 
program and the revenue that the program would generate, the impact on 
coin distribution 
systems, the advantages and disadvantages of different approaches to 
selecting designs for coins in such a program, and such other factors as 
the Secretary considers appropriate in deciding upon the feasibility of 
such a program. No steps taken in order to gather information for this 
study shall be considered a collection of information within the meaning 
of section 3502 of title 44, United States Code.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4013]]

    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit the study required in 
subsection (a) above, to the Committee on Banking and Financial Services 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs of the Senate, simultaneously on its receipt by the 
Secretary.
    (c) 50-State Commemorative Coin Program.--The Secretary shall 
determine by August 1, 1997 whether the results of the study authorized 
by subsection (a) justify such a program. If the Secretary determines 
that such a program is justified, then he shall by January 1, 1999, 
notwithstanding the fourth sentence of subsection (d)(1) and subsection 
(d)(2) of section 5112, title 31, United States Code, commence a 
commemorative coin program consisting of the minting and issuance of 
quarter dollar coins bearing designs, selected in accordance with 
paragraph (4) of this subsection, which are emblematic of the 50 
States. <<NOTE: Notification.>> If the Secretary determines that such a 
commemorative coin program is justified but that it is not practicable 
to commence the program by January 1, 1999, then he shall notify the 
Committee on Banking and 
Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate of such 
impracticability and of the date on which the program will commence.
            (1) Design.--The design for each quarter dollar issued under 
        the program shall be emblematic of 1 of the 50 States. The 
        designs for quarter dollar coins issued during each year of the 
        program shall be emblematic of States which have not previously 
        been commemorated under the program.
            (2) Order of issuance.--Each State will be honored by a coin 
        in the order of that State's admission to the United States.
            (3) Number of coins.--Of the quarter dollar coins issued 
        during each year of the program, the Secretary shall prescribe, 
        on the basis of such factors as the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate, the number of quarter dollar coins which shall be 
        issued with each of the designs selected for such year.
            (4) Selection of design.--Each of the 50 designs required 
        for quarter dollars issued under the program shall be--
                    (A) selected pursuant to a process, decided upon by 
                the Secretary, on the basis of the study conducted 
                pursuant to subsection (a), which process shall involve, 
                among other things, consultation with appropriate 
                officials of the State being commemorated with such 
                design; and
                    (B) reviewed by the Citizens Commemorative Coin 
                Advisory Committee and the Commission of Fine Arts.
            (5) Treatment as numismatic items.--For purposes of sections 
        5134 and 5136 of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted 
        under this section shall be considered to be numismatic items.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4014]]

            (6) Numismatic items.--
                    (A) Quality of coins.--The Secretary may mint and 
                issue such number of quarter dollars of each design 
                selected under paragraph (4) of this subsection in 
                uncirculated and proof qualities as the Secretary 
                determines to be appropriate.
                    (B) Silver coins.--Notwithstanding the provisions of 
                subsection 5112(b) of title 31, United States Code, the 
                Secretary may mint and issue such number of quarter 
                dollars of each design selected under paragraph (4) of 
                this subsection as the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate with a content of 90 percent silver and 10 
                percent copper.
                    (C) Sources of bullion.--The Secretary may obtain 
                silver for minting coins under paragraph (6)(B) from 
                stockpiles established under the Strategic and Critical 
                Materials Stock Piling Act.

    (d) Funding.--Funds used to complete this study shall be offset from 
funds from the Department of the Treasury.

SEC. 303. FIXED TERMS FOR MEMBERS OF THE CITIZENS 
            COMMEMORATIVE  COIN  ADVISORY  COMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--Section 5135(a)(4) of title 31, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each individual appointed to the 
                Advisory Committee under clause (i) or (iii) of 
                paragraph (3)(A) shall be appointed for a term of 4 
                years.
                    ``(B) Interim appointments.--Any member appointed to 
                fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the 
                term for which such member's predecessor was appointed 
                shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term.
                    ``(C) Continuation of service.--Each member 
                appointed under clause (i) or (iii) of paragraph (3)(A) 
                may continue to serve after the expiration of the term 
                to which such member was appointed until a successor has 
                been appointed and qualified.''.

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5135 note.>>     (b) Staggered Terms.--Of the members 
appointed to the 
Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee under clause (i) or (iii) 
of section 5135(a)(3)(A) of title 31, United States Code, who are 
serving on the Advisory Committee as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act--
            (1) 1 member appointed under clause (i) and 1 member 
        appointed under clause (iii), as designated by the Secretary, 
        shall be deemed to have been appointed to a term which ends on 
        December 31, 1997;
            (2) 1 member appointed under clause (i) and 1 member 
        appointed under clause (iii), as designated by the Secretary, 
        shall be deemed to have been appointed to a term which ends on 
        December 31, 1998; and
            (3) 1 member appointed under clause (i) and 1 member 
        appointed under clause (iii), as designated by the Secretary, 
        shall be deemed to have been appointed to a term which ends on 
        December 31, 1999.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4015]]

<<NOTE: 31 USC 5135 note.>>     (c) Status of Members.--The members 
appointed to the 
Citizens Commemorative Coin Advisory Committee under clause (i) or (iii) 
of section 5135(a)(3)(A) of title 31, United States Code, shall not be 
treated as special Government employees.

SEC. 304. MINT MANAGERIAL STAFFING REFORM.

    Section 5131 of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (c); and
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).

    Approved October 20, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1776:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

            Sept. 17, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 3, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Oct. 4, House concurred in Senate amendments.

                                  <all>