[104th Congress Public Law 42]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ42.104]


[[Page 109 STAT. 353]]

Public Law 104-42
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To amend the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 2, 1995 -  [H.R. 402]>> 

  
    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, 

                TITLE I--ALASKA NATIVE CLAIMS SETTLEMENT

SECTION 101. RATIFICATION OF CERTAIN CASWELL AND MONTANA CREEK NATIVE 
            ASSOCIATIONS CONVEYANCES.

    The conveyance of approximately 11,520 acres to Montana Creek Native 
Association, Inc., and the conveyance of approximately 11,520 acres to 
Caswell Native Association, Inc., by Cook Inlet Region, Inc. in 
fulfillment of the agreement of February 3, 1976, and subsequent letter 
agreement of March 26, 1982, among the 3 parties are hereby adopted and 
ratified as a matter of Federal law. The conveyances shall be deemed to 
be conveyances pursuant to section 14(h)(2) of the Alaska Native Claims 
Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(2)). The group corporations for 
Montana Creek and Caswell are hereby declared to have received their 
full entitlement and shall not be entitled to receive any additional 
lands under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act. The ratification of 
these conveyances shall not have any effect on section 14(h) of the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)) or upon the 
duties and obligations of the United States to any Alaska Native 
Corporation. This ratification shall not be for any claim to land or 
money by the Caswell or Montana Creek group corporations or any other 
Alaska Native Corporation against the State of Alaska, the United 
States, or Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated.

SEC. 102. MINING CLAIMS ON LANDS CONVEYED TO ALASKA REGIONAL 
            CORPORATIONS.

    Section 22(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
1621(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) This section shall apply to lands conveyed by interim 
        conveyance or patent to a regional corporation pursuant to this 
        Act which are made subject to a mining claim or claims located 
        under the general mining laws, including lands conveyed prior to 
        enactment of this paragraph. <<NOTE: Effective date.>> Effective 
        upon the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary, 
        acting through the Bureau of Land Management and in a manner

[[Page 109 STAT. 354]]

        consistent with section 14(g), shall transfer to the regional 
        corporation administration of all mining claims determined to be 
        entirely within lands conveyed to that corporation. Any person 
        holding such mining claim or claims shall meet such requirements 
        of the general mining laws and section 314 of the Federal Land 
        Management and Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1744), except that 
        any filings that would have been made with the Bureau of Land 
        Management if the lands were within Federal ownership shall be 
        timely made with the appropriate regional corporation. The 
        validity of any such mining claim or claims may be contested by 
        the regional corporation, in place of the United States. All 
        contest proceedings and appeals by the mining claimants of 
        adverse decisions made by the regional corporation shall be 
        brought in Federal District Court for the District of Alaska. 
        Neither the United States nor any Federal agency or official 
        shall be named or joined as a party in such proceedings or 
        appeals. All revenues from such mining claims received after 
        passage of this paragraph shall be remitted to the regional 
        corporation subject to distribution pursuant to section 7(i) of 
        this Act, except that in the event that the mining claim or 
        claims are not totally within the lands conveyed to the regional 
        corporation, the regional corporation shall be entitled only to 
        that proportion of revenues, other than administrative fees, 
        reasonably allocated to the portion of the mining claim so 
        conveyed.''.

SEC. 103. SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS ARISING FROM HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE 
            CONTAMINATION OF TRANSFERRED LANDS.

    The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

        ``claims arising from contamination of transferred lands

    ``Sec. 40. <<NOTE: 43 USC 1629f.>>  (a) As used in this section the 
term `contaminant' means hazardous substance harmful to public health or 
the environment, including friable asbestos.

    ``(b) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Within 18 months of enactment of this 
section, and after consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, State 
of Alaska, and appropriate Alaska Native Corporations and organizations, 
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate, a report addressing issues presented by the presence of 
contaminants on lands conveyed or prioritized for conveyance to such 
corporations pursuant to this Act. Such report shall consist of--
            ``(1) existing information concerning the nature and types 
        of contaminants present on such lands prior to conveyance to 
        Alaska Native Corporations;
            ``(2) existing information identifying to the extent 
        practicable the existence and availability of potentially 
        responsible parties for the removal or remediation of the 
        effects of such contaminants;
            ``(3) identification of existing remedies;
            ``(4) recommendations for any additional legislation that 
        the Secretary concludes is necessary to remedy the problem of 
        contaminants on the lands; and
            ``(5) in addition to the identification of contaminants, 
        identification of structures known to have asbestos present and 
        rec

[[Page 109 STAT. 355]]

        ommendations to inform Native landowners on the containment of 
        asbestos.''.

SEC. 104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE PURPOSES OF 
            IMPLEMENTING REQUIRED RECONVEYANCES.

    Section 14(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
1613(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for the purpose of providing technical assistance to Village 
Corporations established pursuant to this Act in order that they may 
fulfill the reconveyance requirements of section 14(c) of this Act. The 
Secretary may make funds available as grants to ANCSA or nonprofit 
corporations that maintain in-house land planning and management 
capabilities.''.

SEC. 105. NATIVE ALLOTMENTS.

    Section 1431(o) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation 
Act (94 Stat. 2542) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Following the exercise by Arctic Slope Regional 
        Corporation of its option under paragraph (1) to acquire the 
        subsurface estate beneath lands within the National Petroleum 
        Reserve--Alaska selected by Kuukpik Corporation, where such 
        subsurface estate entirely surrounds lands subject to a Native 
        allotment application approved under section 905 of this Act, 
        and the oil and gas in such lands have been reserved to the 
        United States, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, at its further 
        option and subject to the concurrence of Kuukpik Corporation, 
        shall be entitled to receive a conveyance of the reserved oil 
        and gas, including all rights and privileges therein reserved to 
        the United States, in such lands. Upon the receipt of a 
        conveyance of such oil and gas interests, the entitlement of 
        Arctic Slope Regional Corporation to in-lieu subsurface lands 
        under section 12(a)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
        Act (43 U.S.C. 1611(a)(1)) shall be reduced by the amount of 
        acreage determined by the Secretary to be conveyed to Arctic 
        Slope Regional Corporation pursuant to this paragraph.''.

SEC. 106. REPORT CONCERNING OPEN SEASON FOR CERTAIN NATIVE ALASKA 
            VETERANS FOR ALLOTMENTS.

    (a) In General.--No later than 9 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Agriculture, the State of Alaska and appropriate Native 
corporations and organizations, shall submit to the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report which shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following:
            (1) The number of Vietnam era veterans, as defined in 
        section 101 of title 38, United States Code, who were eligible 
        for but did not apply for an allotment of not to exceed 160 
        acres under the Act of May 17, 1906 (chapter 2469, 34 Stat. 
        197), as the Act was in effect before December 18, 1971.
            (2) An assessment of the potential impacts of additional 
        allotments on conservation system units as that term is defined 
        in section 102(4) of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
        Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2375).
            (3) Recommendations for any additional legislation that the 
        Secretary concludes is necessary.

[[Page 109 STAT. 356]]

    (b) Requirement.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall release to 
the Secretary of the Interior information relevant to the report 
required under subsection (a).

SEC. 107. TRANSFER OF WRANGELL INSTITUTE.

    (a) Property Transfer.--In order to effect a recision of the ANCSA 
settlement conveyance to Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated of the 
approximately 134.49 acres and structures located thereon (``property'') 
known as the Wrangell Institute in Wrangell, Alaska, upon certification 
to the Secretary by Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, that the Wrangell 
Institute property has been offered for transfer to the City of 
Wrangell, property bidding credits in an amount of $475,000, together 
with adjustments from January 1, 1976 made pursuant to the methodology 
used to establish the Remaining Obligation Entitlement in the Memorandum 
of Understanding Between the United States Department of the Interior 
and Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated dated April 11, 1986, shall be 
restored to the Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, property account in the 
Treasury established under section 12(b) of the Act of January 2, 1976 
(Public Law 94-204, 43 U.S.C. 1611 note), as amended, referred to in 
such section as the ``Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, property 
account''. Acceptance by the City of Wrangell, Alaska of the property 
shall constitute a waiver by the City of Wrangell of any claims for the 
costs of remediation related to asbestos, whether in the nature of 
participation or reimbursement, against the United States or Cook Inlet 
Region, Incorporated. The acceptance of the property bidding credits by 
Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, Alaska of the property shall constitute 
a waiver by Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated of any claims for the costs 
of remediation related to asbestos, whether in the nature of 
participation or reimbursement, against the United States. In no event 
shall the United States be required to take title to the property. Such 
restored property bidding credits may be used in the same manner as any 
other portion of the account.
    (b) Hold Harmless.--Upon acceptance of the property bidding credits 
by Cook Inlet Region, Inc., the United States shall defend and hold 
harmless Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated, and its subsidiaries in any 
and all claims arising from asbestos or any contamination existing at 
the Wrangell Institute property at the time of transfer of ownership of 
the property from the United States to Cook Inlet Region, Incorporated.

SEC. 108. SHISHMAREF AIRPORT AMENDMENT.

    The Shishmaref Airport, conveyed to the State of Alaska on January 
5, 1967, in Patent No. 1240529, is subject to reversion to the United 
States, pursuant to the terms of that patent for nonuse as an airport. 
The Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration is hereby 
directed to exercise said reverter in Patent No. 1240529 in favor of the 
United States within twelve months of the date of enactment of this 
section. Upon revesting of title, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the United States shall immediately thereafter transfer all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in the subject lands to the 
Shishmaref Native Corporation. Nothing in this section shall relieve the 
State, the United States, or any other potentially responsible party of 
liability, if any, under existing law for the cleanup of hazardous or 
solid wastes on the property, nor shall the United States or Shishmaref 
Native Corporation become liable for the cleanup of the property solely

[[Page 109 STAT. 357]]

by virtue of acquiring title from the State of Alaska or from the United 
States.

SEC. 109. DEFINITION OF REVENUES.

    (a) Section 7(i) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, Public 
Law 92-203 (43 U.S.C. 1606(i)), is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(i)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term `revenues' 
        does not include any benefit received or realized for the use of 
        losses incurred or credits earned by a Regional Corporation.''.

    (b) <<NOTE: Effective date.>>  This amendment shall be effective as 
of the date of enactment of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 
Public Law 92-203 (43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.).

   TITLE II--HAWAIIAN HOME LANDS <<NOTE: Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery 
Act. 48 USC note prec. 491.>> 

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE

    This title may be cited as the ``Hawaiian Home Lands Recovery Act''.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Agency.--The term ``agency'' includes--
                    (A) any instrumentality of the United States;
                    (B) any element of an agency; and
                    (C) any wholly owned or mixed-owned corporation of 
                the United States Government.
            (2) Beneficiary.--The term ``beneficiary'' has the same 
        meaning as is given the term ``native Hawaiian'' under section 
        201(7) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.
            (3) Chairman.--The term ``Chairman'' means the Chairman of 
        the Hawaiian Homes Commission of the State of Hawaii.
            (4) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Hawaiian 
        Homes Commission established by section 202 of the Hawaiian 
        Homes Commission Act.
            (5) Hawaiian homes commission act.--The term ``Hawaiian 
        Homes Commission Act'' means the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 
        1920 (42 Stat. 108 et. seq., chapter 42).
            (6) Hawaii state admission act.--The term ``Hawaii State 
        Admission Act'' means the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for 
        the admission of the State of Hawaii into the Union'', approved 
        March 18, 1959 (73 Stat. 4, chapter 339; 48 U.S.C. note prec. 
        491).
            (7) Lost use.--The term ``lost use'' means the value of the 
        use of the land during the period when beneficiaries or the 
        Hawaiian Homes Commission have been unable to use lands as 
        authorized by the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act because of the 
        use of such lands by the Federal Government after August 21, 
        1959.
            (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 203. SETTLEMENT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS.

    (a) Determination.--
            (1) The Secretary shall determine the value of the 
        following:

[[Page 109 STAT. 358]]

                    (A) Lands under the control of the Federal 
                Government that--
                          (i) were initially designated as available 
                      lands under section 203 of the Hawaiian Homes 
                      Commission Act (as in effect on the date of 
                      enactment of such Act); and
                          (ii) were nevertheless transferred to or 
                      otherwise acquired by the Federal Government.
                    (B) The lost use of lands described in subparagraph 
                (A).
            (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the 
        determinations of value made under this subsection shall be made 
        not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act. 
        In carrying out this subsection, the Secretary shall use a 
        method of determining value that--
                    (i) is acceptable to the Chairman; and
                    (ii) is in the best interest of the beneficiaries.
            (B) The Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree to 
        extend the deadline for making determinations under this 
        subparagraph beyond the date specified in subparagraph (A).
            (3) The Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree, with 
        respect to the determinations of value described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), to provide--
                    (A) for making any portion of the determinations of 
                value pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (B) for making the remainder of the determinations 
                with respect to which the Secretary and the Chairman do 
                not exercise the option described in subparagraph (A), 
                pursuant to an appraisal conducted under paragraph (4).
            (4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (C), if the 
        Secretary and the Chairman do not agree on the determinations of 
        value made by the Secretary under subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
        paragraph (1), or, pursuant to paragraph (3), mutually agree to 
        determine the value of certain lands pursuant to this 
        subparagraph, such values shall be determined by an appraisal. 
        An appraisal conducted under this subparagraph shall be 
        conducted in accordance with appraisal standards that are 
        mutually agreeable to the Secretary and the Chairman.
            (B) If an appraisal is conducted pursuant to this 
        subparagraph, during the appraisal process--
                    (i) the Chairman shall have the opportunity to 
                present evidence of value to the Secretary;
                    (ii) the Secretary shall provide the Chairman a 
                preliminary copy of the appraisal;
                    (iii) the Chairman shall have a reasonable and 
                sufficient opportunity to comment on the preliminary 
                copy of the appraisal; and
                    (iv) the Secretary shall give consideration to the 
                comments and evidence of value submitted by the Chairman 
                under this subparagraph.
            (C) The Chairman shall have the right to dispute the 
        determinations of values made by an appraisal conducted under 
        this subparagraph. If the Chairman disputes the appraisal, the 
        Secretary and the Chairman may mutually agree to employ a 
        process of bargaining, mediation, or other means of dispute

[[Page 109 STAT. 359]]

        resolution to make the determinations of values described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).

    (b) Authorization.--
            (1) Exchange.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (5), the 
        Secretary may convey Federal lands described in paragraph (5) to 
        the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands in exchange for the 
        continued retention by the Federal Government of lands described 
        in subsection (a)(1)(A).
            (2) Value of lands.--(A) The value of any lands conveyed to 
        the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands by the Federal Government 
        in accordance with an exchange made under paragraph (1) may not 
        be less than the value of the lands retained by the Federal 
        Government pursuant to such exchange.
            (B) For the purposes of this subsection, the value of any 
        lands exchanged pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined as 
        of the date the exchange is carried out, or any other date 
        determined by the Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
        Chairman.
            (3) Lost use.--Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the 
        Secretary may convey Federal lands described in paragraph (5) to 
        the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands as compensation for the 
        lost use of lands determined under subsection (a)(1)(B).
            (4) Value of lost use.--(A) the value of any lands conveyed 
        to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands by the Federal 
        Government as compensation under paragraph (3) may not be less 
        than the value of the lost use of lands determined under 
        subsection (a)(1)(B).
            (B) For the purposes of this subparagraph, the value of any 
        lands conveyed pursuant to paragraph (3) shall be determined as 
        of the date that the conveyance occurs, or any other date 
        determined by the Secretary, with the concurrence of the 
        Chairman.
            (5) Federal lands for exchange.--(A) Subject to 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C), Federal lands located in Hawaii that 
        are under the control of an agency (other than lands within the 
        National Park System or the National Wildlife Refuge System) may 
        be conveyed to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands under 
        paragraphs (1) and (3). To assist the Secretary in carrying out 
        this Act, the head of an agency may transfer to the Department 
        of the Interior, without reimbursement, jurisdiction and control 
        over any lands and any structures that the Secretary determines 
        to be suitable for conveyance to the Department of Hawaiian Home 
        Lands pursuant to an exchange conducted under this section.
            (B) No Federal lands that the Federal Government is required 
        to convey to the State of Hawaii under section 5 of the Hawaii 
        State Admission Act may be conveyed under paragraph (1) or (3).
            (C) No Federal lands that generate income (or would be 
        expected to generate income) for the Federal Government may be 
        conveyed pursuant to an exchange made under this paragraph to 
        the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.

    (c) Available Lands.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        Secretary shall require that lands conveyed to the Department of 
        Hawaiian Home Lands under this Act shall have the status of 
        available lands under the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.

[[Page 109 STAT. 360]]

            (2) Subsequent exchange of lands.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, lands conveyed to the Department of Hawaiian 
        Home Lands under this paragraph may subsequently be exchanged 
        pursuant to section 204(3) of the Hawaiian Home Commission Act.
            (3) Sale of certain lands.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Chairman may, at the time that lands are 
        conveyed to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands as 
        compensation for lost use under this Act, designate lands to be 
        sold. The Chairman is authorized to sell such land under terms 
        and conditions that are in the best interest of the 
        beneficiaries. The proceeds of such a sale may only be used for 
        the purposes described in section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes 
        Commission Act.

    (d) Consultation.--In carrying out their respective responsibilities 
under this section, the Secretary and the Chairman shall--
            (1) consult with the beneficiaries and organizations 
        representing the beneficiaries; and
            (2) report to such organizations on a regular basis 
        concerning the progress made to meet the requirements of this 
        section.

    (e) Hold Harmless.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
United States shall defend and hold harmless the Department of Hawaiian 
Home Lands, the employees of the Department, and the beneficiaries with 
respect to any claim arising from the ownership of any land or structure 
that is conveyed to the Department pursuant to an exchange made under 
this section prior to the conveyance to the Department of such land or 
structure.
    (f) Screening.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  In general.--Notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Administrator of General Services shall, at the same time as 
        notice is provided to Federal agencies that excess real property 
        is being screened pursuant to applicable Federal laws (including 
        regulations) for possible transfer to such agencies, notify the 
        Chairman of any such screening of real property that is located 
        within the State of Hawaii.
            (2) Response to notification.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, not later than 90 days after receiving a 
        notice under paragraph (1), the Chairman may select for 
        appraisal real property, or at the election of the Chairman, 
        portions of real property, that is the subject of a screening.
            (3) Selection.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        with respect to any real property located in the State of Hawaii 
        that, as of the date of enactment of this Act, is being screened 
        pursuant to applicable Federal laws for possible transfer (as 
        described in paragraph (1)) or has been screened for such 
        purpose, but has not been transferred or declared to be surplus 
        real property, the Chairman may select all, or any portion of, 
        such real property to be appraised pursuant to paragraph (4).
            (4) Appraisal.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of General 
        Services shall appriase the real property or portions of real 
        property selected by the Chairman using the Uniform Standards 
        for Federal Land Acquisition developed by the Interagency Land 
        Acquisition Conference, or such other standard as the Chairman 
        agrees to.

[[Page 109 STAT. 361]]

            (5) Request for conveyance.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, not later than 30 days after the date of 
        completion of such appraisal, the Chairman may request the 
        conveyance to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands of--
                    (A) the appraised property; or
                    (B) a portion of the appraised property, to the 
                Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.
            (6) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        upon receipt of a request from the Chairman, the Secretary of 
        Defense or the Administrator of the General Services 
        Administration shall convey, without reimbursement, the real 
        property that is the subject of the request to the Department of 
        Hawaiian Home Lands as compensation for lands identified under 
        subsection (a)(1)(A) or lost use identified under subsection 
        (a)(1)(B).
            (7) Real property not subject to recoupment.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any real property 
        conveyed pursuant to paragraph (6) shall not be subject to 
        recoupment based upon the sale or lease of the land by the 
        Chairman.
            (8) Valuation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary shall reduce the value identified under 
        subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(1), as determined 
        pursuant to such subsection, by an amount equal to the appraised 
        value of any excess lands conveyed pursuant to paragraph (6).
            (9) Limitation.--No Federal lands that generate income (or 
        would be expected to generate income) for the Federal Government 
        may be conveyed pursuant to this subsection to the Department of 
        Hawaiian Home Lands.

SEC. 204. PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO HAWAIIAN HOMES 
            COMMISSION ACT.

    (a) Notice to the Secretary.--Not later than 120 days after a 
proposed amendment to the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act is approved in 
the manner provided in section 4 of the Hawaii State Admission Act, the 
Chairman shall submit to the Secretary--
            (1) a copy of the proposed amendment;
            (2) the nature of the change proposed to be made by the 
        amendment; and
            (3) an opinion regarding whether the proposed amendment 
        requires the approval of Congress under section 4 of the Hawaii 
        State Admission Act.

    (b) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Determination by Secretary.--Not later 
than 60 days after receiving the materials required to be submitted by 
the Chairman pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall determine 
whether the proposed amendment requires the approval of Congress under 
section 4 of the Hawaii State Admission Act, and shall notify the 
Chairman and Congress of the determination of the Secretary.

    (c) Congressional Approval Required.--If, pursuant to subsection 
(b), the Secretary determines that the proposed amendment requires the 
approval of Congress, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on 
Resources of the House of Representatives--
            (1) a draft joint resolution approving the amendment;

[[Page 109 STAT. 362]]

            (2) a description of the change made by the proposed 
        amendment and an explanation of how the amendment advances the 
        interests of the beneficiaries;
            (3) a comparison of the existing law (as of the date of 
        submission of the proposed amendment) that is the subject of the 
        amendment with the proposed amendment;
            (4) a recommendation concerning the advisability of 
        approving the proposed amendment; and
            (5) any documentation concerning the amendments received 
        from the Chairman.

SEC. 205. LAND EXCHANGES.

    (a) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  Notice to the Secretary.--If the Chairman 
recommends for approval an exchange of Hawaiian Home Lands, the Chairman 
shall submit a report to the Secretary on the proposed exchange. The 
report shall contain--
            (1) a description of the acreage and fair market value of 
        the lands involved in the exchange;
            (2) surveys and appraisals prepared by the Department of 
        Hawaiian Home Lands, if any; and
            (3) an identification of the benefits to the parties of the 
        proposed exchange.

    (b) Approval or Disapproval.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after receiving the 
        information required to be submitted by the Chairman pursuant to 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the 
        proposed exchange.
            (2) Notification.--The Secretary shall notify the Chairman, 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and 
        the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives of 
        the reasons for the approval or disapproval of the proposed 
        exchange.

    (c) Exchanges Initiated by Secretary.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  In general.--The Secretary may 
        recommend to the Chairman an exchange of Hawaiian Home Lands for 
        Federal lands described in section 203(b)(5), other than lands 
        described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) of such section. If the 
        Secretary initiates a recommendation for such an exchange, the 
        Secretary shall submit a report to the Chairman on the proposed 
        exchange that meets the requirements of a report described in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) <<NOTE: Notification.>>  Approval by chairman.--Not 
        later than 120 days after receiving a recommendation for an 
        exchange from the Secretary under paragraph (1), the Chairman 
        shall provide written notification to the Secretary of the 
        approval or disapproval of a proposed exchange. If the Chairman 
        approves the proposed exchange, upon receipt of the written 
        notification, the Secretary shall notify the Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives of the approval of the 
        Chairman of the proposed exchange.
            (3) Exchange.--Upon providing notification pursuant to 
        paragraph (2) of a proposed exchange that has been approved by 
        the Chairman pursuant to this section, the Secretary may carry 
        out the exchange.

    (d) Selection and Exchange.--

[[Page 109 STAT. 363]]

            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary may--
                    (A) select real property that is the subject of 
                screening activities conducted by the Secretary of 
                Defense or the Administrator of General Services 
                pursuant to applicable Federal laws (including 
                regulations) for possible transfer to Federal agencies; 
                and
                    (B) make recommendations to the Chairman concerning 
                making an exchange under subsection (c) that includes 
                such real property.
            (2) Transfer.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        if the Chairman approves an exchange proposed by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of 
                General Services shall transfer the real property 
                described in paragraph (1)(A) that is the subject of the 
                exchange to the Secretary without reimbursement; and
                    (B) the Secretary shall carry out the exchange.
            (3) Limitation.--No Federal lands that generate income (or 
        would be expected to generate income) for the Federal Government 
        may be conveyed pursuant to this subsection to the Department of 
        Hawaiian Home Lands.

    (e) Surveys and Appraisals.--
            (1) Requirement.--The Secretary shall conduct a survey of 
        all Hawaiian Home Lands based on the report entitled ``Survey 
        Needs for the Hawaiian Home Lands'', issued by the Bureau of 
        Land Management of the Department of the Interior, and dated 
        July 1991.
            (2) Other surveys.--The Secretary is authorized to conduct 
        such other surveys and appraisals as may be necessary to make an 
        informed decision regarding approval or disapproval of a 
        proposed exchange.

SEC. 206. ADMINISTRATION OF ACTS BY UNITED STATES.

    (a) Designation.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall designate an 
        individual from within the Department of the Interior to 
        administer the responsibilities of the United States under this 
        title and the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act.
            (2) Default.--If the Secretary fails to make an appointment 
        by the date specified in paragraph (1), or if the position is 
        vacant at any time thereafter, the Assistant Secretary for 
        Policy, Budget, and Administration of the Department of the 
        Interior shall exercise the responsibilities for the Department 
        in accordance with subsection (b).

    (b) Responsibilities.--The individual designated pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall, in administering the laws referred to in such 
subsection--
            (1) advance the interests of the beneficiaries; and
            (2) assist the beneficiaries and the Department of Hawaiian 
        Home Lands in obtaining assistance from programs of the 
        Department of the Interior and other Federal agencies that will 
        promote homesteading opportunities, economic self-sufficiency, 
        and social well-being of the beneficiaries.

[[Page 109 STAT. 364]]

SEC. 207. ADJUSTMENT.

    The Act of July 1, 1932 (47 Stat. 564, chapter 369; 25 U.S.C. 386a) 
is amended by striking the period at the end and adding the following: 
``: Provided further, That the Secretary shall adjust or eliminate 
charges, defer collection of construction costs, and make no assessment 
on behalf of such charges for beneficiaries that hold leases on Hawaiian 
home lands, to the same extent as is permitted for individual Indians or 
tribes of Indians under this section.''.

SEC. 208. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Chairman shall report to the Secretary concerning any 
claims that--
            (1) involve the transfer of lands designated as available 
        lands under section 203 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act (as 
        in effect on the date of enactment of such Act); and
            (2) are not otherwise covered under this title.

    (b) Review.--Not later than 180 days after receiving the report 
submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall make a determination 
with respect to each claim referred to in subsection (a), whether, on 
the basis of legal and equitable considerations, compensation should be 
granted to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands.
    (c) Compensation.--If the Secretary makes a determination under 
subsection (b) that compensation should be granted to the Department of 
Hawaiian Home Lands, the Secretary shall determine the value of the 
lands and lost use in accordance with the process established under 
section 203(a), and increase the determination of value made under 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 203(a)(1) by the value determined 
under this subsection.

SEC. 209. AUTHORIZATION.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary for compensation to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands for 
the value of the lost use of lands determined under section 203. 
Compensation received by the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands from 
funds made available pursuant to this section may only be used for the 
purposes described in section 207(a) of the Hawaiian Homes Commission 
Act. To the extent

[[Page 109 STAT. 365]]

 that amounts are made available by appropriations pursuant to this 
section for compensation paid to the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands 
for lost use, the Secretary shall reduce the determination of value 
established under section 203(a)(1)(B) by such amount.

    Approved November 2, 1995.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 402:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-73 (Comm. on Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 104-119 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 141 (1995):
            Mar. 14, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 3, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Sept. 18, 19, House considered and concurred in Senate 
                amendment.

                                  <all>