[104th Congress Public Law 333]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ333.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 4093]]

Public Law 104-333
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
  To provide for the administration of certain Presidio properties at 
  minimal cost to <<NOTE: Nov. 12, 1996 -  [H.R. 4236]>>  the Federal 
                    taxpayer, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,  <<NOTE: Omnibus Parks 
and Public Lands Management Act of 1996. 16 USC 1 note.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Omnibus Parks and Public Lands 
Management Act of 1996''.

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.

                               DIVISION I

                 TITLE I--THE PRESIDIO OF SAN FRANCISCO

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Authority and responsibility of the Secretary of the Interior.
Sec. 103. Establishment of the Presidio Trust.
Sec. 104. Duties and authorities of the Trust.
Sec. 105. Limitations on funding.
Sec. 106. General Accounting Office study.

             TITLE II--BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND CONVEYANCES

Sec. 201. Yucca House National Monument boundary adjustment.
Sec. 202. Zion National Park boundary adjustment.
Sec. 203. Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore boundary adjustment.
Sec. 204. Independence National Historical Park boundary adjustment.
Sec. 205. Craters of the Moon National Monument boundary adjustment.
Sec. 206. Hagerman Fossil Beds National Monument boundary adjustment.
Sec. 207. Wupatki National Monument boundary adjustment.
Sec. 208. Walnut Canyon National Monument boundary modification.
Sec. 209. Butte County, California land conveyance.
Sec. 210. Taos Pueblo land transfer.
Sec. 211. Colonial National Historical Park.
Sec. 212. Cuprum, Idaho relief.
Sec. 213. Relinquishment of interest.
Sec. 214. Modoc National Forest.
Sec. 215. Conveyance to City of Sumpter, Oregon.
Sec. 216. Cumberland Gap National Historical Park.
Sec. 217. Alpine School District.
Sec. 218. Merced Irrigation District land exchange.
Sec. 219. Father Aull site transfer.
Sec. 220. Coastal Barrier Resources System.
Sec. 221. Conveyance to Del Norte County Unified School District.

                          TITLE III--EXCHANGES

Sec. 301. Targhee National Forest land exchange.
Sec. 302. Anaktuvuk Pass land exchange.
Sec. 303. Alaska Peninsula subsurface consolidation.
Sec. 304. Snowbasin Land Exchange Act.
Sec. 305. Arkansas and Oklahoma land exchange.
Sec. 306. Big Thicket National Preserve.
Sec. 307. Lost Creek land exchange.
Sec. 308. Cleveland National Forest land exchange.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4094]]

Sec. 309. Sand Hollow land exchange.
Sec. 310. Bureau of Land Management authorization for fiscal years 1997 
           through 2002.
Sec. 311. Kenai Natives Association land exchange.

                       TITLE IV--RIVERS AND TRAILS

Sec. 401. Rio Puerco watershed.
Sec. 402. Old Spanish Trail.
Sec. 403. Great Western Scenic Trail.
Sec. 404. Hanford Reach Preservation.
Sec. 405. Lamprey Wild and Scenic River.
Sec. 406. West Virginia National Rivers Amendments of 1996.
Sec. 407. Technical amendment to the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act.
Sec. 408. Protection of North St. Vrain Creek, Colorado.

                TITLE V--HISTORIC AREAS AND CIVIL RIGHTS

Sec. 501. The Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail.
Sec. 502. Vancouver National Historic Reserve.
Sec. 503. Extension of Kaloko-Honokohau Advisory Commission.
Sec. 504. Amendment to Boston National Historic Park Act.
Sec. 505. Women's Rights National Historic Park.
Sec. 506. Black Patriots Memorial Extention.
Sec. 507. Historically black colleges and universities historic building 
           restoration and preservation.
Sec. 508. Memorial to Martin Luther King, Jr.
Sec. 509. Advisory Council on Historic Preservation reauthorization.
Sec. 510. Great Falls Historic District, New Jersey.
Sec. 511. New Bedford National Historic Landmark District.
Sec. 512. Nicodemus National Historic Site.
Sec. 513. Unalaska.
Sec. 514. Japanese American Patriotism Memorial.
Sec. 515. Manzanar National Historic Site.
Sec. 516. Recognition and designation of the AIDS Memorial Grove as 
           national 
           memorial.

               TITLE VI--CIVIL AND REVOLUTIONARY WAR SITES

Sec. 601. United States Civil War Center.
Sec. 602. Corinth, Mississippi, Battlefield Act.
Sec. 603. Revolutionary War and War of 1812 Historic Preservation Study.
Sec. 604. American battlefield protection program.
Sec. 605. Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Parks.
Sec. 606. Shenandoah Valley battlefields.
Sec. 607. Washita Battlefield.

                             TITLE VII--FEES

Sec. 701. Ski area permit rental charge.
Sec. 702. Delaware Water Gap.
Sec. 703. Glacier Bay National Park.

   TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS

Sec. 801. Limitation on park buildings.
Sec. 802. Appropriations for transportation of children.
Sec. 803. Feral burros and horses.
Sec. 804. Authorities of the Secretary of the Interior relating to 
           museums.
Sec. 805. Volunteers in parks increase.
Sec. 806. Carl Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day.
Sec. 807. Fort Pulaski National Monument, Georgia.
Sec. 808. Laura C. Hudson Visitor Center.
Sec. 809. Robert J. Lagomarsino Visitor Center.
Sec. 810. Expenditure of funds outside authorized boundary of Rocky 
           Mountain 
           National Park.
Sec. 811. Dayton aviation.
Sec. 812. Prohibition on certain transfers of national forest lands.
Sec. 813. Grand Lake Cemetery.
Sec. 814. National Park Service administrative reform.
Sec. 815. William B. Smullin Visitor Center.
Sec. 816. Calumet Ecological Park.
Sec. 817. Acquisition of certain property on Santa Cruz Island.
Sec. 818. National Park Agreements.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4095]]

                        TITLE IX--HERITAGE AREAS

Sec. 901. Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor.
Sec. 902. Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor.

                         TITLE X--MISCELLANEOUS

             Subtitle A--Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve

Sec. 1001. Short title.
Sec. 1002. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 1003. Definitions.
Sec. 1004. Establishment of Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve.
Sec. 1005. Administration of National Preserve.
Sec. 1006. Limited authority to acquire.
Sec. 1007. Advisory Committee.
Sec. 1008. Restriction on authority.
Sec. 1009. Authorization of appropriations.

                       Subtitle B--Sterling Forest

Sec. 1011. Palisades Interstate Park Commission.

                    Subtitle C--Additional Provisions

Sec. 1021. Recreation lakes.
Sec. 1022. Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness expansion and fossil forest 
           protection.
Sec. 1023. Opal Creek Wilderness and Scenic Recreation Area.
Sec. 1024. Upper Klamath Basin ecological restoration projects.
Sec. 1025. Deschutes Basin ecosystem restoration projects.
Sec. 1026. Bull Run protection.
Sec. 1027. Oregon Islands Wilderness, additions.
Sec. 1028. Umpqua River land exchange study: policy and direction.
Sec. 1029. Boston Harbor Islands Recreation Area.
Sec. 1030. Natchez National Historical Park.
Sec. 1031. Substitution of timber for canceled timber sale.
Sec. 1032. Rural electric and telephone facilities.
Sec. 1033. Federal borough recognition.
Sec. 1034. Extension of statute of limitations.
Sec. 1035. Regulation of fishing in certain waters of Alaska.
Sec. 1036. Credit for reconveyance.
Sec. 1037. Radio site report.

        TITLE XI--CALIFORNIA BAY DELTA ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT

Sec. 1101. Program funding.

                               DIVISION II

                  TITLE I--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Findings.
Sec. 103. Establishment.
Sec. 104. Contractual agreement.
Sec. 105. Eligible resources.
Sec. 106. Coal heritage management plan.
Sec. 107. Sunset.
Sec. 108. Authorization of appropriations.

               TITLE II--TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 201. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area.
Sec. 204. Compact.
Sec. 205. Management.
Sec. 206. Duties and authorities of Secretary.
Sec. 207. Savings provisions.
Sec. 208. Sunset.
Sec. 209. Authorization of appropriations.

             TITLE III--AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Purpose.
Sec. 303. Designation of Augusta Canal National Heritage Area.
Sec. 304. Management.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4096]]

Sec. 305. Management plan.
Sec. 306. Grants and technical assistance.
Sec. 307. Acquisition of real property.
Sec. 308. Occupational, safety, conservation, and environmental 
           regulation.
Sec. 309. Land use regulation.
Sec. 310. Sunset.
Sec. 311. Authorization of appropriations.

                TITLE IV--STEEL INDUSTRY HERITAGE PROJECT

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 403. Steel Industry American Heritage Area.
Sec. 404. Compact.
Sec. 405. Management plan.
Sec. 406. Authorities and duties of management entity.
Sec. 407. Duties and authorities of Federal agencies.
Sec. 408. Sunset.
Sec. 409. Authorization of appropriations.

                  TITLE V--ESSEX NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 501. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 502. Definitions.
Sec. 503. Designation of National Heritage Area.
Sec. 504. Management entity.
Sec. 505. Duties of the Secretary.
Sec. 506. Private property.
Sec. 507. Sunset.
Sec. 508. Authorization of appropriations.

           TITLE VI--SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 603. Definitions.
Sec. 604. South Carolina National Heritage Corridor.
Sec. 605. Management entity.
Sec. 606. Duties of the Secretary.
Sec. 607. Sunset.
Sec. 608. Authorization of appropriations.

         TITLE VII--AMERICA'S AGRICULTURAL HERITAGE PARTNERSHIP

Sec. 701. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 702. Definitions.
Sec. 703. Establishment of the America's Agricultural Heritage 
           Partnership.
Sec. 704. Establishment of the America's Agricutural Heritage 
           Partnership 
           management entity.
Sec. 705. Partnership management plan.
Sec. 706. Land use regulation and private property protection.
Sec. 707. Sunset.
Sec. 708. Authorization of appropriations.

        TITLE VIII--OHIO & ERIE CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 803. Definitions.
Sec. 804. Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor.
Sec. 805. The Ohio & Erie National Canal Heritage Corridor Committee.
Sec. 806. Powers and duties of the National Heritage Corridor Committee.
Sec. 807. Management entity.
Sec. 808. Duties of the management entity.
Sec. 809. Duties and authorities of Federal agencies.
Sec. 810. Lack of effect on land use regulation and private property.
Sec. 811. Sunset.
Sec. 812. Authorization of appropriations.

          TITLE IX--HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

Sec. 901. Short title.
Sec. 902. Findings.
Sec. 903. Purposes.
Sec. 904. Hudson River Valley American Heritage Area.
Sec. 905. Compact.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4097]]

Sec. 906. Management plan.
Sec. 907. Authorities and duties of management entities.
Sec. 908. Duties and authorities of Federal agencies.
Sec. 909. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 910. Sunset.

                               DIVISION I

                 TITLE I--THE PRESIDIO OF SAN FRANCISCO

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) the Presidio, located amidst the incomparable scenic 
        splendor of the Golden Gate, is one of America's great natural 
        and historic sites;
            (2) the Presidio is the oldest continuously operated 
        military post in the Nation dating from 1776, and was designated 
        a National Historic Landmark in 1962;
            (3) preservation of the cultural and historic integrity of 
        the Presidio for public use recognizes its significant role in 
        the history of the United States;
            (4) the Presidio, in its entirety, is a part of the Golden 
        Gate National Recreation Area, in accordance with Public Law 92-
        589;
            (5) as part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, the 
        Presidio's significant natural, historic, scenic, cultural, and 
        recreational resources must be managed in a manner which is 
        consistent with sound principles of land use planning and 
        management, and which protects the Presidio from development and 
        uses which would destroy the scenic beauty and historic and 
        natural character of the area and cultural and recreational 
        resources;
            (6) removal and/or replacement of some structures within the 
        Presidio must be considered as a management option in the 
        administration of the Presidio; and
            (7) the Presidio will be managed through an innovative 
        public/private partnership that minimizes cost to the United 
        States Treasury and makes efficient use of private sector 
        resources.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 102. AUTHORITY AND 
                        RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SECRETARY OF THE 
                        INTERIOR.

    (a) Interim Authority.--The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
in this title referred to as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to manage 
leases in existence on the date of this Act for properties under the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary and located at the 
Presidio. Upon the expiration of any such lease, the Secretary may 
extend such lease for a period terminating not later than 6 months after 
the first meeting of the Presidio Trust. The Secretary may not enter 
into any new leases for property at the Presidio to be transferred to 
the Presidio Trust under this title, however, the Secretary is 
authorized to enter into agreements for use and occupancy of the 
Presidio properties which are assignable to the Trust and are terminable 
with 30 days notice. Prior to the transfer of administrative 
jurisdiction over any property to the Presidio Trust, and 
notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the United

[[Page 110 STAT. 4098]]

States Code, the proceeds from any such lease shall be retained by the 
Secretary and such proceeds shall be available, without further 
appropriation, for the preservation, restoration, operation and 
maintenance, improvement, repair and related expenses incurred with 
respect to Presidio properties. The Secretary may adjust the rental 
charge on any such lease for any amounts to be expended by the lessee 
for preservation, maintenance, restoration, improvement, repair and 
related expenses with respect to properties and infrastructure within 
the Presidio.
    (b) Public Information and Interpretation.--The Secretary shall be 
responsible, in cooperation with the Presidio Trust, for providing 
public interpretive services, visitor orientation and educational 
programs on all lands within the Presidio.
    (c) Other.--Those lands and facilities within the Presidio that are 
not transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Presidio Trust 
shall continue to be managed by the Secretary. The Secretary and the 
Presidio Trust shall cooperate to ensure adequate public access to all 
portions of the Presidio. Any infrastructure and building improvement 
projects that were funded prior to the enactment of this Act shall be 
completed by the National Park Service.
    (d) Park Service Employees.--(1) Any career employee of the National 
Park Service, employed at the Presidio at the time of the transfer of 
lands and facilities to the Presidio Trust, shall not be separated from 
the Service by reason of such transfer, unless such employee is employed 
by the Trust, other than on detail. Notwithstanding section 3503 of 
title 5, United States Code, the Trust shall have sole discretion over 
whether to hire any such employee or request a detail of such employee.
    (2) Any career employee of the National Park Service employed at the 
Presidio on the date of enactment of this title shall be given priority 
placement for any available position within the National Park System 
notwithstanding any priority reemployment lists, directives, rules, 
regulations or other orders from the Department of the Interior, the 
Office of Management and Budget, or other Federal agencies.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PRESIDIO 
            TRUST.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a wholly owned government 
corporation to be known as the Presidio Trust (hereinafter in this title 
referred to as the ``Trust'').

    (b) Transfer.--(1) Within 60 days after receipt of a request from 
the Trust for the transfer of any parcel within the area depicted as 
Area B on the map entitled ``Presidio Trust Number 1'', dated December 
7, 1995, the Secretary shall transfer such parcel to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Trust. Within 1 year after the first meeting of the 
Board of Directors of the Trust, the 
Secretary shall transfer to the Trust administrative jurisdiction over 
all remaining parcels within Area B. Such map shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the offices of the Trust and in the 
offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The 
Trust and the Secretary may jointly make technical and clerical 
revisions in the boundary depicted on such map. The Secretary shall 
retain jurisdiction over those portions of the building identified as 
number 102 as the Secretary deems essential for use as a visitor 
center. <<NOTE: Federal buildings and facilities.>>  The Building shall 
be named the ``William Penn Mott Visitor Center''. Any parcel of land, 
the jurisdiction over which is transferred pursuant to this subsection, 
shall remain

[[Page 110 STAT. 4099]]

within the boundary of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. With 
the consent of the Secretary, the Trust may at any time transfer to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary any other properties within 
the Presidio which are surplus to the needs of the Trust and which serve 
essential purposes of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area. The 
Trust is encouraged to transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of 
the Secretary open space areas which have high public use potential and 
are contiguous to other lands administrated by the Secretary.

    (2) Within 60 days after the first meeting of the Board of Directors 
of the Trust, the Trust and the Secretary shall determine cooperatively 
which records, equipment, and other personal property are deemed to be 
necessary for the immediate administration of the properties to be 
transferred, and the Secretary shall immediately transfer such personal 
property to the Trust. Within 1 year after the first meeting of the 
Board of Directors of the Trust, the Trust and the Secretary shall 
determine cooperatively what, if any, additional records, equipment, and 
other personal property used by the Secretary in the administration of 
the properties to be transferred should be transferred to the Trust.
    (3) The Secretary shall transfer, with the transfer of 
administrative jurisdiction over any property, the unobligated balance 
of all funds appropriated to the Secretary, all leases, concessions, 
licenses, permits, and other agreements affecting such property.
    (4) At the request of the Trust, the Secretary shall provide funds 
to the Trust for preparation of the program required under section 
104(c) of this title, hiring of initial staff and other activities 
deemed by the Trust as essential to the establishment of the Trust prior 
to the transfer of properties to the Trust.
    (c) Board of Directors.--
            (1) In general.--The powers and management of the Trust 
        shall be vested in a Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to 
        as the ``Board'') consisting of the following 7 members:
                    (A) The Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary's 
                designee.
                    (B) <<NOTE: President.>>  6 individuals, who are not 
                employees of the Federal Government, appointed by the 
                President, who shall possess extensive knowledge and 
                experience in one or more of the fields of city 
                planning, finance, real estate development, and resource 
                conservation. At least one of these individuals shall be 
                a veteran of the Armed Services. At least 3 of these 
                individuals shall reside in the San Francisco Bay Area. 
                The President shall make the appointments referred to in 
                this subparagraph within 90 days after the enactment of 
                this Act and shall ensure that the fields of city 
                planning, finance, real estate development, and resource 
                conservation are adequately represented. Upon 
                establishment of the Trust, the Chairman of the Board of 
                Directors of the Trust shall meet with the Chairman of 
                the Energy and Natural Resources Committee of the United 
                States Senate and the Chairman of the Resources 
                Committee of the United States House of Representatives.
            (2) Terms.--Members of the Board appointed under paragraph 
        (1)(B) shall each serve for a term of 4 years, except that of 
        the members first appointed, 3 shall serve for a term of 2 
        years. Any vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same 
        manner in which the original appointment was made,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4100]]

        and any member appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve for the 
        remainder of that term for which his or her predecessor was 
        appointed. No appointed member may serve more than 8 years in 
        consecutive terms.
            (3) Quorum.--Four members of the Board shall constitute a 
        quorum for the conduct of business by the Board.
            (4) Organization and compensation.--The Board shall organize 
        itself in such a manner as it deems most appropriate to 
        effectively carry out the authorized activities of the Trust. 
        Board members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for 
        the actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses 
        incurred by them in the performance of the duties of the Trust.
            (5) Liability of directors.--Members of the Board of 
        Directors shall not be considered Federal employees by virtue of 
        their membership on the Board, except for purposes of the 
        Federal Tort Claims Act and the Ethics in Government Act, and 
        the provisions of chapter 11 of title 18, United States Code.
            (6) Meetings.--The Board shall meet at least three times per 
        year in San Francisco and at least two of those meetings shall 
        be open to the public. Upon a majority vote, the Board 
        may <<NOTE: Procedures. Public information.>>  close any other 
        meetings to the public. The Board shall establish procedures for 
        providing public information and opportunities for public 
        comment regarding policy, planning, and design issues. The Board 
        may establish procedures for providing public information and 
        opportunities for public comment regarding policy, planning, and 
        design issues through the Golden Gate National Recreation Area 
        Advisory 
        Commission.
            (7) Staff.--The Trust is authorized to appoint and fix the 
        compensation and duties of an executive director and such other 
        officers and employees as it deems necessary without regard to 
        the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
        appointments in the competitive service, and may pay them 
        without regard to the provisions of chapter 51, and subchapter 
        III of chapter 53, title 5, United States Code, relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates.
            (8) Necessary powers.--The Trust shall have all 
        necessary and proper powers for the exercise of the authorities 
        vested in it.
            (9) Taxes.--The Trust and all properties administered by the 
        Trust shall be exempt from all taxes and special assessments of 
        every kind by the State of California, and its political 
        subdivisions, including the City and County of San Francisco.
            (10) Government corporation.--(A) The Trust shall be treated 
        as a wholly owned Government corporation subject to chapter 91 
        of title 31, United States Code (commonly referred to as the 
        Government Corporation Control Act). Financial statements of the 
        Trust shall be audited annually in accordance with section 9105 
        of title 31 of the United States Code.
        <<NOTE: Reports.>>     (B) At the end of each calendar year, the 
        Trust shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives a comprehensive and 
        detailed report of its operations, activities, and 
        accomplishments for the prior fiscal year. The report also shall 
        include a section

[[Page 110 STAT. 4101]]

        that describes in general terms the Trust's goals for the 
        current fiscal year.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 104. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF THE 
            TRUST.

    (a) Overall Requirements of the Trust.--The Trust shall manage the 
leasing, maintenance, rehabilitation, repair and improvement of property 
within the Presidio under its administrative jurisdiction using the 
authorities provided in this section, which shall be exercised in 
accordance with the purposes set forth in section 1 of the Act entitled 
``An Act to establish the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in the 
State of California, and for other purposes'', approved October 27, 1972 
(Public Law 92-589; 86 Stat. 1299; 16 U.S.C. 460bb), and in accordance 
with the general objectives of the General Management Plan (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``management plan'') approved for the Presidio.
    (b) Authorities.--The Trust may participate in the development of 
programs and activities at the properties transferred to the Trust, 
except that the Trust shall have the authority to negotiate and enter 
into such agreements, leases, contracts and other arrangements with any 
person, firm, association, organization, corporation or governmental 
entity, including, without limitation, entities of Federal, State and 
local governments as are necessary and appropriate to carry out its 
authorized activities. Any such agreement may be entered into without 
regard to section 321 of the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 
303b). <<NOTE: Procedures. Contracts.>>  The Trust shall establish 
procedures for lease agreements and other agreements for use and 
occupancy of Presidio facilities, including a requirement that in 
entering into such agreements the Trust shall obtain reasonable 
competition. The Trust may not dispose of or convey fee title to any 
real property transferred to it under this title. Federal laws and 
regulations governing procurement by Federal agencies shall not apply to 
the Trust, with the exception of laws and regulations related to Federal 
government contracts governing working conditions and wage rates, 
including the provisions of sections 276a-276a-6 of title 40, United 
States Code (Davis-Bacon Act), and any civil rights provisions otherwise 
applicable thereto. <<NOTE: Procedures. Contracts.>>  The Trust, in 
consultation with the Administrator of Federal Procurement Policy, shall 
establish and promulgate procedures applicable to the Trust's 
procurement of goods and services including, but not limited to, the 
award of contracts on the basis of contractor qualifications, price, 
commercially reasonable buying practices, and reasonable competition.

    (c) Management Program.--The Trust shall develop a comprehensive 
program for management of those lands and facilities within the Presidio 
which are transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust. 
Such program shall be designed to reduce expenditures by the National 
Park Service and increase revenues to the Federal Government to the 
maximum extent possible. In carrying out this program, the Trust shall 
be treated as a successor in interest to the National Park Service with 
respect to compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act and 
other environmental compliance statutes. Such program shall consist of--
            (1) demolition of structures which in the opinion of the 
        Trust, cannot be cost-effectively rehabilitated, and which are 
        identified in the management plan for demolition,
            (2) evaluation for possible demolition or replacement those 
        buildings identified as categories 2 through 5 in the Presidio

[[Page 110 STAT. 4102]]

        of San Francisco Historic Landmark District Historic American 
        Buildings Survey Report, dated 1985,
            (3) new construction limited to replacement of existing 
        structures of similar size in existing areas of development, and
            (4) examination of a full range of reasonable options for 
        carrying out routine administrative and facility management 
        programs.

The Trust shall consult with the Secretary in the preparation of this 
program.
    (d) Financial Authorities.--To augment or encourage the use of non-
Federal funds to finance capital improvements on 
Presidio properties transferred to its jurisdiction, the Trust, in 
addition to its other authorities, shall have the following authorities 
subject to the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et seq.):
            (1) The authority to guarantee any lender against loss of 
        principal or interest on any loan: Provided, That--
                    (A) the terms of the guarantee are approved by the 
                Secretary of the Treasury;
                    (B) adequate subsidy budget authority is provided in 
                advance in appropriations Acts; and
                    (C) such guarantees are structured so as to minimize 
                potential cost to the Federal Government. No loan 
                guarantee under this title shall cover more than 75 
                percent of the unpaid balance of the loan. The Trust may 
                collect a fee sufficient to cover its costs in 
                connection with each loan guaranteed under this title. 
                The authority to enter into any such loan guarantee 
                agreement shall expire at the end of 15 years after the 
                date of enactment of this title.
            (2) The authority, subject to appropriations, to make loans 
        to the occupants of property managed by the Trust for the 
        preservation, restoration, maintenance, or repair of such 
        property.
            (3) The authority to issue obligations to the Secretary of 
        the Treasury, but only if the Secretary of the Treasury agrees 
        to purchase such obligations after determining that the projects 
        to be funded from the proceeds thereof are credit worthy and 
        that a repayment schedule is established and only to the extent 
        authorized in advance in appropriations acts. The Secretary of 
        the Treasury is authorized to use as a public debt transaction 
        the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under 
        chapter 31 of title 31, United States Code, and the purposes for 
        which securities may be issued under such chapter are extended 
        to include any purchase of such notes or obligations acquired by 
        the Secretary of the Treasury under this subsection. Obligations 
        issued under this subparagraph shall be in such forms and 
        denominations, bearing such maturities, and subject to such 
        terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, and shall bear interest at a rate 
        determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, taking into 
        consideration current market yields on outstanding marketable 
        obligations of the United States of comparable maturities. No 
        funds appropriated to the Trust may be used for repayment of 
        principal or interest on, or redemption of, obligations issued 
        under this paragraph.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4103]]

            (4) The aggregate amount of obligations issued under this 
        subsection which are outstanding at any one time may not exceed 
        $50,000,000.

    (e) Donations.--The Trust may solicit and accept donations of funds, 
property, supplies, or services from individuals, foundations, 
corporations, and other private or public entities for the purpose of 
carrying out its duties. The Trust is encouraged to maintain a liaison 
with the Golden Gate National Park Association.
    (f) Public Agency.--The Trust shall be deemed to be a public agency 
for purposes of entering into joint exercise of powers agreements 
pursuant to California government code section 6500 and related 
provisions of that Code.

    (g) Proceeds.--Notwithstanding section 1341 of title 31 of the 
United States Code, all proceeds received by the Trust shall be retained 
by the Trust, and such proceeds shall be available, without further 
appropriation, for the administration, preservation, restoration, 
operation and maintenance, improvement, repair and related expenses 
incurred with respect to Presidio properties under its administrative 
jurisdiction. The Secretary of the Treasury shall invest excess moneys 
of the Trust in public debt securities which shall bear interest at 
rates determined by the Secretary of the Treasury taking into 
consideration the current average market yield on outstanding marketable 
obligations of the United States of comparable maturity.
    (h) Suits.--The Trust may sue and be sued in its own name to the 
same extent as the Federal Government. Litigation arising out of the 
activities of the Trust shall be conducted by the Attorney General; 
except that the Trust may retain private attorneys to provide advice and 
counsel. The District Court for the Northern District of California 
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any suit filed against the Trust.
    (i) Memorandum of Agreement.--The Trust shall enter into a 
Memorandum of Agreement with the Secretary, acting through the Chief of 
the United States Park Police, for the conduct of law enforcement 
activities and services within those portions of the Presidio 
transferred to the administrative jurisdiction of the Trust.
    (j) Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations.--The Trust may adopt, amend, 
repeal, and enforce bylaws, rules and regulations governing the manner 
in which its business may be conducted and the powers vested in it may 
be exercised. The Trust is authorized, in consultation with the 
Secretary, to adopt and to enforce those rules and regulations that are 
applicable to the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and that may be 
necessary and appropriate to carry out its duties and responsibilities 
under this title. <<NOTE: Federal Register publication.>>  The Trust 
shall give notice of the adoption of such rules and regulations by 
publication in the Federal Register.

    (k) Direct Negotiations.--For the purpose of compliance with 
applicable laws and regulations concerning properties transferred to the 
Trust by the Secretary, the Trust shall negotiate directly with 
regulatory authorities.
    (l) Insurance.--The Trust shall require that all leaseholders and 
contractors procure proper insurance against any loss in connection with 
properties under lease or contract, or the authorized activities granted 
in such lease or contract, as is reasonable and customary.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4104]]

    (m) Building Code Compliance.--The Trust shall bring all properties 
under its administrative jurisdiction into compliance with Federal 
building codes and regulations appropriate to use and occupancy within 
10 years after the enactment of this title to the extent practicable.
    (n) Leasing.--In managing and leasing the properties transferred to 
it, the Trust shall consider the extent to which prospective tenants 
contribute to the implementation of the General Management Plan for the 
Presidio and to the reduction of cost to the Federal Government. The 
Trust shall give priority to the following categories of tenants: 
Tenants that enhance the financial viability of the Presidio and tenants 
that facilitate the cost-effective preservation of historic buildings 
through their reuse of such buildings.
    (o) Reversion.--If, at the expiration of 15 years, the Trust has not 
accomplished the goals and objectives of the plan required in section 
105(b) of this title, then all property under the administrative 
jurisdiction of the Trust pursuant to section 103(b) of this title shall 
be transferred to the Administrator of the General 
Services Administration to be disposed of in accordance with the 
procedures outlined in the Defense Authorization Act of 1990 (104 Stat. 
1809), and any real property so transferred shall be deleted from the 
boundary of the Golden
Gate National Recreation Area. In the event of such transfer, the terms 
and conditions of all agreements and loans regarding such lands and 
facilities entered into by the Trust shall be binding on any successor 
in interest.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 105. LIMITATIONS ON FUNDING.

    (a)(1) From amounts made available to the Secretary for the 
operation of areas within the Golden Gate National Recreation Area, not 
more than $25,000,000 shall be available to carry out this title in each 
fiscal year after the enactment of this title until the plan is 
submitted under subsection (b). Such sums shall remain available until 
expended.
    (2) After the plan required in subsection (b) is submitted, and for 
each of the 14 fiscal years thereafter, there are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Trust not more than the amounts specified in such 
plan. Such sums shall remain available until expended. Of such sums, not 
more than $3,000,000 annually shall be available through the Trust for 
law enforcement activities and services to be provided by the United 
States Park Police at the Presidio in accordance with section 104(h) of 
this title.
    (b) Within 1 year after the first meeting of the Board of Directors 
of the Trust, the Trust shall submit to Congress a plan which includes a 
schedule of annual decreasing federally appropriated funding that will 
achieve, at a minimum, self-sufficiency for the Trust within 15 complete 
fiscal years after such meeting of the Trust. No further funds shall be 
authorized for the Trust 15 years after the first meeting of the Board 
of Directors of the Trust.
    (c) The Administrator of the General Services Administration shall 
provide necessary assistance, including detailees as necessary, to the 
Trust in the formulation and submission of the annual budget request for 
the administration, operation, and maintenance of the Presidio.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460bb note.>> SEC. 106. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE STUDY.

    (a) Three years after the first meeting of the Board of Directors of 
the Trust, the General Accounting Office shall conduct an interim study 
of the activities of the Trust and shall report the results

[[Page 110 STAT. 4105]]

of the study to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
Committee on Appropriations of the United States Senate, and the 
Committee on Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives. The study shall include, but shall not be limited to, 
details of how the Trust is meeting its obligations under this title.
    (b) In consultation with the Trust, the General Accounting Office 
shall develop an interim schedule and plan to reduce and replace the 
Federal appropriations to the extent practicable for interpretive 
services conducted by the National Park Service, and law enforcement 
activities and services, fire and public safety 
programs conducted by the Trust.
    (c) Seven years after the first meeting of the Board of Directors of 
the Trust, the General Accounting Office shall conduct a comprehensive 
study of the activities of the Trust, including the Trust's progress in 
meeting its obligations under this title, taking into consideration the 
results of the study described in subsection (a) and the implementation 
of plan and schedule required in 
subsection (b). The General Accounting Office shall report the results 
of the study, including any adjustments to the plan and schedule, to the 
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on 
Appropriations of the United States Senate, and the Committee on 
Resources and Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives.

             TITLE II--BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS AND CONVEYANCES

<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 201. YUCCA HOUSE NATIONAL MONUMENT 
            BOUNDARY 
            ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) In General.--The boundaries of Yucca House National Monument are 
revised to include the approximately 24.27 acres of land generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary--Yucca House National Monument, 
Colorado'', numbered 318/80,001-B, and dated February 1990.
    (b) Map.--The map referred to in subsection (a) shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the National 
Park Service of the Department of the Interior.
    (c) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--Within the lands described in subsection 
        (a), the Secretary of the Interior may acquire lands and 
        interests in lands by donation.
            (2) The Secretary of the Interior may pay administrative 
        costs arising out of any donation described in paragraph (1) 
        with appropriated funds.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 346a-5.>> SEC. 202. ZION NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY 
            ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Acquisition and Boundary Change.--The Secretary of the Interior 
is authorized to acquire by exchange approximately 5.48 acres located in 
the SW\1/4\ of Section 28, Township 41 South, Range 10 West, Salt Lake 
Base and Meridian. In exchange therefor the Secretary is authorized to 
convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
approximately 5.51 acres in Lot 2 of Section 5, Township 41 South, Range 
11 West, both parcels of land being in Washington County, Utah. Upon 
completion of such exchange, the Secretary is authorized to revise the 
boundary

[[Page 110 STAT. 4106]]

of Zion National Park to add the 5.48 acres in section 28 to the park 
and to exclude the 5.51 acres in section 5 from the park. Land added to 
the park shall be administered as part of the park in accordance with 
the laws and regulations applicable thereto.
    (b) Expiration.--The authority granted by this section shall expire 
2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 460s-14.>> SEC. 203. PICTURED ROCKS NATIONAL 
                        LAKESHORE BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The boundary of Pictured Rocks National Lakeshore is hereby modified 
as depicted on the map entitled ``Area Proposed for Addition to Pictured 
Rocks National Lakeshore'', numbered 625-80,043A, and dated July 1992.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 407m-8.>> SEC. 204. INDEPENDENCE NATIONAL 
                        HISTORICAL PARK BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    The administrative boundary between Independence National Historical 
Park and the United States Customs House along the Moravian Street 
Walkway in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, is hereby modified as generally 
depicted on the drawing entitled ``Exhibit 1, Independence National 
Historical Park, Boundary Adjustment'', and dated May 1987, which shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to accept and transfer jurisdiction over property 
in accord with such administrative boundary, as modified by this 
section.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 205. CRATERS OF THE MOON NATIONAL 
                        MONUMENT BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    (a) Boundary Revision.--The boundary of Craters of the Moon National 
Monument, Idaho, is revised to add approximately 210 acres and to delete 
approximately 315 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Craters of the Moon National Monument, Idaho, Proposed 1987 Boundary 
Adjustment'', numbered 131-80,008, and dated October 1987, which map 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office of 
the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.

    (b) Administration and Acquisition.--Federal lands and interests 
therein deleted from the boundary of the national monument by this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior through 
the Bureau of Land Management in accordance with the Federal Land Policy 
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and Federal lands 
and interests therein added to the national monument by this section 
shall be administered by the Secretary as part of the national monument, 
subject to the laws and regulations applicable thereto. The Secretary is 
authorized to acquire private lands and interests therein within the 
boundary of the national monument by donation, purchase with donated or 
appropriated funds, or exchange, and when acquired they shall be 
administered by the Secretary as part of the national monument, subject 
to the laws and regulations applicable thereto.
SEC. 206. HAGERMAN FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL MONUMENT 
                        BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.

    Section 302 of the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988 (102 Stat. 
4576) <<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>>  is amended by adding the following new 
subsection after subsection (c):

[[Page 110 STAT. 4107]]

    ``(d) To further the purposes of the monument, the Secretary is also 
authorized to acquire from willing sellers only, by donation, purchase 
with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange not to exceed 65 acres 
outside the boundary depicted on the map referred to in section 301 and 
develop and operate thereon research, information, interpretive, and 
administrative facilities. Lands acquired and facilities developed 
pursuant to this subsection shall by administered by the Secretary as 
part of the monument. The boundary of the monument shall be modified to 
include the lands added under this subsection as a non-contiguous 
parcel.''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 207. WUPATKI NATIONAL MONUMENT BOUNDARY 
            ADJUSTMENT.

    The boundaries of the Wupatki National Monument, Arizona, are hereby 
revised to include the lands and interests in lands within the area 
generally depicted as ``Proposed Addition 168.89 Acres'' on the map 
entitled ``Boundary--Wupatki and Sunset Crater National Monuments, 
Arizona'', numbered 322-80,021, and dated April 1989. The map shall be 
on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
National Park Service, Department of the Interior. Subject to valid 
existing rights, Federal lands and interests therein within the area 
added to the monument by this section are hereby transferred without 
monetary consideration or reimbursement to the administrative 
jurisdiction of the National Park Service, to be administered as part of 
the monument in accordance with the laws and regulations applicable 
thereto.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 208. WALNUT CANYON NATIONAL 
                        MONUMENT BOUNDARY 
                        MODIFICATION.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to modify the 
boundaries of the Walnut Canyon National Monument (hereafter in this 
section referred to as the ``national monument'') to improve management 
of the national monument and associated resources.
    (b) Boundary Modification.--Effective on the date of enactment of 
this Act, the boundaries of the national monument shall be modified as 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary Proposal--Walnut Canyon National 
Monument, Coconino County, Arizona'', numbered 360/80,010, and dated 
September 1994. Such map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the offices of the Director of the National Park Service, 
Department of the Interior. The Secretary of the Interior, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, is authorized to make 
technical and clerical corrections to such map.
    (c) Acquisition and Transfer of Property.--The Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to acquire lands and interest in lands within the 
national monument, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated 
funds, or exchange. Federal property within the boundaries of the
national monument (as modified by this section) is hereby transferred to 
the administrative jurisdiction of the 
Secretary of the Interior for management as part of the national 
monument. Federal property excluded from the monument pursuant to the 
boundary modification under subsection (b) is hereby transferred to the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture to be 
managed as a part of the Coconino National Forest.

    (d) Administration.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the National Park Service, shall manage the national 
monument in accordance with this title and the provisions of law 
generally applicable to units of the National Park Service, including 
``An Act to establish a National Park Service,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4108]]

and for other purposes'' approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 
U.S.C. 1, 2-4).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are hereby authorized to 
be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 209. BUTTE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA LAND CONVEYANCE.

    (a) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to authorize and 
direct the Secretary of Agriculture to convey, without consideration, 
certain lands in Butte County, California, to persons claiming to have 
been deprived of title to such lands.
    (b) Definitions.--For the purpose of this section:
            (1) The term ``affected lands'' means those Federal lands 
        located in the Plumas National Forest in Butte County, 
        California, in sections 11, 12, 13, and 14, township 21 north, 
        range 5 East, Mount Diablo Meridian, as described by the 
        dependent resurvey by the Bureau of Land Management conducted in 
        1992, and subsequent Forest Service land line location surveys, 
        including all adjoining parcels where the property line as 
        identified by the 1992 BLM dependent resurvey and National 
        Forest boundary lines before such dependent resurvey are not 
        coincident.
            (2) The term ``claimant'' means an owner of real property in 
        Butte County, California, whose real property adjoins Plumas 
        National Forest lands described in paragraph (1), who claims to 
        have been deprived by the United States of title to property as 
        a result of previous erroneous surveys.
            (3) The terms ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

    (c) Conveyance of Lands.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, the Secretary is authorized and directed to convey, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to affected lands as described in subsection (b)(1), to any claimant 
or claimants, upon proper application from such claimant or claimants, 
as provided in subsection (d).
    (d) Notification.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, claimants shall notify the Secretary, through the 
Forest Supervisor of the Plumas National Forest, in writing of their 
claim to affected lands. Such claim shall be accompanied by--
            (1) a description of the affected lands claimed;
            (2) information relating to the claim of ownership of such 
        lands; and
            (3) such other information as the Secretary may require.

    (e) Issuance of Deed.--(1) Upon a determination by the 
Secretary that issuance of a deed for affected lands is consistent with 
the purpose and requirements of this section, the Secretary shall issue 
a quit claim deed to such claimant for the parcel to be conveyed.
    (2) Prior to the issuance of any such deed as provided in paragraph 
(1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
            (A) the parcel or parcels to be conveyed have been surveyed 
        in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the 
        Forest Service and
the Bureau of Land Management, dated November 11, 1989;
            (B) all new property lines established by such surveys have 
        been monumented and marked; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4109]]

            (C) all terms and conditions necessary to protect third 
        party and Government Rights-of-Way or other interests are 
        included in the deed.

    (3) The Federal Government shall be responsible for all surveys and 
property line markings necessary to implement this subsection.
    (f) Notification to BLM.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
Secretary of the Interior an authenticated copy of each deed issued 
pursuant to this section no later than 30 days after the date such deed 
is issued.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as necessary to carry out the purposes of this 
section.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> SEC. 210. TAOS PUEBLO LAND TRANSFER.

    (a) Transfer.--The parcel of land described in subsection (b) is 
hereby transferred without consideration to the Secretary of the 
Interior to be held in trust for the Pueblo de Taos. Such parcel shall 
be a part of the Pueblo de Taos Reservation and shall be managed in 
accordance with section 4 of the Act of May 31, 1933 (48 Stat. 108) (as 
amended, including as amended by Public Law 91-550 (84 Stat. 1437)).
    (b) Land Description.--The parcel of land referred to in subsection 
(a) is the land that is generally depicted on the map entitled ``Lands 
transferred to the Pueblo of Taos--proposed'' and dated September 1994, 
comprises 764.33 acres, and is situated within sections 25, 26, 35, and 
36, Township 27 North, Range 14 East, New Mexico Principal Meridian, 
within the Wheeler Peak Wilderness, Carson National Forest, Taos County, 
New Mexico.
    (c) Conforming Boundary Adjustments.--The boundaries of the Carson 
National Forest and the Wheeler Peak Wilderness are hereby adjusted to 
reflect the transfer made by subsection (a).
    (d) Resolution of Outstanding Claims.--The Congress finds and 
declares that, as a result of the enactment of this section, the Taos 
Pueblo has no unresolved equitable or legal claims against the United 
States on the lands to be held in trust and to become part of the Pueblo 
de Taos Reservation under this section.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 81p.>> SEC. 211. COLONIAL NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Transfer and Rights-of-Way.--The Secretary of the Interior 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') is 
authorized to transfer, without reimbursement, to York County, Virginia, 
that portion of the existing sewage disposal system, including related 
improvements and structures, owned by the United States and located 
within the Colonial National Historical Park, together with such rights-
of-way as are determined by the Secretary to be necessary to maintain 
and operate such system.
    (b) Repair and Rehabilitation of System.--The Secretary is 
authorized to enter into a cooperative agreement with York County, 
Virginia, under which the Secretary will pay a portion, not to exceed 
$110,000, of the costs of repair and rehabilitation of the sewage 
disposal system referred to in subsection (a).
    (c) Fees and Charges.--In consideration for the rights-of-way 
granted under subsection (a), and in recognition of the National Park 
Service's contribution authorized under subsection (b), the cooperative 
agreement under subsection (b) shall provide for a reduction in, or the 
elimination of, the amounts charged to the National Park Service for its 
sewage disposal. The cooperative agreement shall also provide for 
minimizing the impact of the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4110]]

sewage disposal system on the park and its resources. Such system may 
not be enlarged or substantially altered without National Park Service 
concurrence.

    (d) Inclusion of Land in Colonial National Historical Park.--
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act of June 28, 1938 (52 Stat. 
1208; 16 U.S.C. 81b et seq.), limiting the average width of the Colonial 
Parkway, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to include within 
the boundaries of Colonial National Historical Park and to acquire by 
donation, exchange, or purchase with donated or appropriated funds the 
lands or interests in lands (with or without improvements) within the 
areas depicted on the map dated August 1993, numbered 333/80031A, and 
entitled ``Page Landing Addition to Colonial National Historical Park''. 
Such map shall be on file and available for inspection in the offices of 
the National Park Service at Colonial National Historical Park and in 
Washington, District of Columbia.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section.

SEC. 212. CUPRUM, IDAHO RELIEF.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds and declares that:
            (1) In 1899, the citizens of Cuprum, Idaho, commissioned 
        E.S. Hesse to conduct a survey describing these lands occupied 
        by their community. The purpose of this survey was to provide a 
        basis for the application for a townsite patent.
            (2) In 1909, the Cuprum Townsite patent (Number 52817) was 
        granted, based on an aliquot parts description which was 
        intended to circumscribe the Hesse survey.
            (3) Since the day of the patent, the Hesse survey has been 
        used continuously by the community of Cuprum and by Adams 
        County, Idaho, as the official townsite plat and basis for 
        conveyance of title within the townsite.
            (4) Recent boundary surveys conducted by the United States 
        Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, and the United States 
        Department of the Interior, Bureau of Land Management, 
        discovered inconsistencies between the official aliquot parts 
        description of the patented Cuprum Townsite and the Hesse 
        survey. Many lots along the south and east boundaries of the 
        townsite are now known to extend onto National Forest System 
        lands outside the townsite.
            (5) It is the determination of Congress that the original 
        intent of the Cuprum Townsite application was to include all the 
        lands described by the Hesse survey.

    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section to amend the 1909 
Cuprum Townsite patent to include those additional lands described by 
the Hesse survey in addition to other lands necessary to provide an 
administratively acceptable boundary to the National Forest System.
    (c) Amendment of Patent.--The 1909 Cuprum Townsite 
patent is hereby amended to include parcels 1 and 2, identified on the 
plat, marked as ``Township 20 North, Range 3 West, Boise Meridian, 
Idaho, Section 10: Proposed Patent Adjustment Cuprum Townsite, Idaho'' 
prepared by Payette N.F.--Land Survey Unit, drawn and approved by Tom 
Betzold, Forest Land Surveyor, on April 25, 1995. Such additional lands 
are hereby conveyed to the original patentee, Pitts Ellis, trustee, and 
Probate Judge of

[[Page 110 STAT. 4111]]

Washington County, Idaho, or any successors or assigns in interest in 
accordance with State law. The Secretary of Agriculture may correct 
clerical and typographical errors in such plat.
    (d) Survey.--The Federal Government shall survey the Federal 
property lines and mark and post the boundaries necessary to implement 
this section.

SEC. 213. RELINQUISHMENT OF INTEREST.

    (a) In General.--The United States relinquishes all right, title, 
and interest that the United States may have in land that--
            (1) was subject to a right-of-way that was granted to the 
        predecessor of the Chicago and Northwestern Transportation 
        Company under the Act entitled ``An Act granting to railroads 
        the right of way through the public lands of the United 
        States'', approved March 3, 1875 (42 U.S.C. 934 et seq.), which 
        right-of-way the Company has conveyed to the city of Douglas, 
        Wyoming; and
            (2) is located within the boundaries of the city limits of 
        the city of Douglas, Wyoming, or between the right-of-way of 
        Interstate 25 and the city limits of the city of Douglas, 
        Wyoming;

as determined by the Secretary of the Interior in consultation with the 
appropriate officials of the city of Douglas, Wyoming.
    (b) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall file for recordation in 
the real property records of Converse County, Wyoming, a deed or other 
appropriate form of instrument conveying to the city of Douglas, 
Wyoming, all right, title, and interest in the land described in 
subsection (a).

    (c) Conveyance of Certain Property to the Big Horn County School 
District Number 1, Wyoming.--The Secretary of the Interior shall convey, 
by quit claim deed, to the Big Horn County School District Number 1, 
Wyoming, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
the following described lands in Big Horn County, Wyoming: Lots 19-24 of 
Block 22, all within the town of Frannie, Wyoming, in the S\1/2\NW\1/
4\NW\1/4\ and N\1/2\SW\1/4\NW\1/4\ of section 31 of T. 58N., R. 97 W., 
Big Horn County.

SEC. 214. MODOC NATIONAL FOREST.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Modoc National Forest is hereby 
modified to include and encompass 760 acres, more or less, on the 
following described lands: Mount Diablo Meridian, Lassen County, 
California T. 38 N., R. 10 E., sec. 5, SE\1/4\NW\1/4\, E\1/2\SW\1/4\; 
sec. 8, E\1/2\NE\1/4\, NE\1/4\NW\1/4\, NE\1/4\SE\1/4\, sec. 16, W\1/2\; 
sec. 25, Lots 13, 14 and 15 (S\1/2\SW\1/4\, SW\1/4\SE\1/4\); T. 37 N., 
R. 11 E., sec. 20, NW\1/4\SE\1/4\.
    (b) Rule for Land and Water Conservation Fund.--For the purposes of 
section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 
460l-9), the boundary of the Modoc National Forest, as modified by this 
title, shall be considered to the boundary of the National Forest as of 
January 1, 1995.

SEC. 215. CONVEYANCE TO CITY OF SUMPTER, OREGON.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall convey, 
without consideration, to the city of Sumpter, Oregon (in this section 
referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of real property of 


[[Page 110 STAT. 4112]]

approximately 1.43 acres consisting of all of block 8 of the REVISED 
PLAN OF SUMPTER TOWNSITE in the City, as shown in plat recorded March 6, 
1897, in Plat Book 3, page 26; including the alley running through such 
block, vacated by Ordinance No. 1966-3, recorded December 14, 1966, in 
Deed 66-50-014.
    (b) Additional Description of Property.--The real property to be 
conveyed under subsection (a) consists of the same property that was 
deeded to the United States in the following deeds:
            (1) Warranty Deed from Sumpter Power & Water Company to the 
        United States of America dated October 12, 1949, and recorded in 
        Vol. 152, page 170 of Baker County records on December 22, 1949.
            (2) Warranty Deed from Mrs. Alice Windle to the United 
        States of America dated October 11, 1949, and recorded in Vol. 
        152, page 168 of Baker County records on December 22, 1949.
            (3) Warranty Deed from Alice L. Windle Charles and 
        James M. Charles to the United States of America and dated 
        August 8, 1962, and recorded in Book 172, page 1331 on August 
        27, 1962.

    (c) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the condition that the City use the 
conveyed property only for public purposes, such as a city park, 
information center, or interpretive area.
    (d) Release.--Upon making the conveyance required by 
subsection (a), the United States is relieved from liability for any and 
all claims arising from the presence of materials on the 
conveyed property.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of Agriculture 
determines that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not 
being used in accordance with the condition specified in subsection (c) 
or that the City has initiated proceedings to sell, lease, exchange, or 
otherwise dispose of all or a portion of the property, than, at the 
option of the Secretary, the United States shall have a right of reentry 
with regard to the property, with title thereto revesting in the United 
States.
    (f) Authorized Sale of Property.--Notwithstanding subsections (c) 
and (e), the Secretary of Agriculture may authorize the City to dispose 
of the real property conveyed under subsection (a) if the proceeds from 
such disposal are at least equal to the fair market value of the 
property and are paid to the United States. The Secretary shall deposit 
amounts received under this subsection into the special fund in the 
Treasury into which funds are deposited pursuant to the Act of December 
4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a), commonly known as the Sisk Act. The disposal 
of the 
conveyed property under this subsection shall be subject to such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
may require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (a) as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 268.>> SEC. 216. CUMBERLAND GAP NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding the Act of June 11, 1940 (16 U.S.C. 
261 et seq.), the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to acquire by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated

[[Page 110 STAT. 4113]]

funds, or exchange not to exceed 10 acres of land or interests in land, 
which shall consist of those necessary lands for the establishment of 
trailheads to be located at White Rocks and Chadwell Gap.
    (b) Administration.--Lands and interests in lands acquired pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall be added to and administered as part of the 
Cumberland Gap National Historical Park.

SEC. 217. ALPINE SCHOOL DISTRICT.

    (a) Conveyance Required.--(1) The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
convey, without consideration, to the Alpine Elementary School District 
7 of the State of Arizona (in this section referred to as the ``School 
District''), all right, title and interest of the United States in and 
to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 30 acres located in the Apache National 
Forest, Apache County, Arizona, and further delineated as follows: North 
\1/2\ of Northeast \1/4\ of Southeast \1/4\ of section 14, Township 5 
North, Range 30 East, Gila and Salt River meridian, and North \1/2\ of 
South \1/2\ of Northeast \1/4\ of Southeast \1/4\ of such section.
    (2) The exact acreage and legal description of the real property to 
be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary. The cost of the survey shall be borne by 
the School District.
    (b) Condition of Conveyance.--The conveyance made under subsection 
(a) shall be subject to the condition that the School District use the 
conveyed property for public school facilities and related public school 
recreational purposes.
    (c) Right of Reentry.--The United States shall retain a right of 
reentry in the property to be conveyed. If the Secretary determines that 
the conveyed property is not being used in accordance with the condition 
in subsection (b), the United States shall have the right to reenter the 
conveyed property without consideration.
    (d) Encumbrances.--The conveyance made under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to all encumbrances on the property existing as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) of the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.

SEC. 218. MERCED IRRIGATION DISTRICT LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Conveyance.--(1) The Secretary of the Interior may convey the 
Federal lands described in subsection (d)(1) in exchange for the non-
Federal lands described in subsection (d)(2), in accordance with the 
provisions of this Act.
    (b) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--The land exchange 
required in this section shall be carried out in accordance with section 
206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716) and in accordance with other applicable laws.
    (c) Acceptability of Title and Manner of Conveyance.--The Secretary 
of the Interior shall not carry out an exchange described in subsection 
(a) unless the title to the non-Federal lands to be conveyed to the 
United States, and the form and procedures of conveyance, are acceptable 
to the Secretary.
    (d) Lands To Be Exchanged.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4114]]

            (1) Federal lands to be exchanged.--The Federal lands 
        referred to in this section to be exchanged consist of 
        approximately 179.4 acres in Mariposa County, California as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Merced Irrigation 
        District Exchange--Proposed, Federal Land'', dated March 15, 
        1995, more particularly described as follows:
                    T. 3 S., R. 15 E., MDM (Mount Diablo Meridian):
                          Sec. 35, SW\1/4\SE\1/4\, containing 
                      approximately 40 acres.
                    T. 4 S., R. 15 E., MDM (Mount Diablo Meridian):
                          Sec. 14: E\1/2\SE\1/4\SE\1/4\, containing 
                      approximately 20 acres.
                          Sec. 23: NE\1/4\SE\1/4\, containing 
                      approximately 40 acres.
                    T. 5 S., R. 15 E., MDM (Mount Diablo Meridian):
                          Sec. 2: Lot 1, containing approximately 57.9 
                      acres.
                          Sec. 3: Lots 7 thru 15, containing 
                      approximately 21.5 acres.
            (2) Non-federal lands to be exchanged.--The non-
        Federal lands referred to in this section to be exchanged 
        consist of approximately 160 acres in Mariposa County, 
        California as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Merced 
        Irrigation District Exchange--Proposed, Non-Federal Land'', 
        dated March 15, 1995, more particularly described as T. 4 S., 
        R17E MDM (Mount Diablo Meridian): sec. 2, SE\1/4\.
            (3) Maps.--The maps referred to in this subsection shall be 
        on file and available for inspection in the office of the 
        Director of the Bureau of Land Management.
            (4) Partial revocation of withdrawals.--The Executive Order 
        of December 31, 1912, creating Powersite Reserve No. 328, and 
        the withdrawal of Federal lands for Power Project No. 2179, 
        filed February 21, 1963, in accordance with section 24 of the 
        Federal Power Act are hereby revoked insofar as they affect the 
        Federal lands described in paragraph (1). Any patent issued on 
        such Federal lands shall not be subject to section 24 of said 
        Act.

<<NOTE: Father Aull Site Transfer Act of 1996.>> SEC. 219. FATHER AULL 
            SITE TRANSFER.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Father Aull 
Site Transfer Act of 1996''.
    (b) Conveyance of Property.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
right, title and interest of the United States in and to the land 
(including improvements on the land), consisting of approximately 43.06 
acres, located approximately 10 miles east of Silver City, New Mexico, 
and described as follows: T. 17 S., R. 12 W., Section 30: Lot 13, and 
Section 31: Lot 27 (as generally depicted on the map dated July 1995) is 
hereby conveyed by operation of law to St. Vincent DePaul Parish in 
Silver City, New Mexico, without consideration.
    (c) Release.--Upon the conveyance of any land or interest in land 
identified in this section to St. Vincent DePaul Parish, St. Vincent 
DePaul Parish shall assume any liability for any claim relating to the 
land or interest in the land arising after the date of the conveyance.
    (d) Map.--The map referred to in this section shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4115]]

            (1) the State of New Mexico Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, Santa Fe, New Mexico; and
            (2) the Las Cruces District Office of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, Las Cruces, New Mexico.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 3503 note.>> SEC. 220. COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall, before the end 
of the 30-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
make such corrections to the maps described in subsection (b) as are 
necessary to ensure that depictions of areas on those maps
are consistent with the depictions of areas appearing on the maps 
entitled ``Amendments to Coastal Barrier Resources System'', dated 
November 1, 1995, and June 1, 1996, and on file with the Secretary.

    (b) Maps Described.--The maps described in this subsection are maps 
that--
            (1) are included in a set of maps entitled ``Coastal Barrier 
        Resources System'', dated October 24, 1990; and
            (2) relate to the following units of the Coastal Barrier 
        Resources System: P05, P05A, P10, P11, P11A, P18, P25, P32, and 
        P32P.
SEC. 221. CONVEYANCE TO DEL NORTE COUNTY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT.

    (a) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall convey to the 
Del Norte County Unified School District of Del Norte County, 
California, in accordance with this section, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the property described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Property Description.--The property referred to in 
subsection (a) is that portion of Township 17 North, Range 2 East, 
Humboldt Meridian in Del Norte County, California, which is further 
described as follows:
            Beginning at Angle Point No. 3 of Tract 41 as resurveyed by 
        the Bureau of Land Management under survey Group No. 1013, 
        approved August 13, 1990, and shown on the official plat 
        thereof;
            thence on the line between Angle Points No. 3 and No. 4 of 
        Tract 41, North 89 degrees, 24 minutes, 20 seconds East, a 
        distance of 345.44 feet to Angle Point No. 4 of Tract 41;
            thence on the line between Angle Points No. 4 and No. 5 of 
        Tract 41, South 00 degrees, 01 minutes, 20 seconds East, a 
        distance of 517.15 feet;
            thence West, a distance of 135.79 feet;
            thence North 88 degrees, 23 minutes, 01 second West, a 
        distance of 61.00 feet;
            thence North 39 degrees, 58 minutes, 18 seconds West, a 
        distance of 231.37 feet to the East line of Section 21, Township 
        17 North, Range 2 East;
            thence along the East line of Section 21, North 00 degrees, 
        02 minutes, 20 seconds West, a distance of 334.53 feet to the 
        point of beginning.

    (c) Consideration.--The conveyance provided for in subsection (a) 
shall be without consideration except as required by this section.
    (d) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance provided for in 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4116]]

            (1) Del Norte County shall be provided, for no 
        consideration, an easement for County Road No. 318 which crosses 
        the Northeast corner of the property conveyed.
            (2) The Pacific Power and Light Company shall be provided, 
        for no consideration, an easement for utility equipment as 
        necessary to maintain the level of service provided by the 
        utility equipment on the property as of the date of the 
        conveyance.
            (3) The United States shall be provided, for no 
        consideration, an easement to provide access to the United 
        States property that is south of the property conveyed.

    (e) Limitations on Conveyance.--The conveyance authorized by 
subsection (a) is subject to the following limitations:
            (1) Encumbrances.--Such conveyance shall be subject to all 
        encumbrances on the land existing as of the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Re-entry right.--The United States shall retain a right 
        of re-entry in the land described for conveyance in 
        subsection (b). If the Secretary determines that the conveyed 
        property is not being used for public educational or related 
        recreational purposes, the United States shall have a right to 
        re-enter the property conveyed therein without consideration.

    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The conveyance provided for in 
subsection (a) shall be subject to such additional terms and conditions 
as the Secretary of Agriculture and the Del Norte County Unified School 
District agree are necessary to protect the interests of the United 
States.

                          TITLE III--EXCHANGES

SEC. 301. TARGHEE NATIONAL FOREST LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Conveyance.--Notwithstanding the requirements in the Act 
entitled ``An Act to Consolidate National Forest Lands'', approved March 
20, 1922 (16 U.S.C. 485), and section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy 
and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)) that Federal and non-
Federal lands exchanged for each other must be located within the same 
State, the Secretary of Agriculture may convey the Federal lands 
described in subsection (d) in exchange for the non-Federal lands 
described in subsection (e) in accordance with the provisions of this 
section.
    (b) Applicability of Other Provisions of Law.--Except as otherwise 
provided in this section, the land exchange authorized by this section 
shall be made under the existing authorities of the Secretary.
    (c) Acceptability of Title and Manner of Conveyance.--The Secretary 
shall not carry out the exchange described in subsection (a) unless the 
title to the non-Federal lands to be conveyed to the United States, and 
the form and procedures of conveyance, are acceptable to the Secretary.
    (d) Federal Lands.--The Federal lands referred to in this section 
are located in the Targhee National Forest in Idaho, are generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Targhee Exchange, Idaho-Wyoming--
Proposed, Federal Land'', dated September 1994, and are known as the 
North Fork Tract.
    (e) Non-Federal Lands.--The non-Federal lands referred to in this 
section are located in the Targhee National Forest in

[[Page 110 STAT. 4117]]

Wyoming, are generally depicted on the map entitled ``Non-Federal land, 
Targhee Exchange, Idaho-Wyoming--Proposed'', dated September 1994, and 
are known as the Squirrel Meadows Tract.
    (f) Maps.--The maps referred to in subsections (d) and (e) shall be 
on file and available for inspection in the office of the Targhee 
National Forest in Idaho and in the office of the Chief of the Forest 
Service.
    (g) Equalization of Values.--Prior to the exchange authorized by 
this section, the values of the Federal and non-Federal lands to be so 
exchanged shall be established by appraisals of fair market value that 
shall be subject to approval by the Secretary. The values either shall 
be equal or shall be equalized using the following methods:
            (1) Adjustment of lands.--
                    (A) Portion of federal lands.--If the Federal lands 
                are greater in value than the non-Federal lands, the 
                Secretary shall reduce the acreage of the Federal lands 
                until the values of the Federal lands closely 
                approximate the values of the non-Federal lands.
                    (B) Additional federally owned lands.--If the 
                non-Federal lands are greater in value than the Federal 
                lands, the Secretary may convey additional federally 
                owned lands within the Targhee National Forest up to an 
                amount necessary to equalize the values of the non-
                Federal lands and the lands to be transferred out of 
                Federal ownership. However, such additional federally 
                owned lands shall be limited to those meeting the 
                criteria for land exchanges specified in the Targhee 
                National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan.
            (2) Payment of money.--The values may be equalized by the 
        payment of money as provided in section 206(b) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716 (b)).

    (h) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) The term ``Federal lands'' means the Federal lands 
        described in subsection (d).
            (2) The term ``non-Federal lands'' means the non-Federal 
        lands described in subsection (e).
            (3) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 410hh note.>> SEC. 302. ANAKTUVUK PASS LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 
        Stat. 2371), enacted on December 2, 1980, established Gates of 
        the Arctic National Park and Preserve and Gates of the Arctic 
        Wilderness. The Village of Anaktuvuk Pass, located in the 
        highlands of the central Brooks Range is virtually surrounded by 
        these national park and wilderness lands and is the only Native 
        village located within the boundary of a National Park System 
        unit in Alaska.
            (2) Unlike most other Alaskan Native communities, the 
        village of Anaktuvuk Pass is not located on a major river, lake, 
        or coastline that can be used as a means of access. The 
        residents of Anaktuvuk pass have relied increasingly on snow 
        machines in winter and all-terrain vehicles in summer

[[Page 110 STAT. 4118]]

        as their primary means of access to pursue caribou and other 
        subsistence resources.
            (3) In a 1983 land exchange agreement, linear easements were 
        reserved by the Inupiat Eskimo people for use of all-terrain 
        vehicles across certain national park lands, mostly along stream 
        and river banks. These linear easements proved unsatisfactory, 
        because they provided inadequate access to subsistence resources 
        while causing excessive environmental impact from concentrated 
        use.
            (4) The National Park Service and the Nunamiut Corporation 
        initiated discussions in 1985 to address concerns over the use 
        of all-terrain vehicles on park and wilderness land. These 
        discussions resulted in an agreement, originally executed in 
        1992 and thereafter amended in 1993 and 1994, among the National 
        Park Service, Nunamiut Corporation, the City of Anaktuvuk Pass, 
        and Arctic Slope Regional Corporation. Full effectuation of this 
        agreement, as amended, by its terms requires ratification by the 
        Congress.

    (b) Ratification of agreement.--
            (1) Ratification.--
                    (A) In general.--The terms, conditions, procedures, 
                covenants, reservations, and other provisions set forth 
                in the document entitled ``Donation, Exchange of Lands 
                and Interests in Lands and Wilderness Redesignation 
                Agreement Among Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, 
                Nunamiut Corporation, City of Anaktuvuk Pass and the 
                United States of America'' (hereinafter referred to in 
                this section as ``the Agreement''), executed by the 
                parties on December 17, 1992, as amended, are hereby 
                incorporated in this title, are ratified and confirmed, 
                and set forth the obligations and commitments of the 
                United States, Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, 
                Nunamiut Corporation and the City of Anaktuvuk Pass, as 
                a matter of Federal law.
                    (B) Land acquisition.--Lands acquired by the United 
                States pursuant to the Agreement shall be administered 
                by the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred 
                to as the ``Secretary'') as part of Gates of the Arctic 
                National Park and Preserve, subject to the laws and 
                regulations applicable thereto.
            (2) Maps.--The maps set forth as Exhibits C1, C2, and D 
        through I to the Agreement depict the lands subject to the 
        conveyances, retention of surface access rights, access 
        easements and all-terrain vehicle easements. These lands are 
        depicted in greater detail on a map entitled ``Land Exchange 
        Actions, Proposed Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness 
        Redesignation, Gates of the Arctic National
Park and Preserve'', Map No. 185/80,039, dated April 1994, and on file 
at the Alaska Regional Office of the National Park Service and the 
offices of Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve in Fairbanks, 
Alaska. Written legal descriptions of these lands shall be prepared and 
made available in the above offices. In case of any discrepancies, Map 
No. 185/80,039 shall be controlling.

    (c) National Park System Wilderness.--
            (1) Gates of the arctic wilderness.--
                    (A) Redesignation.--Section 701(2) of the Alaska 
                National Interest Lands Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2371,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4119]]

                2417) <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> establishing the Gates 
                of the Arctic Wilderness is hereby amended with the 
                addition of approximately 56,825 acres of wilderness and 
                the rescission of approximately 73,993 acres as 
                wilderness, thus revising the Gates of the Arctic 
                Wilderness to approximately 7,034,832 acres.
                    (B) Map.--The lands redesignated by subparagraph (A) 
                are depicted on a map entitled ``Wilderness Actions, 
                Proposed Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness 
                Redesignation, Gates of the Arctic National Park and 
                Preserve'', Map No. 185/80,040, dated April 1994, and on 
                file at the Alaska Regional Office of the National Park 
                Service and the office of Gates of the Arctic National 
                Park and Preserve in Fairbanks, Alaska.
            (2) Noatak national preserve.--Section 201(8)(a) of the 
        Alaska National Interest Land Conservation Act <<NOTE: 16 USC 
        410hh.>>  (94 Stat. 2380) is amended by--
                    (A) striking ``approximately six million four 
                hundred and sixty thousand acres'' and inserting in lieu 
                thereof ``approximately 6,477,168 acres''; and
                    (B) inserting ``and the map entitled `Noatak 
                National Preserve and Noatak Wilderness Addition' dated 
                September 1994'' after ``July 1980''.
            (3) Noatak wilderness.--Section 701(7) of the Alaska 
        National <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>>  Interest Lands 
        Conservation Act (94 Stat. 2417) is amended by striking 
        ``approximately five million eight hundred thousand acres'' and 
        inserting in lieu thereof ``approximately 5,817,168 acres''.

    (d) Conformance With Other Law.--
            (1) Alaska native claims settlement act.--All of the lands, 
        or interests therein, conveyed to and received by Arctic Slope 
        Regional Corporation or Nunamiut Corporation pursuant to the 
        Agreement shall be deemed conveyed and received pursuant to 
        exchanges under section 22(f) of the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601, 1621(f)). All of the 
        lands or interests in lands conveyed pursuant to the Agreement 
        shall be conveyed subject to valid existing rights.
            (2) Alaska national interest lands conservation act.--Except 
        to the extent specifically set forth in this section or the 
        Agreement, nothing in this section or in the Agreement shall be 
        construed to enlarge or diminish the rights, privileges, or 
        obligations of any person, including specifically the preference 
        for subsistence uses and access to subsistence resources 
        provided under the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).

SEC. 303. ALASKA PENINSULA SUBSURFACE CONSOLIDATION.

    (a) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) Agency.--The term agency--
                    (A) means any instrumentality of the United States, 
                and any Government corporation (as defined in section 
                9101(1) of title 31, United States Code); and
                    (B) includes any element of an agency.
            (2) Alaska native corporation.--The Term ``Alaska Native 
        Corporation'' has the same meaning as is provided for ``Native 
        Corporation'' in section 3(m) of the Alaska Native Claims 
        Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(m)).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4120]]

            (3) Federal lands or interest therein.--The term 
        ``Federal lands or interests therein'' means any lands or 
        properties owned by the United States (A) which are administered 
        by the Secretary, or (B) which are subject to a lease to third 
        parties, or (C) which have been made available to the Secretary 
        for exchange under this section through the concurrence of the 
        director of the agency administering such lands or properties: 
        Provided however, That excluded from such lands shall be those 
        lands which are within an existing conservation system unit as 
        defined in section 102(4) of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
        Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3102(4)), and those
lands the mineral interest for which are currently under mineral lease.
            (4) Koniag.--The term ``Koniag'' means Koniag, Incorporated, 
        which is a regional Corporation.
            (5) Regional corporation.--The term ``Regional Corporation'' 
        has the same meaning as is provided in section 3(g) of the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(g)).
            (6) Secretary.--Except as otherwise provided, the term 
        ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior.
            (7) Selection rights.--The term ``selection rights'' means 
        those rights granted to Koniag, and confirmed as valid 
        selections (within Koniag's entitlement) pursuant to subsections 
        (a) and (b) of section 12, and section 14(h)(8), of the Alaska 
        Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1611 and 1613(h)(8)), to 
        receive title to the oil and gas rights and other interests in 
        the subsurface estate of the approximately 275,000 acres of 
        public lands in the State of Alaska identified as ``Koniag 
        Selections'' on the map entitled ``Koniag Interest Lands, Alaska 
        Peninsula'', dated May 1989.

(b) Valuation of Koniag Selection Rights.--
            (1) In general.--Pursuant to paragraph (2) of this 
        subsection, the Secretary shall value the Selection Rights which 
        Koniag possesses within the boundaries of Aniakchak National 
        Monument and Preserve, Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife 
        Refuge, and Becharof National Wildlife Refuge.
            (2) Value.--
                    (A) In general.--The value of the selection rights 
                shall be equal to the fair market value of--
                          (i) the oil and gas interests in the lands or 
                      interests in lands that are the subject of the 
                      selection rights; and
                          (ii) in the case of the lands or interests in 
                      lands for which Koniag is to receive the entire 
                      subsurface estate, the subsurface estate of the 
                      lands or interests in lands that are the subject 
                      of the selection rights.
                    (B) Appraisal.--
                          (i) Selection of appraiser.--
                                    (I) In general.--Not later than 90 
                                days after the date of enactment of this 
                                section the Secretary and Koniag shall 
                                meet to select a qualified appraiser to 
                                conduct an appraisal of the selection 
                                rights. Subject to subclause (II), the 
                                appraiser shall be selected by the 
                                mutual agreement of the 
                                Secretary and Koniag.
                                    (II) Failure to agree.--If the 
                                Secretary and Koniag fail to agree on an 
                                appraiser by the date

[[Page 110 STAT. 4121]]

                                that is 60 days after the date of the 
                                initial meeting referred to in subclause 
                                (I), the Secretary and Koniag shall, by 
                                the date that is not later than 90 days 
                                after the date of the initial meeting, 
                                each designate an appraiser who is 
                                qualified to perform the appraisal. The 
                                2 appraisers so identified shall select 
                                a third qualified appraiser who shall 
                                perform the appraisal.
                          (ii) Standards and methodology.--The appraisal 
                      shall be conducted in conformity with the 
                      standards of the Appraisal Foundation (as defined 
                      in section 1121(9) of the Financial Institutions 
                      Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 
                      U.S.C. 3350(9)).
                          (iii) Submission of appraisal report.--Not 
                      later than 180 days after the selection of an 
                      appraiser pursuant to clause
(i), the appraiser shall submit to the Secretary and to Koniag a written 
appraisal report specifying the value of the selection rights and the 
methodology used to arrive at the value.
                    (C) Determination of value.--
                          (i) Determination by the secretary.--Not later 
                      than 60 days after the date of the receipt of the 
                      appraisal report under subparagraph (B)(iii), the 
                      Secretary shall determine the value of the 
                      selection rights and shall notify Koniag of the 
                      determination.
                          (ii) Alternative determination of value.--
                                    (I) In general.--Subject to 
                                subclause (II), if Koniag does not agree 
                                with the value determined by the 
                                Secretary under clause (i), the 
                                procedures specified in section 206(d) 
                                of the Federal Land Policy and 
                                Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                                1716(d)) shall be used to establish the 
                                value.
                                    (II) Average value limitation.--The 
                                average value per acre of the selection 
                                rights shall not be less than the value 
                                utilizing the risk adjusted discount 
                                cash flow methodology, but in no event 
                                may exceed $300.

    (c) Koniag Account.--
            (1) In general.--(A) The Secretary shall enter into 
        negotiations for an agreement or agreements to exchange Federal 
        lands or interests therein which are in the State of Alaska for 
        the Selection Rights.
            (B) If the value of the Federal property to be exchanged is 
        less than the value of the Selection Rights established in 
        subsection (b), and if such Federal property to be exchanged is 
        not generating receipts to the Federal Government in excess of 
        $1,000,000 per year, then the Secretary may exchange the Federal 
        property for that portion of the Selection Rights having a value 
        equal to that of the Federal property. The remaining selection 
        rights shall remain available for additional exchanges.
            (C) For the purposes of any exchange to be consummated under 
        this section, if less than all the selection rights are being 
        exchanged, then the value of the selection rights being 
        exchanged shall be equal to the number of acres of selection 
        rights being exchanged multiplied by a fraction, the numerator 
        of which is the value of all the selection rights as determined

[[Page 110 STAT. 4122]]

        pursuant to subsection (b) hereof and the denominator of which 
        is the total number of acres of selection rights.
            (2) Additional exchanges.--If, after 10 years from the date 
        of the enactment of this section, the Secretary was unable to 
        conclude such exchanges as may be required to acquire all of the 
        selection rights, he shall conclude exchanges for the remaining 
        selection rights for such Federal property as may be identified 
        by Koniag, which property is available for transfer to the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary under any provision 
        of law and which property, at the time of the proposed transfer 
        to Koniag is not generating receipts of the Federal Government 
        in excess of $1,000,000 per year. The Secretary shall keep 
        Koniag advised in a timely manner as to which properties may be 
        available for such transfer. Upon receipt of such identification 
        by Koniag, the Secretary shall request in a timely manner the 
        transfer of such identified property to the administrative 
        jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior. Such property 
        shall not be subject to the geographic limitations of section 
        206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and may be 
        retained by the 
        Secretary solely for purposes of transferring it to Koniag to 
        complete the exchange. Should the value of the property so 
        identified by Koniag be in excess of the value of the remaining 
        selection rights, then Koniag shall have the option of (A) 
        declining to proceed with the exchange and identifying other 
        property, or (B) paying the difference in value between the 
        property rights.
            (3) Revenues.--Any property received by Koniag in an 
        exchange entered into pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) shall be 
        deemed to be an interest in the subsurface for purposes of 
        section 7(i) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1601 et seq.): Provided however, That should Koniag make 
        a payment to equalize the value in any such exchange, then 
        Koniag will be deemed to hold an undivided interest in the 
        property equal in value to such payment which interest shall not 
        be subject to the provisions of section 7(i) of that Act.

    (d) Authority To Appoint and Remove Trustee.--In establishing a 
Settlement Trust under section 39 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1629c), Koniag may delegate, in whole or in part, the 
authority granted to Koniag under subsection (b)(2) of such section to 
any entity that Koniag may select without affecting the status of the 
trust as a Settlement Trust under such section.

SEC. 304. SNOWBASIN LAND EXCHANGE ACT.

    (a) Purpose and Intent.--The purpose of this section is to authorize 
and direct the Secretary to exchange 1,320 acres of federally-owned land 
within the Cache National Forest in the State of Utah for lands 
approximately equal value owned by the Sun Valley Company. It is the 
intent of Congress that this exchange be completed without delay within 
the period specified by subsection (d).
    (b) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) The term ``Sun Valley Company'' means the Sun Valley 
        Company, a division of Sinclair Oil Corporation, a Wyoming 
        Corporation, or its successors or assigns.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4123]]

            (2) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
        Agriculture.

    (c) Exchange.--
            (1) Federal selected lands.--(A) Not later than 45 days 
        after the final determination of value of the Federal selected 
        lands, the Secretary shall, subject to this section, transfer 
        all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
        the lands referred to in subparagraph (B) to the Sun Valley 
        Company.
            (B) The lands referred to in subparagraph (A) are certain 
        lands within the Cache National Forest in the State of Utah 
        comprising 1,320 acres, more or less, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Snowbasin Land Exchange--Proposed'' and dated 
        October 1995.
            (2) Non-federal offered lands.--Upon transfer of the Federal 
        selected lands under paragraph (1), and in exchange for those 
        lands, the Sun Valley Company shall simultaneously convey to the 
        Secretary all right, title and interest of the Sun Valley 
        Company in and to so much of the following offered lands which 
        have been previously identified by the United States Forest 
        Service as desirable by the United States, or which are 
        identified pursuant to subparagraph (E) prior to the transfer of 
        lands under paragraph (1), as are of approximate equal value to 
        the Federal selected lands:
                    (A) Certain lands located within the exterior 
                boundaries of the Cache National Forest in Weber County, 
                Utah, which comprise approximately 640 acres and are 
                generally depicted on a map entitled ``Lightning Ridge 
                Offered Lands'', dated October 1995.
                    (B) Certain lands located within the Cache National 
                Forest in Weber County, Utah, which comprise 
                approximately 635 acres and are generally depicted on a 
                map entitled ``Wheeler Creek Watershed Offered Lands--
                Section 2'' dated October 1995.
                    (C) Certain lands located within the exterior 
                boundaries of the Cache National Forest in Weber County, 
                Utah, and lying immediately adjacent to the outskirts of 
                the City of Ogden, Utah, which comprise approximately 
                800 acres and are generally depicted on a map entitled 
                ``Taylor Canyon Offered Lands'', dated October 1995.
                    (D) Certain lands located within the exterior 
                boundaries of the Cache National Forest in Weber County, 
                Utah, which comprise approximately 2,040 acres and are 
                generally depicted on a map entitled ``North Fork Ogden 
                River--Devil's Gate Valley'', dated October 1995.
                    (E) Such additional offered lands in the State of 
                Utah as may be necessary to make the values of the lands 
                exchanged pursuant to this section approximately equal, 
                and which are acceptable to the Secretary.
            (3) Substitution of offered lands.--If one or more of the 
        precise offered land parcels identified in subparagraphs (A) 
        through (D) of paragraph (2) is unable to be conveyed to the 
        United States due to appraisal or other reasons, or if the 
        Secretary and the Sun Valley Company mutually agree and the 
        Secretary determines that an alternative offered land package 
        would better serve long-term public needs and objectives, the 
        Sun Valley Company may simultaneously convey

[[Page 110 STAT. 4124]]

        to the United States alternative offered lands in the State of 
        Utah acceptable to the Secretary in lieu of any or all of the 
        lands identified in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of 
        paragraph (2).
            (4) Valuation and appraisals.--(A) Values of the lands to be 
        exchanged pursuant to this section shall be equal as determined 
        by the Secretary utilizing nationally recognized appraisal 
        standards and in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976. The appraisal reports shall 
        be written to Federal standards as defined in the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions. If, due to 
        size, location, or use of lands exchanged under this section, 
        the values are not exactly equal, they shall be equalized by the 
        payment of cash equalization money to the Secretary or the Sun 
        Valley Company as appropriate in accordance with section 206(b) 
        of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716(b)). In order to expedite the consummation of the exchange 
        directed by this section, the Sun Valley Company shall arrange 
        and pay for appraisals of the offered and selected lands by a 
        qualified appraiser with experience in appraising similar 
        properties and who is mutually acceptable to the Sun Valley 
        Company and the Secretary. The appraisal of the Federal selected 
        lands shall be completed and submitted to the Secretary for 
        technical review and approval no later than 120 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, and the Secretary shall make a 
        determination of value not later than 30 days after receipt of 
        the appraisal. In the event the Secretary and the Sun Valley 
        Company are unable to agree to the appraised value of a certain 
        tract or tracts of land, the appraisal, appraisals, or appraisal 
        issues in dispute and a final determination of value shall be 
        resolved through a process of bargaining or submission to 
        arbitration in accordance with section 206(d) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(d)).
            (B) In order to expedite the appraisal of the Federal 
        selected lands, such appraisal shall--
                    (i) value the land in its unimproved state, as a 
                single entity for its highest and best use as if in 
                private ownership and as of the date of enactment of 
                this Act;
                    (ii) consider the Federal lands as an independent 
                property as though in the private marketplace and 
                suitable for development to its highest and best use;
                    (iii) consider in the appraisal any encumbrance on 
                the title anticipated to be in the conveyance to Sun 
                Valley Company and reflect its effect on the fair market 
                value of the property; and
                    (iv) not reflect any enhancement in value to the 
                Federal selected lands based on the existence of private 
                lands owned by the Sun Valley Company in the vicinity of 
                the Snowbasin Ski Resort, and shall assume that private 
                lands owned by the Sun Valley Company are not available 
                for use in conjunction with the Federal selected lands.

    (d) General Provisions Relating to the Exchange.--
            (1) In general.--The exchange authorized by this section 
        shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
                    (A) Reserved rights-of-way.--In any deed issued 
                pursuant to subsection (c)(1), the Secretary shall 
                reserve

[[Page 110 STAT. 4125]]

                in the United States a right of reasonable access across 
                the conveyed property for public access and for 
                administrative purposes of the United States necessary 
                to manage adjacent federally-owned lands. The terms of 
                such reservation shall be prescribed by the Secretary 
                within 30 days after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act.
                    (B) Right of rescission.--This section shall not be 
                binding on either the United States or the Sun Valley 
                Company if, within 30 days after the final determination 
                of value of the Federal selected lands, the Sun Valley 
                Company submits to the Secretary a duly authorized and 
                executed resolution of the Company stating its intention 
                not to enter into the exchange authorized by this 
                section.
            (2) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, effective 
        on the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal selected lands 
        described in subsection (c)(1) and all National Forest System 
        lands currently under special use permit to the Sun Valley 
        Company at the Snowbasin Ski Resort are hereby withdrawn from 
        all forms of appropriation under the public land laws (including 
        the mining laws) and from disposition under all laws pertaining 
        to mineral and geothermal leasing.
            (3) Deed.--The conveyance of the offered lands to the United 
        States under this section shall be by general warranty or other 
        deed acceptable to the Secretary and in conformity with 
        applicable title standards of the Attorney General of the United 
        States.
            (4) Status of lands.--Upon acceptance of title by the 
        Secretary, the land conveyed to the United States pursuant to 
        this section shall become part of the Wasatch or Cache National 
        Forests as appropriate, and the boundaries of such National 
        Forests shall be adjusted to encompass such lands. Once 
        conveyed, such lands shall be managed in accordance with the Act 
        of March 1, 1911, as amended (commonly known as the ``Weeks 
        Act''), and in accordance with the other laws, rules and 
        regulations applicable to National Forest System lands. This 
        paragraph does not limit the Secretary's authority to adjust the 
        boundaries pursuant to section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1911 
        (``Weeks Act''). For the purposes of section 7 of the Land and 
        Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the 
        boundaries of the Wasatch and Cache National Forests, as 
        adjusted by this section, shall be considered to be boundaries 
        of the forests as of January 1, 1965.

    (e) Phase Facility Construction and Operation.--
            (1) Phase i facility finding and review.--(A) The 
        Congress has reviewed the Snowbasin Ski Area Master Development 
        Plan dated October 1995 (hereafter in this subsection referred 
        to as the ``Master Plan''). On the basis of such review, and 
        review of previously completed environmental and other resource 
        studies for the Snowbasin Ski Area, Congress hereby finds that 
        the ``Phase I'' facilities referred to in the Master Plan to be 
        located on National Forest System land after consummation of the 
        land exchange directed by this section are limited in size and 
        scope, are reasonable and necessary to accommodate the 2002 
        Olympics, and in some cases are required to provide for the 
        safety of skiing competitors and spectators.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4126]]

            (B) Within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary and the Sun Valley Company shall review the Master 
        Plan insofar as such plan pertains to Phase I facilities which 
        are to be constructed and operated wholly or partially on 
        National Forest System lands retained by the Secretary after 
        consummation of the land exchange directed by this section. The 
        Secretary may modify such Phase I facilities upon mutual 
        agreement with the Sun Valley Company or by imposing conditions 
        pursuant to paragraph (2) of this 
        subsection.
            (C) Within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall submit the reviewed Master Plan on the Phase 
        I facilities, including any modifications made thereto pursuant 
        to subparagraph (B), to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the United States Senate and the Committee on 
        Resources of the United States House of 
        Representatives for a 30-day review period. At the end of the 
        30-day period, unless otherwise directed by Act of Congress, the 
        Secretary may issue all necessary authorizations for 
        construction and operation of such facilities or modifications 
        thereof in accordance with the procedures and provisions of 
        paragraph (2) of this subsection.
            (2) Phase i facility approval, conditions, and 
        timetable.--Within 120 days of receipt of an application by the 
        Sun Valley Company to authorize construction and operation of 
        any particular Phase I facility, facilities, or group of 
        facilities, the Secretary, in consultation with the Sun Valley 
        Company, shall authorize construction and operation of such 
        facility, facilities, or group of facilities, subject to the 
        general policies of the Forest Service pertaining to the 
        construction and operation of ski area facilities on National 
        Forest System lands and subject to reasonable conditions to 
        protect National Forest System resources. In providing 
        authorization to 
        construct and operate a facility, facilities, or group of 
        facilities, the Secretary may not impose any condition that 
        would significantly change the location, size, or scope of the 
        applied for Phase I facility unless--
                    (A) the modification is mutually agreed to by the 
                Secretary and the Sun Valley Company; or
                    (B) the modification is necessary to protect health 
                and safety.
        Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect the 
        Secretary's responsibility to monitor and assure compliance with 
        the conditions set forth in the construction and operation 
        authorization.
            (3) Congressional directions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, Congress finds that consummation of the land 
        exchange directed by this section and all determinations, 
        authorizations, and actions taken by the Secretary pursuant to 
        this section pertaining to Phase I facilities on National Forest 
        System lands, or any modifications thereof, to be 
        nondiscretionary actions authorized and directed by Congress and 
        hence to comply with all procedural and other requirements of 
        the laws of the United States. Such determinations, 
        authorizations, and actions shall not be subject to 
        administrative or judicial review.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4127]]

    (f) No Precedent.--Nothing in subsection (c)(4)(B) of this 
section relating to conditions or limitations on the appraisal of the 
Federal lands, or any provision of subsection (e), relating to the 
approval by the Congress or the Forest Service of facilities on National 
Forest System lands, shall be construed as a precedent for subsequent 
legislation.

SEC. 305. ARKANSAS AND OKLAHOMA LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that:
            (1) The Weyerhaeuser Company has offered to the United 
        States Government an exchange of lands under which Weyerhaeuser 
        would receive approximately 48,000 acres of 
        Federal land in Arkansas and Oklahoma and all mineral interests 
        and oil and gas interests pertaining to these exchanged lands in 
        which the United States Government has an interest in return for 
        conveying to the United States lands owned by Weyerhaeuser 
        consisting of approximately 181,000 acres of forested wetlands 
        and other forest land of public interest in Arkansas and 
        Oklahoma and all mineral interests and all oil and gas interests 
        pertaining to 48,000 acres of these 181,000 acres of exchanged 
        lands in which Weyerhaeuser has an interest, consisting of--
                    (A) certain lands in Arkansas (Arkansas Ouachita 
                lands) located near Poteau Mountain, Caney Creek 
                Wilderness, Lake Ouachita, Little Missouri Wild and 
                Scenic River, Flatside Wilderness and the Ouachita 
                National Forest;
                    (B) certain lands in Oklahoma (Oklahoma lands) 
                located near the McCurtain County Wilderness, the Broken 
                Bow Reservoir, the Glover River, and the Ouachita 
                National Forest; and
                    (C) certain lands in Arkansas (Arkansas Cossatot 
                lands) located on the Little and Cossatot Rivers and 
                identified as the ``Pond Creek Bottoms'' in the Lower 
                Mississippi River Delta section of the North American 
                Waterfowl Management Plan;
            (2) acquisition of the Arkansas Cossatot lands by the United 
        States will remove the lands in the heart of a critical wetland 
        ecosystem from sustained timber production and other 
        development;
            (3) the acquisition of the Arkansas Ouachita lands and the 
        Oklahoma lands by the United States for administration by the 
        Forest Service will provide an opportunity for enhancement of 
        ecosystem management of the National Forest System lands and 
        resources;
            (4) the Arkansas Ouachita lands and the Oklahoma lands have 
        outstanding wildlife habitat and important recreational values 
        and should continue to be made available for activities such as 
        public hunting, fishing, trapping, nature observation, 
        enjoyment, education, and timber management whenever these 
        activities are consistent with applicable Federal laws and land 
        and resource management plans; these lands, especially in the 
        riparian zones, also harbor endangered, threatened and sensitive 
        plants and animals and the conservation and restoration of these 
        areas are important to the recreational and educational public 
        uses and will represent a valuable ecological resource which 
        should be conserved;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4128]]

            (5) the private use of the lands the United States will 
        convey to Weyerhaeuser will not conflict with established 
        management objectives on adjacent Federal lands;
            (6) the lands the United States will convey to Weyerhaeuser 
        as part of the exchange described in paragraph (1) do not 
        contain comparable fish, wildlife, or wetland values;
            (7) the values of all lands, mineral interests, and oil and 
        gas interests to be exchanged between the United States and 
        Weyerhaeuser are approximately equal in value; and
            (8) the exchange of lands, mineral interests, and oil and 
        gas interests between Weyerhaeuser and the United States is in 
        the public interest.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to authorize and direct 
the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, subject 
to the terms of this title, to complete, as expeditiously as possible, 
an exchange of lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas interests with 
Weyerhaeuser that will provide environmental, land management, 
recreational, and economic benefits to the States of Arkansas and 
Oklahoma and to the United States.
    (c) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) Land.--The terms ``land'' or ``lands'' mean the surface 
        estate and any other interests therein except for mineral 
        interests and oil and gas interests.
            (2) Mineral interests.--The term ``mineral interests'' means 
        geothermal steam and heat and all metals, ores, and minerals of 
        any nature whatsoever, except oil and gas interests, in or upon 
        lands subject to this title including, but not limited to, coal, 
        lignite, peat, rock, sand, gravel, and quartz.
            (3) Oil and gas interests.--The term ``oil and gas 
        interests'' means all oil and gas of any nature, including 
        carbon dioxide, helium, and gas taken from coal seams 
        (collectively ``oil and gas'').
            (4) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (5) Weyerhaeuser.--The term ``Weyerhaeuser'' means 
        Weyerhaeuser Company, a company incorporated in the State of 
        Washington.

    (d) Exchange of Lands and Mineral Interest.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, within 90 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall convey to Weyerhaeuser, subject to any valid 
        existing rights, approximately 20,000 acres of Federal lands and 
        mineral interests in the State of Arkansas and approximately 
        28,000 acres of Federal lands and mineral interests in the State 
        of Oklahoma as depicted on maps entitled ``Arkansas-Oklahoma 
        Land Exchange--Federal Arkansas and Oklahoma Lands,'' dated 
        February 1996 and available for public inspection in appropriate 
        offices of the Secretaries.
            (2) Offer and acceptance of lands.--The Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall make the conveyance to Weyerhaeuser if 
        Weyerhaeuser conveys deeds of title to the United States, 
        subject to limitations and the reservation described in 
        subsection (e) and which are acceptable to and approved by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to the following--
                    (A) approximately 115,000 acres of lands and mineral 
                interests in the State of Oklahoma, as depicted on a map

[[Page 110 STAT. 4129]]

                entitled ``Arkansas-Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser 
                Oklahoma Lands,'' dated February 1996 and available for 
                public inspection in appropriate offices of the 
                Secretaries;
                    (B) approximately 41,000 acres of lands and mineral 
                interests in the State of Arkansas, as depicted on a map 
                entitled ``Arkansas-Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser 
                Arkansas Ouachita Lands,'' dated February 1996 and 
                available for public inspection in appropriate offices 
                of the Secretaries; and
                    (C) approximately 25,000 acres of lands and mineral 
                interests in the State of Arkansas, as depicted on a map 
                entitled ``Arkansas-Oklahoma Land Exchange--Weyerhaeuser 
                Arkansas Cossatot Lands,'' dated February 1996 and 
                available for public inspection in appropriate offices 
                of the Secretaries.

    (e) Exchange of Oil and Gas Interests.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and 
        notwithstanding any other provision of law, at the same time as 
        the exchange for land and mineral interests is carried out 
        pursuant to this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        exchange all Federal oil and gas interests, including leases and 
        other agreements, in the lands described in subsection (d)(1) 
        for equivalent oil and gas interests, including existing leases 
        and other agreements, owned by Weyerhaeuser in the lands 
        described in subsection (d)(2).
            (2) Reservation.--In addition to the exchange of oil and gas 
        interests pursuant to paragraph (1), Weyerhaeuser shall reserve 
        oil and gas interests in and under the lands depicted for 
        reservation upon a map entitled Arkansas-Oklahoma Land 
        Exchange--Weyerhaeuser Oil and Gas Interest Reservation Lands, 
        dated February 1996 and available for public inspection in 
        appropriate offices of the Secretaries. Such reservation shall 
        be subject to the provisions of this title and the form of such 
        reservation shall comply with the jointly agreed to 
        Memorandum of Understanding between the Forest Service and 
        Weyerhaeuser dated March 27, 1996 and on file with the Office of 
        the Chief of the Forest Service in Washington, D.C. and with the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
        Senate and the Committee on Resources of the United States House 
        of Representatives.

    (f) General Provisions.--
            (1) Maps controlling.--The acreage cited in this section is 
        approximate. In the case of a discrepancy between the 
        description of lands, mineral interests, or oil and gas 
        interests to be exchanged pursuant to subsections (d) and (e) 
        and the lands, mineral interests, or oil and gas interests 
        depicted on a map referred to in such subsection, the map shall 
        control. The maps referenced in this section shall be subject to 
        such minor corrections as may be agreed upon by the Secretaries 
        and Weyerhaeuser so long as the Secretary of Agriculture 
        notifies the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        United States Senate and the Committee on Resources of the 
        United States House of Representatives of any such minor 
        corrections.
            (2) Final maps.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        conclusion of the exchange required by subsections (d) and (e), 
        the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4130]]

        Secretaries shall transmit maps accurately depicting the lands, 
        mineral interests, and oil and gas interests conveyed and 
        transferred pursuant to this section and the acreage and 
        boundary descriptions of such lands, mineral interests, and oil 
        and gas interests to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the 
        House of Representatives.
            (3) Cancellation.--If, before the exchange has been carried 
        out pursuant to subsections (d) and (e), Weyerhaeuser provides 
        written notification to the Secretaries that Weyerhauser no 
        longer intends to complete the exchange, with respect to the 
        lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas interests that would 
        otherwise be subject to exchange, the status of such lands, 
        mineral interests, and oil and gas interests shall revert to the 
        status of such lands, mineral interests, and oil and gas 
        interests as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act 
        and shall be managed in accordance with applicable law and 
        management plans.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
        and interests therein depicted for conveyance to Weyerhauser on 
        the maps referenced in subsections (d) and (e) are withdrawn 
        from all forms of entry and appropriation under the public land 
        laws (including the mining laws) and from the operation of 
        mineral leasing and geothermal steam leasing laws effective upon 
        the date of the enactment of this title. Such withdrawal shall 
        terminate 45 days after completion of the exchange provided for 
        in subsections (d) and (e) or on the date of notification by 
        Weyerhauser of a decision not to complete the exchange.

    (g) National Forest System.--
            (1) Addition to the system.--Upon approval and acceptance of 
        title by the Secretary of Agriculture, the 156,000 acres of land 
        conveyed to the United States pursuant to subsection (d)(2) (A) 
        and (B) of this section shall be subject to the Act of March 1, 
        1911 (commonly known as the Weeks Law) (36 Stat. 961, as 
        amended), and shall be administered by the 
        Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the laws and 
        regulations pertaining to the National Forest System.
            (2) Plan amendments.--No later than 12 months after the 
        completion of the exchange required by this section, the 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall begin the process to amend 
        applicable land and resource management plans with public 
        involvement pursuant to section 6 of the Forest and Rangeland 
        Renewable Resource Planning Act of 1974, as amended by the 
        National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1604): 
        Provided, That no amendment or revision of applicable land and 
        resource management plans shall be required prior to completion 
        of the amendment process required by this paragraph for the 
        Secretary of Agriculture to authorize or undertake activities 
        consistent with forest wide standards and guidelines and all 
        other applicable laws and regulations on lands conveyed to the 
        United States pursuant to subsection (d)(2) (A) and (B).

<<NOTE: 16 USC 668dd note.>>     (h) Other.--
            (1) Addition to the national wildlife refuge system.--Once 
        acquired by the United States, the 25,000 acres of land 
        identified in subsection (d)(2)(C), the Arkansas Cossatot lands, 
        shall be managed by the Secretary of the Interior as a 


[[Page 110 STAT. 4131]]

        component of the Cossatot National Wildlife Refuge in accordance 
        with the National Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act of 
        1996 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee).
            (2) Plan preparation.--Within 24 months after the completion 
        of the exchange required by this section, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall prepare and implement a single 
        refuge management plan for the Cossatot National Wildlife 
        Refuge, as expanded by this title. Such plans shall recognize 
        the important public purposes served by the nonconsumptive 
        activities, other recreational activities, and wildlife-related 
        public use, including hunting, fishing, and trapping. The plan 
        shall permit, to the maximum extent practicable, compatible uses 
        to the extent that they are consistent with sound wildlife 
        management and in accordance with the National Wildlife 
        Refuge System Administration Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 668dd-668ee) 
        and other applicable laws. Any regulations promulgated by the 
        Secretary of the Interior with respect to hunting, fishing, and 
        trapping on those lands shall, to the extent practicable, be 
        consistent with State fish and wildlife laws and regulations. In 
        preparing the management plan and regulations, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall consult with the Arkansas Game 
        and Fish Commission.
            (3) Interim use of lands.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) 
                during the period beginning on the date of the 
                completion of the exchange of lands required by this 
                section and ending on the first date of the 
                implementation of the plan prepared under paragraph (2), 
                the Secretary of the Interior shall administer all lands 
                added to the Cossatot National Wildlife Refuge pursuant 
                to this title in accordance with the National Wildlife 
                Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 
                668dd-668ee) and other applicable laws.
                    (B) Hunting seasons.--During the period described in 
                subparagraph (A), the duration of any hunting season on 
                the lands described in paragraph (1) shall comport with 
                the applicable State law.

    (i) Ouachita National Forest Boundary Adjustment.--Upon acceptance 
of title by the Secretary of Agriculture of the lands conveyed to the 
United States pursuant to subsection (d)(2) (A) and (B), the boundaries 
of the Ouachita National Forest shall be adjusted to encompass those 
lands conveyed to the United States generally depicted on the 
appropriate maps referred to in subsection (d). Nothing in this 
subsection shall limit the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to 
adjust the boundary pursuant to section 11 of the Weeks Law of March 1, 
1911. For the purposes of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundaries of the Ouachita 
National Forest, as adjusted by this section, shall be considered to be 
the boundaries of the Forest as of January 1, 1965.
    (j) Maps and Boundary Descriptions.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this title, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
prepare a boundary description of the lands depicted on the map(s) 
referred to in subsection (d)(2) (A) and (B). Such map(s) and boundary 
description shall have the same force and effect as if included in this 
Act, except that the Secretary of Agriculture may correct clerical and 
typographical errors.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4132]]

SEC. 306. BIG THICKET NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    (a) Extension.--The last sentence of subsection (d) of the first 
section of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize the establishment of 
the Big Thicket National Preserve in the State of Texas, and for other 
purposes'', approved October 11, 1974 (16 U.S.C. 698(d)), is amended by 
striking out ``two years after date of enactment'' and inserting ``five 
years after the date of enactment''.
    (b) Independent Appraisal.--Subsection (d) of the first section of 
such Act (16 U.S.C. 698(d)) is further amended by adding at the end the 
following: ``The Secretary, in considering the values of the private 
lands to be exchanged under this subsection, shall consider independent 
appraisals submitted by the owners of the private lands.''
    (c) Limitation.--Subsection (d) of the first section of such Act (16 
U.S.C. 698(d)), as amended by subsection (b), is further amended by 
adding at the end the following: ``The authority to exchange lands under 
this subsection shall expire on July 1, 1998.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 698 note.>>     (d) Reporting Requirement.--Not later 
than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 6 
months thereafter until the earlier of the consummation of the exchange 
of July 1, 1998, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall each submit a report to the Committee on Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate concerning the progress in consummating the land 
exchange authorized by the amendments made by the Big Thicket National 
Preserve Addition Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-46).

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698 note.>>     (e) Land Exchange in Liberty County, 
Texas.--If, within one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act--
            (1) the owners of the private lands described in subsection 
        (f)(1) offer to transfer all their right, title, and interest in 
        and to such lands to the Secretary of the Interior, and
            (2) Liberty County, Texas, agrees to accept the transfer of 
        the Federal lands described in subsection (f)(2),

the Secretary shall accept such offer of private lands and, in exchange 
and without additional consideration, transfer to Liberty County, Texas, 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
Federal lands described in subsection (f)(2).
<<NOTE: 16 USC 698 note.>>     (f) Lands Described.--
            (1) Private lands.--The private lands described in this 
        paragraph are approximately 3.76 acres of lands located in 
        Liberty County, Texas, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Big Thicket Lake Estates Access--Proposed''.
            (2) Federal lands.--The Federal lands described in this 
        paragraph are approximately 2.38 acres of lands located in 
        Menard Creek Corridor Unit of the Big Thicket National 
        Preserve, as generally depicted on the map referred to in 
        paragraph (1).

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698 note.>>     (g) Administration of Lands Acquired by 
the United States.--The lands acquired by the Secretary under subsection 
(e) shall be added to and administered as part of the Menard Creek 
Corridor Unit of the Big Thicket National Preserve.

SEC. 307. LOST CREEK LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Land Exchange.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4133]]

            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
        the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Secretary'') shall--
                    (A) acquire by exchange certain land and interests 
                in land owned by R-Y Timber, Inc., and its affiliates, 
                successors, and assigns (referred to in this section as 
                the ``Corporation''), located in the Lost Creek and Twin 
                Lakes areas of the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest, 

                Montana; and
                    (B)(i) convey certain land and interests in land 
                owned by the United States and located in the 
                Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest and the Gallatin 
                National 
                Forest, Montana, to the Corporation; and
                    (ii) grant the right to harvest timber on land in 
                the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest and the 
                Gallatin National Forest as specified in the document 
                under paragraph (4).
            (2) Offer and acceptance of land.--
                    (A) Non-federal land.--If the Corporation offers to 
                convey to the United States fee title that is acceptable 
                to the Secretary to approximately 17,567 acres of land 
                owned by the Corporation and available for exchange, as 
                depicted on the map entitled ``R-Y/Forest Service Land 
                Exchange Proposal'', dated June 1996, and described in 
                the document under paragraph (4), the Secretary shall 
                accept a warranty deed to the land.
                    (B) Federal land.--
                          (i) Conveyance.--On acceptance of title to the 
                      Corporation's land under subparagraph (A) and on 
                      the effective date of the document under paragraph 
                      (4), the Secretary shall--
                                    (I) convey to the Corporation, 
                                subject to valid existing rights, by 
                                exchange deed, fee title to 
                                approximately 7,185 acres in the 
                                Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest; 
                                and
                                    (II) grant to the Corporation the 
                                right to harvest approximately 6,200,000 
                                board feet of timber on certain land in 
                                the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National Forest 
                                and approximately 4,000,000 board feet 
                                of timber on certain land in the 
                                Gallatin National Forest, collectively 
                                referred to as the harvest volume, as 
                                depicted on the map described in 
                                subparagraph (A) and subject to the 
                                terms and conditions stated in the 
                                document under paragraph (4).
            (3) Timber harvesting.--
                    (A) In general.--The timber harvest volume described 
                in paragraph (2)(B)(i)(II) is in addition to, and is not 
                intended as an offset against, the present or future 
                planned timber sale program for the Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
                National Forest or the Gallatin National Forest, so long 
                as the allowable sale quantity for each national forest, 
                respectively, is not exceeded for the planning period.
                    (B) SBA share.--The Forest Service shall not reduce 
                its Small Business Administration share of timber sale 
                set-aside offerings in the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National

[[Page 110 STAT. 4134]]

                Forest or the Gallatin National Forest by reason of the 
                land exchange under this subsection.
                    (C) Minimum and maximum annual harvests.--
                          (i) In general.-- Subject to clause (ii)--
                                    (I) not less than 20 nor more than 
                                30 percent of the timber described in 
                                paragraph (2)(B)(i)(II) shall be made 
                                available by the end of each fiscal year 
                                over a 4- or 5-year period beginning 
                                with the first fiscal year that begins 
                                after the date of enactment of this Act; 
                                and
                                    (II) the Corporation shall be 
                                allowed at least 3 years after the end 
                                of each fiscal year in which to complete 
                                the harvest of timber made available for 
                                that fiscal year.
                          (ii) Exceptional circumstances.--The timber 
                      harvest volumes specified in clause (i) shall not 
                      be required in the case of the occurrence of 
                      exceptional circumstances identified in the 
                      agreement under 
                      paragraph (4). In the case of such an occurrence 
                      that results in the making available of less than 
                      20 percent of the timber for any fiscal year, the 
                      Secretary shall provide compensation of equal 
                      value to the Corporation in a form provided for in 
                      the agreement under paragraph (4).
            (4) Land exchange specification agreement.--
                    (A) In general.-- Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, a document entitled ``R-Y/Forest 
                Service Land Exchange Specifications'' shall be jointly 
                developed and agreed to by the Corporation and the 
                Secretary.
                    (B) Descriptions of lands to be exchanged.--The 
                document under subparagraph (A) shall define the non-
                Federal and Federal lands and interests in land to be 
                exchanged and include legal descriptions of the lands 
                and interests in land and an agreement to harvest timber 
                on National Forest System land in accordance with the 
                standard timber contract specifications, section 251.14 
                of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect 
                on the date of enactment of this Act), and any other 
                pertinent conditions.
                    (C) Submission to congress.--The document under 
                subparagraph (A)--
                          (i) upon its completion shall be submitted to 
                      the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
                      the Senate and the Committee on Resources of the 
                      House of Representatives; and
                          (ii) shall not take effect until 45 days after 
                      the date of submission to both committees.
                    (D) Design and layout.--
                          (i) In general.--The Forest Service shall 
                      determine the timber sale design and layout in 
                      consultation with the Corporation.
                          (ii) Harvest volume.--Identification of the 
                      timber harvest volume shall be determined in 
                      accordance with Department of Agriculture 
                      standards.
                          (iii) Monitoring.--The Forest Service shall 
                      monitor harvest and post-harvest
activities to ensure

[[Page 110 STAT. 4135]]

compliance with the terms and conditions of the document under 
subparagraph (A).
            (5) Conflict.--In case of conflict between the map described 
        in paragraph (2)(A) and the document under paragraph (4), the 
        map shall control.

    (b) Title.--
            (1) Review of title.--Not later than 60 days after receipt 
        of title documents from the Corporation, the Secretary shall 
        review the title for the non-Federal land described in 
        subsection (a)(2)(A) and determine whether--
                    (A) title standards of the Department of Justice 
                applicable to Federal land acquisition have been 
                satisfied or the quality of title is otherwise 
                acceptable to the 
                Secretary;
                    (B) all draft conveyances and closing documents have 
                been received and approved;
                    (C) a current title commitment verifying compliance 
                with applicable title standards has been issued to the 
                Secretary; and
                    (D) the Corporation has complied with the conditions 
                imposed by this section.
            (2) Unacceptable quality of title.--If the quality of title 
        does not meet Federal standards and is not otherwise acceptable 
        to the Secretary, the Secretary shall advise the Corporation 
        regarding corrective actions necessary to make an affirmative 
        determination.
            (3) Conveyance of title.--The Secretary shall accept the 
        conveyance of land described in subsection (a)(2)(A) not later 
        than 60 days after the Secretary has made an affirmative 
        determination of quality of title.

    (c) General Provisions.--
            (1) Maps and documents.--
                    (A) In general.--The map described in subsection 
                (a)(2)(A) and the document under subsection (a)(4) shall 
                be subject to such minor corrections may be agreed upon 
                by the Secretary and the Corporation.
                    (B) Publc availability.--The map described in 
                subsection (a)(2)(A) and the document under subsection 
                (a)(4) shall be on file and available for public 
                inspection in the appropriate offices for the Forest 
                Service.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4136]]

            (2) National forest system land.--

                    (A) In general.--All land conveyed to the United 
                States under this section shall be added to and 
                administered as part of the Beaverhead-Deerlodge 
                National Forest and shall be administered by the 
                Secretary in accordance with the laws (including 
                regulations) pertaining to the National Forest System.

                    (B) Wilderness study area acquisitions.--Land 
                acquired under this section that is located within the 
                boundary of a wilderness area in existence on the date 
                of enactment of this Act shall be included within the 
                National Wilderness Preservation System.

            (3) Valuation.--The values of the lands and interests in 
        land to be exchanged under this section are deemed to be equal.

            (4) Liability for hazardous substances.--The United States 
        (including the departments, agencies, and employees of the 
        United States) shall not be liable under the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the Federal Water Pollution Control 
        Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.), or any other Federal, State, or 
        local law solely as a result of the acquisition of an interest 
        in the land described in subsection (a)(2)(A) or because of 
        circumstances or events occurring before the acquisition, 
        including
any release or threat of release of a hazardous substance.

            (5) Release from study.--The land comprising approximately 
        1.320 acres in the Beaverhead-Deerlodge National 
        Forest, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``West Pioneer 
        Study Deletion--Proposed'', dated 1994, is released from study 
        under section 2(a)(1) of the Montana Wilderness Study Act of 
        1977 (91 Stat. 1243).

SEC. 308. CLEVELAND NATIONAL FOREST LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Conveyance by the Secretary of Agriculture.--

            (1) Conveyance.--In exchange for the conveyance described in 
        subsection (b), the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter 
        referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall convey to the Orange 
        County Council of the Boy Scouts of America all right, title, 
        and interest of the United States in and to the parcel of land 
        described in paragraph (2) located in the Cleveland National 
        Forest. The parcel conveyed by the Secretary shall be subject to 
        valid existing rights and to any easements that the Secretary 
        considers necessary for public and administrative access.

            (2) Description of parcel.--The parcel of land referred to 
        in paragraph (1) consists of not more than 60 acres of land in 
        Section 28, Township 9 South, Range 4 East, San Bernardino 
        Meridian, in the unincorporated territory of San Diego County, 
        California.

    (b) Conveyance by the Boy Scouts of America.--

            (1) Conveyance.--In exchange for the conveyance described in 
        subsection (a), the Orange County Council of the Boy Scouts of 
        America shall convey to the United States all right, title, and 
        interest to the parcel of land described in paragraph (2). The 
        parcel conveyed under this subsection shall

[[Page 110 STAT. 4137]]

        be subject to such valid existing rights of record as may be 
        acceptable to the Secretary, and the title to the parcel shall 
        conform with the title approval standards applicable to Federal 
        land acquisitions.
            (2) Description of parcel.--The parcel of land referred to 
        in paragraph (1) shall be approximately equal in value to the 
        lands described in subsection (a)(2) and shall be at least the 
        Southerly 94 acres of the Westerly \1/2\ of Section 34, Township 
        9 South, Range 4 East, San Bernardino Meridian, in the 
        unincorporated territory of San Diego County, California.

    (c) Boundary Adjustment.--Upon the completion of the land exchange 
authorized under this section, the Secretary shall adjust the boundaries 
of the Cleveland National Forest to exclude the parcel conveyed by the 
Secretary under subsection (a) and to include the parcel obtained by the 
Secretary under subsection (b). For purposes of section 7 of the Land 
and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1964 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9), the boundary 
of the Cleveland National Forest, as modified by this title, shall be 
considered the boundary of the forest as of January 1, 1965.
    (d) Incorporation Into Cleveland National Forest.--Upon acceptance 
of title by the Secretary, the parcel obtained by the Secretary under 
subsection (b) shall become part of the Cleveland National Forest and 
shall be subject to all laws applicable to such national forest.

SEC. 309. SAND HOLLOW LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Water 
        Conservancy District of Washington County, Utah.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Bulloch site.--The term ``Bulloch Site'' means the lands 
        located in Kane County, Utah, adjacent to Zion National Park, 
        comprised of approximately 550 acres, as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Washington County Water Conservancy District 
        Exchange Proposal'' and dated May 30, 1996.
            (4) Sand hollow site.--The term ``Sand Hollow Site'' means 
        the lands located in Washington County, Utah, Comprised of 
        approximately 3,000 acres, as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Washington County Water Conservancy District Exchange 
        Proposal'' and dated May 30, 1996.
            (5) Quail creek pipeline.--The term ``Quail Creek 
        Pipeline'' means the lands located in Washington County, Utah, 
        comprised of approximately 40 acres, as generally depicted on a 
        map entitled ``Washington County Water Conservancy District 
        Exchange Proposal'' and dated May 30, 1996.
            (6) Quail creek reservoir.--The term ``Quail Creek 
        Reservoir'' means the lands located in Washington County, Utah, 
        comprised of approximately 480.5 acres, as generally depicted on 
        a map entitled ``Washington County Water Conservancy District 
        Exchange Proposal'' and dated May 30, 1996.
            (7) Smith property.--The term ``Smith Property'' means the 
        lands located in Washington County, Utah, comprised of 
        approximately 1,550 acres as generally depicted on a map 
        entitled ``Washington County Water Conservancy District Exchange 
        Proposal'' and dated May 30, 1996.

    (b) Exchange.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4138]]

            (1) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this section, 
        if within 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        the Water Conservancy District of Washington County, Utah, 
        offers to transfer to the United States all right, title, and 
        interest of the District in and to the Bulloch Site, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall, in exchange, transfer to the 
        District all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
        and to the Sand Hollow Site, the Quail Creek Pipeline and Quail 
        Creek Reservoir, subject to valid existing rights.
            (2) Water rights associated with the bulloch site.--The 
        water rights associated with the Bulloch Site shall be 
        transferred to the United States pursuant to Utah State law.
            (3) Withdrawal of mineral interests.--Subject to valid 
        existing rights, the mineral interests underlying the Sand 
        Hollow Site, the Quail Creek Reservoir, and the Quail Creek 
        Pipeline are hereby withdrawn from disposition under the public 
        land laws and from location, entry, and patent under the mining 
        laws of the United States, from the operation of the mineral 
        leasing laws of the United States, from the operation of the 
        Geothermal Steam Act of 1970, and from the operation of the Act 
        of July 31, 1947, commonly known as the ``Materials Act of 
        1947'' (30 U.S.C. 601 et seq.).
            (4) Grazing.--The exchange of lands under paragraph (1) 
        shall be subject to agreement by the District to continue to 
        permit the grazing of domestic livestock on the Sand Hollow Site 
        under the terms and conditions of existing Federal grazing 
        leases or permits, except that the District, upon terminating 
        any such lease or permit, shall fully compensate the holder of 
        the terminated lease or permit.

    (c) Equalization of Values.--The value of the lands transferred out 
of Federal ownership under subsection (b) either shall be equal to the 
value of the lands received by the Secretary under that section or, if 
not, shall be equalized by--
            (1) to the extent possible, transfer of all right, title, 
        and interest of the District in and to lands in Washington 
        County, Utah, and water rights of the District associated 
        thereto, 
        which are within the area providing habitat for the desert 
        tortoise, as determined by the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management;
            (2) transfer of all right, title, and interest of the 
        District in and to lands in the Smith Site and water rights of 
        the District associated thereto; and
            (3) the payment of money to the Secretary, to the extent 
        that lands and rights transferred under paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        are not sufficient to equalize the values of the lands exchanged 
        under subsection (b)(1).

    (d) Management of Lands Acquired by the United States.--Lands 
acquired by the Secretary under this section shall be administered by 
the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
Management, in accordance with the provisions of law generally 
applicable to the public lands, including the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (e) National Environmental Policy Act of 1976.--The exchange of 
lands under this section is not subject to section 102 of the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4322).
    (f) Valuation of Lands To Be Acquired by the United States in 
Washington County, Utah.--In acquiring any lands

[[Page 110 STAT. 4139]]

and any interests in lands in Washington County, Utah, by purchase, 
exchange, donation or other transfers of interest, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall appraise, value, and offer to acquire 
such lands and interests without regard to the presence of a species 
listed as threatened or endangered or any proposed or actual designation 
of such property as critical habitat for a species listed as threatened 
or endangered pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1531 et seq.).
SEC. 310. BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT AUTHORIZATION FOR 
                        FISCAL YEARS 1997 THROUGH 2002.

    Section 318(a) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1748(a)) is amended by striking out ``October 1, 1978'' and 
by inserting in lieu thereof ``October 1, 2002''.

<<NOTE: Kenai Natives Association Equity Act Amendments of 1996. 43 USC 
            1784 note.>> SEC. 311. KENAI NATIVES ASSOCIATION LAND 
            EXCHANGE.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Kenai Natives 
Association Equity Act Amendments of 1996''.
    (b) Findings and Purpose.--
            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds the following:
                    (A) The United States Fish and Wildlife Service and 
                Kenai Natives Association, Inc., have agreed to 
                transfers of certain land rights, in and near the Kenai 
                National Wildlife Refuge, negotiated as directed by 
                Public Law 
                102-458.
                <<NOTE: Exxon Valdez.>>     (B) The lands to be acquired 
                by the Service are within the area impacted by the Exxon 
                Valdez oil spill of 1989, and these lands included 
                important habitat for various species of fish and 
                wildlife for which significant injury resulting from the 
                spill has been documented through the EVOS Trustee 
                Council restoration process. This analysis has indicated 
                that these lands generally have value for the 
                restoration of such injured natural resources as pink 
                salmon, dolly varden, bald eagles, river otters, and 
                cultural and archaeological resources. This analysis has 
                also indicated that these lands generally have high 
                value for the restoration of injured species that rely 
                on these natural resources, including wilderness 
                quality, recreation, tourism, and subsistence.
                    (C) Restoration of the injured species will benefit 
                from acquisition and the prevention of disturbances 
                which may adversely affect their recovery.
                    (D) It is in the public interest to complete the 
                conveyances provided for in this section.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to authorize 
        and direct the Secretary, at the election of KNA, to complete 
        the conveyances provided for in this section.

    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the term--
            (1) ``ANCSA'' means the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
        of 1971 (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.);
            (2) ``ANILCA'' means the Alaska National Interest Lands 
        Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487; 94 Stat. 2371 et seq.);
            (3) ``conservation system unit'' has the same meaning as in 
        section 102(4) of ANILCA (16 U.S.C. 3102(4));
            (4) ``CIRI'' means the Cook Inlet Region, Inc., a Native 
        Regional Corporation incorporated in the State of Alaska 
        pursuant to the terms of ANCSA;
            (5) ``EVOS'' means the Exxon Valdez oil spill;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4140]]

            (6) ``KNA'' means the Kenai Natives Association, Inc., an 
        urban corporation incorporated in the State of Alaska pursuant 
        to the terms of ANCSA;
            (7) ``lands'' means any lands, waters, or interests therein;
            (8) ``Refuge'' means the Kenai National Wildlife Refuge;
            (9) ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the Interior;
            (10) ``Service'' means the United States Fish and Wildlife 
        Service; and
            (11) ``Terms and Conditions'' means the Terms and Conditions 
        for Land Consolidation and Management in the Cook Inlet Area, as 
        clarified on August 31, 1976, ratified by section 12 of Public 
        Law 94-204 (43 U.S.C. 1611 note).

    (d) Acquisition of Lands.--
            (1) Offer to kna.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the availability of the 
                funds identified in paragraph (2)(C), no later than 90 
                days after the date of enactment of this section, the 
                Secretary shall offer to convey to KNA the interests in 
                land and rights set forth in paragraph (2)(B), subject 
                to valid existing rights, in return for the conveyance 
                by KNA to the United States of the interests in land or 
                relinquishment of ANCSA selections set forth in 
                paragraph (2)(A). Payment for the lands conveyed to the 
                United States by KNA is contingent upon KNA's acceptance 
                of the entire conveyance outlined herein.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Secretary may not convey any 
                lands or make payment to KNA under this section unless 
                title to the lands to be conveyed by KNA under this 
                section has been found by the United States to be 
                sufficient in accordance with the provisions of section 
                355 of the Revised Statutes (40 U.S.C. 255).
            (2) Acquisition lands.--
                    (A) Lands to be conveyed to the united states.--The 
                lands to be conveyed by KNA to the United States, or the 
                valid selection rights under ANCSA to be relinquished, 
                all situated within the boundary of the Refuge, are the 
                following:
                          (i) The conveyance of approximately 803 acres 
                      located along and on islands within the Kenai 
                      River, known as the Stephanka Tract.
                          (ii) The conveyance of approximately 1,243 
                      acres located along the Moose River, known as the 
                      Moose River Patented Lands Tract.
                          (iii) The relinquishment of KNA's selection 
                      known as the Moose River Selected Tract, 
                      containing approximately 753 acres located along 
                      the Moose River.
                          (iv) The relinquishment of KNA's remaining 
                      ANCSA entitlement of approximately 454 acres.
                          (v) The relinquishment of all KNA's remaining 
                      overselections. Upon completion of all 
                      relinquishments outlined above, all KNA's 
                      entitlement shall be deemed to be extinguished and 
                      the completion of this acquisition will satisfy 
                      all of KNA's ANCSA entitlement.
                          (vi) The conveyance of an access easement 
                      providing the United States and its assigns access 
                      across KNA's surface estate in the SW\1/4\ of 
                      section 21, T. 6 N., R. 9 W., Seward Meridian, 
                      Alaska.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4141]]

                          (vii) The conveyance of approximately 100 
                      acres within the Beaver Creek Patented Tract, 
                      which is contiguous to lands being retained by the 
                      United States contiguous to the Beaver Creek 
                      Patented Tract, in exchange for 280 acres of 
                      Service lands currently 
                      situated within the Beaver Creek Selected Tract.
                    (B) Lands to be conveyed to kna.--The rights 
                provided or lands to be conveyed by the United States to 
                KNA, are the following:
                          (i) The surface and subsurface estate to 
                      approximately 5 acres, subject to reservations of 
                      easements for existing roads and utilities, 
                      located within the city of Kenai, Alaska, 
                      identified as United States Survey 1435, withdrawn 
                      by Executive Order 2943 and known as the old Fish 
                      and Wildlife Service Headquarters site.
                          (ii) The remaining subsurface estate held by 
                      the United States to approximately 13,651 acres, 
                      including portions of the Beaver Creek Patented 
                      Tract, the 
                      Beaver Creek Selected Tract, and portions of the 
                      Swanson River Road West Tract and the Swanson 
                      River Road East Tract, where the surface was 
                      previously or will be conveyed to KNA pursuant to 
                      this Act but excluding the SW\1/4\ of section 21, 
                      T. 6 N., R. 9 W, Seward Meridian, Alaska, which 
                      will be retained by the United States. The 
                      conveyance of these subsurface interests will be 
                      subject to the rights of CIRI to the coal, oil, 
                      gas, and to all rights CIRI, its successors, and 
                      assigns would have under paragraph 1(B) of the 
                      Terms and Conditions, including the right to sand 
                      and gravel, to construct facilities, to have 
                      rights-of-way, and to otherwise develop it 
                      subsurface interests.
                          (iii)(I) The nonexclusive right to use sand 
                      and gravel which is reasonably necessary for on-
                      site 
                      development without compensation or permit on 
                      those portions of the Swanson River Road East 
                      Tract, comprising approximately 1,738.04 acres; 
                      where the entire subsurface of the land is 
                      presently owned by the United States. The United 
                      States shall retain the ownership of all other 
                      sand and gravel located within the subsurface and 
                      KNA shall not sell or dispose of such sand and 
                      gravel.
                          (II) The right to excavate within the 
                      subsurface estate as reasonably necessary for 
                      structures, utilities, transportation systems, and 
                      other development of the surface estate.
                          (iv) The nonexclusive right to excavate within 
                      the subsurface estate as reasonably necessary for 
                      structures, utilities, transportation systems, and 
                      other development of the surface estate on the 
                      SW\1/4\, section 21, T. 6 N., R. 9 W., Seward 
                      Meridian, Alaska, where the entire subsurface of 
                      the land is owned by the United States and which 
                      public lands shall continue to be withdrawn from 
                      mining following their removal from the Refuge 
                      boundary under paragraph (3)(A)(ii). The United 
                      States shall retain the ownership of all other 
                      sand and gravel located within the subsurface of 
                      this parcel.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4142]]

                          (v) The surface estate of approximately 280 
                      acres known as the Beaver Creek Selected Tract. 
                      This tract shall be conveyed to KNA in exchange 
                      for lands 
                      conveyed to the United States as described in 
                      paragraph (2)(A)(ii).
                    (C) Payment.--The United States shall make a total 
                cash payment to KNA for the above-described lands of 
                $4,443,000, contingent upon the appropriate approvals of 
                the Federal or State of Alaska EVOS Trustees (or both) 
                necessary for any expenditure of the EVOS settlement 
                funds.
                    (D) National register of historic places.--Upon 
                completion of the acquisition authorized in paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary shall, at no cost to KNA, in 
                coordination with KNA, promptly undertake to nominate 
                the Stephanka Tract to the National Register of Historic 
                Places, in recognition of the archaeological artifacts 
                from the original Dena'ina Settlement. If the Department 
                of the Interior establishes a historical, cultural, or 
                archaeological interpretive site, KNA shall have the 
                exclusive right to operate a Dena'ina interpretive site 
                on the Stephanka Tract under the regulations and 
                policies of the department. If KNA declines to operate 
                such a site, the department may do so under its existing 
                authorities. Prior to the department undertaking any 
                archaeological activities whatsoever on the Stephanka 
                Tract, KNA shall be consulted.
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 668dd note.>>     (3) General provisions.--
                    (A) Removal of kna lands from the national 
                wildlife refuge system.--
                          (i) Effective on the date of closing for the 
                      Acquisition Lands identified in paragraph (2)(B), 
                      all lands retained by or conveyed to KNA pursuant 
                      to this section, and the subsurface interests of 
                      CIRI underlying such lands shall be automatically 
                      removed from the National Wildlife Refuge System 
                      and shall neither be considered as part of the 
                      Refuge nor subject to any laws pertaining solely 
                      to lands within the boundaries of the Refuge. The 
                      conveyance restrictions imposed by section 22(g) 
                      of ANCSA (i) shall then be ineffective and cease 
                      to apply to such interests of KNA and CIRI, and 
                      (ii) shall not be applicable to the interests 
                      received by KNA in accordance with paragraph 
                      (2)(B) or to the CIRI interests underlying them. 
                      The Secretary shall adjust the boundaries of the 
                      Refuge so as to exclude all interests in lands 
                      retained or received in exchange by KNA in 
                      accordance with this section, including both 
                      surface and subsurface, and shall also exclude all 
                      interests currently held by CIRI. On lands within 
                      the Swanson River Road East Tract, the boundary 
                      adjustment shall only include the surface estate 
                      where the subsurface estate is retained by the 
                      United States.
                          (ii)(I) The Secretary, KNA, and CIRI shall 
                      execute an agreement within 45 days of the date of 
                      enactment of this section which preserves CIRI's 
                      rights under paragraph 1(B)(1) of the Terms and 
                      Conditions, addresses CIRI's obligations under 
                      such paragraph,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4143]]

                      and adequately addresses management issues 
                      associated with the boundary adjustment set forth 
                      in this section and with the differing interests 
                      in land 
                      resulting from enactment of this section.
                          (II) In the event that no agreement is 
                      executed as provided for in subclause (I), solely 
                      for the purposes of administering CIRI's rights 
                      under paragraph 1(B)(1) of the Terms and 
                      Conditions, the Secretary and CIRI shall be deemed 
                      to have retained their respective rights and 
                      obligations with respect to CIRI's subsurface 
                      interests under the requirements of the Terms and 
                      Conditions in effect on June 18, 1996. 
                      Notwithstanding the boundary adjustments made 
                      pursuant to this 
                      section, conveyances to KNA shall be deemed to 
                      remain subject to the Secretary's and CIRI's 
                      rights and obligations under paragraph 1(B)(1) of 
                      the Terms and Conditions.
                          (iii) The Secretary is authorized to acquire 
                      by purchase or exchange, on a willing seller basis 
                      only, any lands retained by or conveyed to KNA. In 
                      the event that any lands owned by KNA are 
                      subsequently acquired by the United States, they 
                      shall be automatically included in the Refuge 
                      System. The laws and regulations applicable to 
                      Refuge lands shall then apply to these lands and 
                      the Secretary shall then adjust the boundaries 
                      accordingly.
                          (iv) Nothing in this section is intended to 
                      enlarge or diminish the authorities, rights, 
                      duties, obligations, or the property rights held 
                      by CIRI under the Terms and Conditions, or 
                      otherwise except as set forth in this section. In 
                      the event of the purchase by the United States of 
                      any lands from KNA in accordance with subparagraph 
                      (A)(ii), the United States shall reassume from KNA 
                      the rights it previously held under the Terms and 
                      Conditions and the provisions in any patent 
                      implementing section 22(g) of ANCSA will again 
                      apply.
                          (v) By virtue of implementation of this 
                      section, CIRI is deemed entitled to 1,207 acres of 
                      in-lieu subsurface entitlement under section 
                      12(a)(1) of ANCSA. Such entitlement shall be 
                      fulfilled in accordance with paragraph 1(B)(2)(A) 
                      of the Terms and Conditions.
                    (B) Maps and legal descriptions.--Maps and a legal 
                description of the lands described above shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the United States Department of 
                the Interior, and the Secretary shall, no later than 90 
                days after enactment of this section, prepare a legal 
                description of the lands described in paragraph 
                (2)(A)(vii). Such maps and legal description shall have 
                the same force and effect as if included in the section, 
                except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
                typographical errors.
                    (C) Acceptance.--KNA may accept the offer made in 
                this section by notifying the Secretary in writing of 
                its decision within 180 days of receipt of the offer. In 
                the event the offer is rejected, the Secretary shall 
                notify the Committee on Resources of the House of 
                Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
                Resources

[[Page 110 STAT. 4144]]

                and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the 
                Senate.
                    (D) Final maps.--Not later than 120 days after the 
                conclusion of the acquisition authorized by paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary shall transmit a final report and 
                maps accurately depicting the lands transferred and 
                conveyed pursuant to this section and the acreage and 
                legal descriptions of such lands to the Committee on 
                Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
                Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
                Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>>     (e) Adjustments to National Wilderness 
System.--Upon acquisition of lands by the United States pursuant to 
subsection (d)(2)(A), that portion of the Stephanka Tract lying south 
and west of the Kenai River, consisting of approximately 592 acres, 
shall be included in and managed as part of the Kenai Wilderness and 
such lands shall be managed in accordance with the applicable provisions 
of the Wilderness Act and ANILCA.

    (f) Designation of Lake Todatonten Special Management Area.--
            (1) Purpose.--To balance the potential effects on fish, 
        wildlife, and habitat of the removal of KNA lands from the 
        Refuge System, the Secretary is hereby directed to withdraw, 
        subject to valid existing rights, from location, entry, and 
        patent under the mining laws and to create as a special 
        management unit for the protection of fish, wildlife, and 
        habitat, certain unappropriated and unreserved public lands, 
        totaling approximately 37,000 acres adjacent to the west 
        boundary of the Kanuti National Wildlife Refuge to be know as 
        the ``Lake Todatonten Special Management Area'', as depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Proposed: Lake Todatonten Special Management 
        Area'', dated June 13, 1996, and to be managed by the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
            (2) Management.--
                    (A) Such designation is subject to all valid 
                existing rights as well as the subsistence preferences 
                provided under title VIII of ANILCA. Any lands conveyed 
                to the State of Alaska shall be removed from the Lake 
                Todatonten Special Management Area.
                    (B) The Secretary may permit any additional uses of 
                the area, or grant easements, only to the extent that 
                such use, including leasing under the mineral leasing 
                laws, is determined to not detract from nor materially 
                interfere with the purposes for which the Special 
                Management Area is established.
                    (C)(i) The BLM shall establish the Lake Todatonten 
                Special Management Area Committee. The membership of the 
                Committee shall consist of 11 members as follows:
                          (I) Two residents each from the villages of 
                      Alatna, Allakaket, Hughes, and Tanana.
                          (II) One representative from each of Doyon 
                      Corporation, the Tanana Chiefs Conference, and the 
                      State of Alaska.
                    (ii) Members of the Committee shall serve without 
                pay.
                    (iii) The BLM shall hold meetings of the Lake 
                Todatonten Special Management Area Committee at least

[[Page 110 STAT. 4145]]

                once per year to discuss management issues within the 
                Special Management Area. The BLM shall not allow any new 
                type of activity in the Special Management Area without 
                first conferring with the Committee in a timely manner.
            (3) Access.--The Secretary shall allow the following:
                    (A) Private access for any purpose, including 
                economic development, to lands within the boundaries of 
                the Special Management Area which are owned by third 
                parties or are held in trust by the Secretary for third 
                parties pursuant to the Alaska Native Allotment Act (25 
                U.S.C. 336). Such rights may be subject to restrictions 
                issued by the BLM to protect subsistence uses of the 
                Special Management Area.
                    (B) Existing public access across the Special 
                Management Area. Section 1110(a) of ANILCA shall apply 
                to the Special Management Area.
            (4) Secretarial order and maps.--The Secretary shall file 
        with the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
        Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate, the 
        Secretarial Order and maps setting forth the boundaries of the 
        Area within 90 days of the completion of the acquisition 
        authorized by this section. Once established, this Order may 
        only be amended or revoked by Act of Congress.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out 
        the purposes of this section.

                       TITLE IV--RIVERS AND TRAILS

SEC. 401. RIO PUERCO WATERSHED.

    (a) Management Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management shall--
                    (A) in consultation with the Rio Puerco Management 
                Committee established by subsection (b)--
                          (i) establish a clearinghouse for research and 
                      information on management within the area 
                      identified as the Rio Puerco Drainage Basin, as 
                      depicted on the map entitled ``the Rio Puerco 
                      Watershed'' dated June 1994, including--
                                    (I) current and historical natural 
                                resource conditions; and
                                    (II) data concerning the extent and 
                                causes of watershed impairment; and
                          (ii) establish an inventory of best management 
                      practices and related monitoring activities that 
                      have been or may be implemented within the area 
                      identified as the Rio Puerco Watershed Project, as 
                      depicted on the map entitled ``the Rio Puerco 
                      Watershed'' dated June 1994; and
                    (B) provide support to the Rio Puerco Management 
                Committee to identify objectives, monitor results of 
                ongoing projects, and develop alternative watershed 
                management

[[Page 110 STAT. 4146]]

                plans for the Rio Puerco Drainage Basin, based on best 
                management practices.
            (2) Rio puerco management report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
                Interior, in consultation with the Rio Puerco Management 

                Committee, shall prepare a report for the improvement of 
                watershed conditions in the Rio Puerco Drainage Basis 
                described in paragraph (1)(A).
                    (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall--
                          (i) identify reasonable and appropriate goals 
                      and objectives for landowners and managers in the 
                      Rio Puerco Watershed;
                          (ii) describe potential alternative actions to 
                      meet the goals and objectives, including proven 
                      best management practices and costs associated 
                      with implementing the actions;
                          (iii) recommend voluntary implementation of 
                      appropriate best management practices on public 
                      and private lands;
                          (iv) provide for cooperative development of 
                      management guidelines for maintaining and 
                      improving the ecological, cultural, and economic 
                      conditions on public and private lands;
                          (v) provide for the development of public 
                      participation and community outreach programs that 
                      would include proposals for--
                                    (I) cooperative efforts with private 
                                landowners to encourage implementation 
                                of best management practices within the 
                                watershed; and
                                    (II) involvement of private citizens 
                                in restoring the watershed;
                          (vi) provide for the development of proposals 
                      for voluntary cooperative programs among the 
                      members of the Rio Puerco Management Committee to 
                      implement best management practices in a 
                      coordinated, consistent, and cost-effective 
                      manner;
                          (vii) provide for the encouragement of, and 
                      support implementation of, best management 
                      practices on 
                      private lands; and
                          (viii) provide for the development of 
                      proposals for a monitoring system that--
                                    (I) builds on existing data 
                                available from 
                                private, Federal, and State sources;
                                    (II) provides for the coordinated 
                                collection, evaluation, and 
                                interpretation of additional data as 
                                needed or collected; and
                                    (III) will provide information to 
                                assess existing resource and 
                                socioeconomic conditions; identify 
                                priority implementation actions; and 
                                assess the effectiveness of actions 
                                taken.

    (b) Rio Puerco Management Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Rio Puerco 
        Management Committee (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Committee'').

[[Page 110 STAT. 4147]]

            (2) Membership.--The Committee shall be convened by a 
        representative of the Bureau of Land Management and shall 
        include representatives from--
                    (A) the Rio Puerco Watershed Committee;
                    (B) affected tribes and pueblos;
                    (C) the National Forest Service of the Department of 
                Agriculture;
                    (D) the Bureau of Reclamation;
                    (E) the United States Geological Survey;
                    (F) the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
                    (G) the United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
                    (H) the Army Corps of Engineers;
                    (I) the Natural Resources Conservation Service of 
                the Department of Agriculture;
                    (J) the State of New Mexico, including the New 
                Mexico Environment Department of the State Engineer;
                    (K) affected local soil and water conservation 
                districts;
                    (L) the Elephant Butte Irrigation District;
                    (M) private landowners; and
                    (N) other interested citizens.
            (3) Duties.--The Rio Puerco Management Committee shall--
                    (A) advise the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
                through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
                on the development and implementation of the Rio Puerco 
                Management Program described in subsection (a); and
                    (B) serve as a forum for information about 
                activities that may affect or further the development 
                and implementation of the best management practices 
                described in subsection (a)
            (4) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate on the date 
        that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

    (c) Report.--Not later than the date that is 2 years after the date 
of enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the Secretary of 
the Interior, in consultation with the Rio Puerco Management Committee, 
shall transmit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate and to the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
a report containing--
            (1) a summary of activities of the management program under 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) proposals for joint implementation efforts, including 
        funding recommendations.

    (d) Lower Rio Grande Habitat Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
        cooperation with appropriate State agencies, shall conduct a 
        study of the Rio Grande that--
                    (A) shall cover the distance from Caballo Lake to 
                Sunland Park, New Mexico; and
                    (B) may cover a greater distance.
            (2) Contents.--The study under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) a survey of the current habitat conditions of 
                the river and its riparian environment;
                    (B) identification of the changes in vegetation and 
                habitat over the past 400 years and the effect of the 
                changes on the river and riparian area; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4148]]

                    (C) an assessment of the feasibility, benefits, and 
                problems associated with activities to prevent further 
                habitat loss and to restore habitat through 
                reintroduction or establishment of appropriate native 
                plant species.
            (3) Transmittal.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are made available to carry out this section, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall transmit the study under 
        paragraph (1) to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
        of the Senate and to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
        Representatives.

    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section a total of $7,500,000 for the 10 
fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 402. OLD SPANISH TRAIL.

    Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(  ) The Old Spanish Trail, beginning in Santa Fe, New 
Mexico, proceeding through Colorado and Utah, and ending in Los Angeles, 
California, and the Northern Branch of the Old Spanish Trail, beginning 
near Espanola, New Mexico, proceeding through Colorado, and ending near 
Crescent Junction, Utah.''.

SEC. 403. GREAT WESTERN SCENIC TRAIL.

    Section 5(c) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(c)) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
    ``(  ) The Great Western Scenic Trail, a system of trails to 
accommodate a variety of travel users in a corridor of approximately 
3,100 miles in length extending from the Arizona-Mexico border to the 
Idaho-Montana-Canada border, following the approximate route depicted on 
the map identified as `Great Western Trail Corridor, 1988', which shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
Chief of the Forest Service, United States Department of Agriculture. 
The trail study shall be conducted by the Secretary of Agriculture, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, in accordance with 
subsection (b) and shall include--
            ``(A) the current status of land ownership and current and 
        potential use along the designated route;
            ``(B) the estimated cost of acquisition of lands or 
        interests in lands, if any; and
            ``(C) an examination of the appropriateness of motorized 
        trail use along the trail.''.

SEC. 404. HANFORD REACH PRESERVATION.

    Section 2 of Public Law 100-605 is amended as follows:
            (1) By striking ``INTERIM'' in the section heading.
            (2) By striking ``For a period of eight years after'' and 
        inserting ``After'' in subsection (a).
            (3) By striking in subsection (b) ``During the eight year 
        interim protection period, provided by this section, all'' and 
        inserting ``All''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4149]]

SEC. 405. LAMPREY WILD AND SCENIC RIVER.

    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding the following new paragraph at the 
end thereof:
    ``(  ) Lamprey River, New Hampshire.--The 11.5-mile segment 
extending from the southern Lee town line to the confluence with the 
Piscassic River in the vicinity of the Durham-Newmarket town line 
(hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as the `segment') as a 
recreational river. The segment shall be administered by the Secretary 
of the Interior through cooperation agreements between the Secretary and 
the State of New Hampshire and its relevant political subdivisions, 
namely the towns of Durham, Lee, and Newmarket, pursuant to section 
10(e) of this Act. The segment shall be managed in accordance with the 
Lamprey River Management Plan dated January 10, 1995, and such 
amendments thereto as the Secretary of the Interior determines are 
consistent with this Act. Such plan shall be deemed to satisfy the 
requirements for a comprehensive management plan pursuant to section 
3(d) of this Act.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 1274 note.>>     (b) Management.--
            (1) Committee.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        coordinate his management responsibilities under this Act with 
        respect to the segment designated by subsection (a) with the 
        Lamprey River Advisory Committee established pursuant to New 
        Hampshire RSA 483.
            (2) Land management.--The zoning ordinances duly adopted by 
        the towns of Durham, Lee, and Newmarket, New Hampshire, 
        including provisions for conservation of shorelands, 
        floodplains, and wetlands associated with the segment, shall be 
        deemed to satisfy the standards and requirements of section 6(c) 
        of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, and the provisions of that 
        section, which prohibit Federal acquisition of lands by 
        condemnation, shall apply to the segment designated by 
        subsection (a). The authority of the Secretary to acquire lands 
        for the purposes of this paragraph shall be limited to 
        acquisition by donation or acquisition with the consent of the 
        owner thereof, and shall be subject to the additional criteria 
        set forth in the Lamprey River Management Plan.

    (c) Upstream Segment.--Upon request by the town of Epping, which 
abuts an additional 12 miles of river found eligible for designation as 
a recreational river, the Secretary of the Interior shall offer 
assistance regarding continued involvement of the town of Epping in the 
implementation of the Lamprey River Management Plan and in consideration 
of potential future addition of that portion of the river within Epping 
as a component of the Wild and Scenic Rivers System.

SEC. 406. WEST VIRGINIA NATIONAL RIVERS AMENDMENTS OF 1996.

    (a) Amendments Pertaining to the New River Gorge National River.--
            (1) Boundaries.--Section 1101 of the National Parks and 
        Recreation Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 460m-15) is amended by 
        striking out ``NERI-80,023, dated January 1987'' and inserting 
        ``NERI-80,028A, dated March 1996''.
            (2) Fish and wildlife management.--Section 1106 of the 
        National Parks and Recreation Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 460m-20) is 
        amended by adding the following at the end thereof:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4150]]

        ``The Secretary shall permit the State of West Virginia to 
        undertake
fish stocking activities carried out by the State, in 
consultation with the Secretary, on waters within the boundaries of the 
national river. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as affecting the 
jurisdiction of the State of West Virginia with respect to fish and 
wildlife.''.
            (3) Conforming amendments.--Title XI of the National Parks 
        and Recreation Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 460m-15 et seq.) is 
        amended by adding the following new section at the end thereof:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460m-30.>> ``SEC. 1117. APPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF OTHER 
            LAW.

    ``(a) Cooperative Agreements.--The provisions of section 202(e)(1) 
of the West Virginia National Interest River 
Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww-1(e)(1)) shall apply to the 
New River Gorge National River in the same manner and to the same extent 
as such provisions apply to the Gauley River National Recreation Area.
    ``(b) Remnant Lands.--The provisions of the second sentence of 
section 203(a) of the West Virginia National Interest River Conservation 
Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 460ww-2(a)) shall apply to tracts of land 
partially within the boundaries of the New River Gorge National River in 
the same manner and to the same extent as such provisions apply to 
tracts of land only partially within the Gauley River National 
Recreation Area.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 460m-29a.>>     (b) Visitor Center.--The Secretary of the 
Interior is authorized to construct a visitor center and such other 
related facilities as may be deemed necessary to facilitate visitor 
understanding and enjoyment of the New River Gorge National River and 
the Gauley River National Recreation Area in the vicinity of the 
confluence of the New and Gauley Rivers. Such center and related 
facilities are authorized to be constructed at a site outside of the 
boundary of the New River Gorge National River or Gauley River National 
Recreation Area unless a suitable site is available within the 
boundaries of either unit.

    (c) Amendments Pertaining to the Gauley River National Recreation 
Area.--
            (1) Technical amendment.--Section 205(c) of the West 
        Virginia National Interest River Conservation Act of 1987 (16 
        U.S.C. 460ww-4(c)) is amended by adding the following at the end 
        thereof: ``If project construction is not commenced within the 
        time required in such license, or if such license is surrendered 
        at any time, such boundary modification shall cease to have any 
        force and effect.''.
            (2) Gauley access.--Section 202(e) of the West Virginia 
        National Interest River Conservation Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 
        460ww-1(e)) is amended by adding the following new paragraph at 
        the end thereof:
            ``(4) Access to river.--(A) In order to facilitate public 
        safety, use, and enjoyment of the recreation area, and to 
        protect, to the maximum extent feasible, the scenic and natural 
        resources of the area, the Secretary is authorized and directed 
        to acquire such lands or interests in lands and to take such 
        actions as are necessary to provide access by noncommercial 
        entities on the north side of the Gauley River at the 
        area known as Woods Ferry utilizing existing roads and rights-
        of-way. Such actions by the Secretary shall include the 


[[Page 110 STAT. 4151]]

        construction of parking and related facilities in the vicinity 
        of Woods Ferry for noncommercial use on lands acquired pursuant 
        to paragraph (3) or on lands acquired with the consent of the 
        owner thereof within the boundaries of the recreation area.
            ``(B) If necessary, in the discretion of the Secretary, in 
        order to minimize environmental impacts, including visual 
        impacts, within portions of the recreation area immediately 
        adjacent to the river, the Secretary may, by contract or 
        otherwise, provide transportation services for noncommercial 
        visitors,
at reasonable cost, between such parking facilities and the river.
            ``(C) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall affect the rights of 
        any person to continue to utilize, pursuant to a lease in effect 
        on April 1, 1993, any right of way acquired pursuant to such 
        lease which authorizes such person to use an existing road 
        referred to in subparagraph (A). Except as provided under 
        paragraph (2) relating to access immediately downstream of the 
        Summersville project, until there is compliance with this 
        paragraph the Secretary is prohibited from acquiring or 
        developing any other river access points within the recreation 
        area.''.

    (d) Amendments Pertaining to the Bluestone National Scenic River.--
            (1) Boundaries.--Section 3(a)(65) of the Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(65)) is amended by striking out 
        ``WSR-BLU/20,000, and dated January 1987'' and inserting ``BLUE-
        80,005, dated May 1996''.
            (2) Public access.--Section 3(a)(65) of the Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)(65)) is amended by adding the 
        following at the end thereof: ``In order to provide reasonable 
        public access and vehicle parking for public use and enjoyment 
        of the river designated by this paragraph, consistent with the 
        preservation and enhancement of the natural and scenic values of 
        such river, the Secretary may, with the consent of the owner 
        thereof, negotiate a memorandum of understanding or cooperative 
        agreement, or acquire not more than 10 acres of lands or 
        interests in such lands, or both, as may be necessary to allow 
        public access to the Bluestone River and to provide, outside the 
        boundary of the scenic river, parking and related facilities in 
        the vicinity of the area known as Eads Mill.''.
SEC. 407. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO THE WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS ACT.

    (a) Numbering of Paragraphs.--The unnumbered paragraphs in section 
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), relating to 
each of the following river segments, are each amended by numbering such 
paragraphs as follows:

River:                                                  Paragraph Number
East Fork of Jemez, New Mexico.................................... (109)
Pecos River, New Mexico........................................... (110)
Smith River, California........................................... (111)
Middle Fork Smith River, California............................... (112)
North Fork Smith River, California................................ (113)
Siskiyou Fork Smith River, California............................. (114)
South Fork Smith River, California................................ (115)
Clarks Fork, Wyoming.............................................. (116)
Niobrara, Nebraska................................................ (117)
Missouri River, Nebraska and South Dakota......................... (118)
Bear Creek, Michigan.............................................. (119)
Black, Michigan................................................... (120)

[[Page 110 STAT. 4152]]

Carp, Michigan.................................................... (121)
Indian, Michigan.................................................. (122)
Manistee, Michigan................................................ (123)
Ontonagon, Michigan............................................... (124)
Paint, Michigan................................................... (125)
Pine, Michigan.................................................... (126)
Presque Isle, Michigan............................................ (127)
Sturgeon, Hiawatha National Forest, Michigan...................... (128)
Sturgeon, Ottawa National Forest, Michigan........................ (129)
East Branch of the Tahquamenon, Michigan.......................... (130)
Whitefish, Michigan............................................... (131)
Yellow Dog, Michigan.............................................. (132)
Allegheny, Pennsylvania........................................... (133)
Big Piney Creek, Arkansas......................................... (134)
Buffalo River, Arkansas........................................... (135)
Cossatot River, Arkansas.......................................... (136)
Hurricane Creek, Arkansas......................................... (137)
Little Missouri River, Arkansas................................... (138)
Mulberry River, Arkansas.......................................... (139)
North Sylamore Creek, Arkansas.................................... (140)
Richland Creek, Arkansas.......................................... (141)
Sespe Creek, California........................................... (142)
Sisquoc River, California......................................... (143)
Big Sur River, California......................................... (144)
Great Egg Harbor River, New Jersey................................ (145)
The Maurice River, Middle Segment................................. (146)
The Maurice River, Middle Segment................................. (147)
The Maurice River, Upper Segment.................................. (148)
The Menantico Creek, Lower Segment................................ (149)
The Menantico Creek, Upper Segment................................ (150)
Manumuskin River, Lower Segment................................... (151)
Manumuskin River, Upper Segment................................... (152)
Muskee Creek, New Jersey.......................................... (153)
Red River, Kentucky............................................... (154)
Rio Grande, New Mexico............................................ (155)
Farmington River, Connecticut..................................... (156)

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1276.>>     (b) Study Rivers.--Section 5(a) of such Act 
is amended as follows:
            (1) Paragraph (106), relating to St. Mary's, Florida, is 
        renumbered as paragraph (108).
            (2) Paragraph (112), relating to White Clay Creek, Delaware 
        and Pennsylvania, is renumbered as paragraph (113).
            (3) The unnumbered paragraphs, relating to each of the 
        following rivers, are amended by numbering such paragraphs as 
        follows:

River:                                                  Paragraph Number
Mills River, North Carolina....................................... (109)
Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord, Massachusetts...................... (110)
Niobrara, Nebraska................................................ (111)
Lamprey, New Hampshire............................................ (112)
Brule, Michigan and Wisconsin..................................... (114)
Carp, Michigan.................................................... (115)
Little Manistee, Michigan......................................... (116)
White, Michigan................................................... (117)
Ontonagon, Michigan............................................... (118)
Paint, Michigan................................................... (119)
Presque Isle, Michigan............................................ (120)
Sturgeon, Ottawa National Forest, Michigan........................ (121)
Sturgeon, Hiawatha National Forest, Michigan...................... (122)
Tahquamenon, Michigan............................................. (123)
Whitefish, Michigan............................................... (124)
Clarion, Pennsylvania............................................. (125)
Mill Creek, Jefferson and Clarion Counties, Pennsylvania.......... (126)
Piru Creek, California............................................ (127)
Little Sur River, California...................................... (128)
Matilija Creek, California........................................ (129)
Lopez Creek, California........................................... (130)
Sespe Creek, California........................................... (131)
North Fork Merced, California..................................... (132)

[[Page 110 STAT. 4153]]

Delaware River, Pennsylvania and New Jersey....................... (133)
New River, West Virginia and Virginia............................. (134)
Rio Grande, New Mexico............................................ (135)

SEC. 408. PROTECTION OF NORTH ST. VRAIN CREEK, COLORADO.

    (a) North St. Vrain Creek and Adjacent Lands.--The Act of January 
26, 1915, establishing Rocky Mountain National Park (38 Stat. 798; 16 
U.S.C. 191 et seq.), is amended by adding the following new section at 
the end thereof:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 195a.>> ``SEC. 5. NORTH ST. VRAIN CREEK AND ADJACENT 
            LANDS.

    ``Neither the Secretary of the Interior nor any other Federal agency 
or officer may approve or issue any permit for, or provide any 
assistance for, the construction of any new dam, reservoir, or 
impoundment on any segment of North St. Vrain Creek or its tributaries 
within the boundaries of Rocky Mountain National Park or on the main 
stem of North St. Vrain Creek downstream to the point at which the creek 
crosses the elevation 6,550 feet above mean sea level. Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to prevent the issuance of any permit for the 
construction of a new water gauging station on North St. Vrain Creek at 
the point of its confluence with Coulson Gulch.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 192b-9 note.>>     (b) Encouragement of Exchanges.--
            (1) Lands inside rocky mountain national park.--Promptly 
        following enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall seek to acquire by donation or exchange those lands within 
        the boundaries of Rocky Mountain National Park owned by the city 
        of Longmont, Colorado, that are referred to in section 111(d) of 
        the Act commonly referred to as the ``Colorado Wilderness Act of 
        1980'' (Public Law 96-560; 94 Stat. 3272; 16 U.S.C. 192b-9(d)).
            (2) Other lands.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        immediately and actively pursue negotiations with the city of 
        Longmont, Colorado, concerning the city's proposed exchange of 
        lands owned by the city and located in and near Coulson Gulch 
        for other lands owned by the <<NOTE: Reports.>> United States. 
        The 
        Secretary shall report to Congress 2 calendar years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter on 
        the progress of such negotiations until negotiations are 
        complete.

                TITLE V--HISTORIC AREAS AND CIVIL RIGHTS

SEC. 501. THE SELMA TO MONTGOMERY NATIONAL HISTORIC TRAIL.

    Section 5(a) of the National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) 
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
    ``(  ) The Selma to Montgomery National Historic Trail, consisting 
of 54 miles of city streets and United States Highway 80 from Brown 
Chapel A.M.E. Church in Selma to the State Capitol Building in 
Montgomery, Alabama, traveled by voting rights advocates during March 
1965 to dramatize the need for voting rights legislation, as generally 
described in the report of the Secretary of the Interior prepared 
pursuant to subsection (b) of this section entitled ``Selma to 
Montgomery'' and dated April 1993. Maps depicting the route shall be on 
file and available for public inspection

[[Page 110 STAT. 4154]]

in the Office of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior. 
The trail shall be administered in accordance with this Act, including 
section 7(h). The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the National 
Park Service, which shall be the lead Federal agency, shall cooperate 
with other Federal, State and local authorities to preserve historic 
sites along the route, including (but not limited to) the Edmund Pettus 
Bridge and the Brown Chapel A.M.E. Church.''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 502. VANCOUVER NATIONAL HISTORIC 
            RESERVE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Vancouver National 
Historic Reserve in the State of Washington (referred to in this section 
as the ``Reserve''), consisting of the area described in the report 
entitled ``Vancouver National Historic Reserve Feasibility Study and 
Environmental Assessment'' published by the Vancouver Historical 
Assessment'' published by the Vancouver Historical Study Commission and 
dated April 1993 as authorized by Public Law 101-523 (referred to in 
this section as the ``Vancouver Historic Reserve Report'').
    (b) Administration.--(1) The Reserve shall be administered through a 
general management plan developed in accordance with this section, and 
approved by the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of the Army.
    (2) Not later than three years after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the National Park Service shall submit to the Secretaries a general 
management plan for the administration of the Reserve.
    (3) The general management plan shall be developed by a Partnership 
comprised of a representative from the National Park Service, a 
representative of the Historic Preservation Office of the State of 
Washington, a representative of the Department of the Army, and a 
representative of the City of Vancouver, Washington.
    (4) The general management plan shall be developed in 
accordance with the specific findings and recommendations of the 
Vancouver Historic Reserve Report, along with any other considerations 
not otherwise in conflict with the Report, and shall include at a 
minimum a statement of purpose, an interpretive plan, and an economic 
plan for Pearson Field.
    (5) The Reserve shall not be deemed to be a new unit of the National 
Park System.
    (c) No Limitation on FAA Authority.--The establishment of the 
Reserve shall not limit--
            (1) the authority of the Federal Aviation Administration 
        over air traffic control, or aviation activities at Pearson 
        Airpark; or
            (2) limit operations and airspace in the vicinity of 
        Portland International Airport.

    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $400,000 per year for operational costs for each fiscal 
year following enactment of this Act and $5,000,000 for development 
costs.
SEC.  503.  EXTENSION OF KALOKO-HONOKOHAU ADVISORY 
                        COMMISSION.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 396d note.>>     (a) Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical 
Park.--
Notwithstanding section 505(f)(7) of Public Law 95-625 (16 U.S.C. 
396d(f)(7)), the Na Hoa Pili O Kaloko-Honokohau, the Advisory Commission 
for Kaloko-Honokohau National Historical Park,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4155]]

is hereby re-established in accordance with section 505(f), as amended 
by paragraph (2) of this subsection.

    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 505(f)(7) of Public Law 95-625 
(16 U.S.C. 396d(7)), is amended by striking ``this Act'' and inserting 
in lieu thereof, ``the Na Hoa Pili Kaloko-Honokohau 
Re-establishment Act of 1996''.

SEC. 504. AMENDMENT TO BOSTON NATIONAL HISTORIC PARK ACT.

    Section 3(b) of the Boston National Historical Park Act of 1974 (16 
U.S.C. 410z-1(b)) is amended by inserting ``(1)'' before the first 
sentence thereof and by adding the following at the end thereof:
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the Boston Public Library to provide for the 
distribution of informational and interpretive materials relating to the 
park and to the Freedom Trail.''.

SEC. 505. WOMEN'S RIGHTS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    (a) Inclusion of Other Properties.--Section 1601(c) of Public Law 
96-607 (16 U.S.C. 410ll) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Establishment.--To carry out the purposes of this section 
there is hereby established the Women's Rights National Historical Park 
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``park''). The park 
shall consist of the following designated sites in Seneca Falls and 
Waterloo, New York:
            ``(1) Stanton House, 32 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(2) dwelling, 30 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(3) dwelling, 34 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(4) lot, 26-28 Washington Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(5) former Wesleyan Chapel, 126 Fall Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(6) theater, 128 Fall Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(7) McClintock House, 16 East Williams Street, Waterloo;
            ``(8) Hunt House, 401 East Williams Street, Waterloo;
            ``(9) not to exceed 1 acre, plus improvements, as determined 
        by the Secretary, in Seneca Falls for development of a 
        maintenance facility;
            ``(10) dwelling, 1 Seneca Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(11) dwelling, 10 Seneca Street, Seneca Falls;
            ``(12) parcels adjacent to Wesleyan Chapel Block, including 
        Clinton Street, Fall Street, and Mynderse Street, Seneca 
        Falls; and
            ``(13) dwelling, 12 East Williams Street, Waterloo.''.

    ``(b) Miscellaneous Amendments.--Section 1601 of Public Law 96-607 
(16 U.S.C. 410ll) is amended by redesignating subsection (i) as 
``(i)(1)'' and inserting at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
<<NOTE: Appropriation authorization.>>     ``(2) In addition to those 
sums appropriated prior to the date of enactment of this paragraph for 
land acquisition and development, there is hereby authorized to be 
appropriated an additional $2,000,000.''.

<<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note.>> SEC. 506. BLACK PATRIOTS MEMORIAL EXTENSION.

    The legislative authority for the Black Revolutionary War 
Patriots Foundation to establish a commemorative work (as defined by the 
Commemorative Works Act (40 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.)) shall expire October 
27, 1998, notwithstanding the time period limitation specified in 
section 10(b) of that Act (40 U.S.C. 1010(b)).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4156]]

<<NOTE: 16 USC 470a note.>> SEC. 507. HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES 
                        AND UNIVERSITIES 
                        HISTORIC BUILDING RESTORATION AND 
                        PRESERVATION.

    (a) Authority To Make Grants.--From the amounts made available to 
carry out the National Historic Preservation Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall make grants in accordance with this section to eligible 
historically black colleges and universities for the preservation and 
restoration of historic buildings and 
structures on the campus of these institutions.
    (b) Grant Conditions.--Grants made under subsection (a) shall be 
subject to the condition that the grantee covenants, for the period of 
time specified by the Secretary, that--
            (1) no alteration will be made in the property with respect 
        to which the grant is made without the concurrence of the 
        Secretary; and
            (2) reasonable public access to the property with respect to 
        which the grant is made will be permitted by the grantee for 
        interpretive and educational purposes.

    (c) Matching Requirement for Buildings and Structures Listed on the 
National Register of Historic Places.--(1) Except as provided by 
paragraph (2), the Secretary may obligate funds made available under 
this section for a grant with respect to a building or structure listed 
on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of Historic Places 
only if the grantee agrees to match, from funds derived from non-Federal 
sources, the amount of the grant with an amount that is equal or greater 
than the grant.
    (2) The Secretary may waive paragraph (1) with respect to a grant if 
the Secretary determines from circumstances that an extreme emergency 
exists or that such a waiver is in the public interest to assure the 
preservation of historically significant resources.
    (d) Funding Provision.--Pursuant to section 108 of the National 
Historic Preservation Act, $29,000,000 shall be made available to carry 
out the purposes of this section. Of amounts made available pursuant to 
this section, $5,000,000 shall be available for grants to Fisk 
University, $2,500,000 shall be available for grants to Knoxville 
College, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to Miles College, 
Alabama, $1,500,000 shall be available for grants to Talladega College, 
Alabama, $1,550,000 shall be available for grants to Selma University, 
Alabama, $250,000 shall be available for grants to Stillman College, 
Alabama, $200,000 shall be available for grants to Concordia College, 
Alabama, $2,900,000 shall be available for grants to Allen University, 
South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for grants to Claflin 
College, South Carolina, $2,000,000 shall be available for grants to 
Voorhees College, South Carolina, $1,000,000 shall be available for 
grants to Rust College, Mississippi, and $3,000,000 shall be available 
for grants to Tougaloo College, Mississippi.
    (e) Regulations.--The Secretary shall develop such guidelines as may 
be necessary to carry out this section.
    (f) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Historically black colleges.--The term ``historically 
        black colleges and universities'' has the same meaning given the 
        term ``part B institution'' by section 322 of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061).
            (2) Historic building and structures.--The term ``historic 
        building and structures'' means a building or structure

[[Page 110 STAT. 4157]]

        listed on, or eligible for listing on, the National Register of 
        Historic Places or designated a National Historic Landmark.

<<NOTE: 40 USC 1003 note.>> SEC. 508.  MEMORIAL TO MARTIN LUTHER KING, 
            JR.

<<NOTE: Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity.>>     (a) In General.--The Secretary 
of the Interior is authorized to permit the Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity 
to establish a memorial on lands under the administrative jurisdiction 
of the Secretary in the District of Columbia or its environs to honor 
Martin Luther King, Jr., pursuant to the Commemorative Works Act of 
1986.

    (b) Compliance With Standards For Commemorative Works.--The 
establishment of the memorial shall be in accordance with the Act 
entitled ``An Act to provide standards for placement of commemorative 
works on certain Federal lands in the District of Columbia and its 
environs, and for other purposes'' approved November 14, 1986 (40 U.S.C. 
1001 et seq.).
    (c) Payment of Expenses.--The Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity shall be 
solely responsible for acceptance of contributions for, and payment of 
the expenses of, the establishment of the memorial. No Federal funds may 
be used to pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial.
    (d) Deposit of Excess Funds.--If, upon payment of all expenses of 
the establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and 
preservation amount provided for in section 8(b) of the Act referred to 
in section 4401(b)), or upon expiration of the authority for the 
memorial under section 10(b) of that Act, there remains a balance of 
funds received for the establishment of the memorial, the Alpha Phi 
Alpha Fraternity shall transmit the amount of the balance to the 
Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the account provided for in 
section 8(b)(1) of that Act.
SEC. 509. ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION 
                        REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Reauthorization.--The last sentence of section 212(a) of the 
National <<NOTE: 16 USC 470t.>>  Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
470 et seq.) is amended to read as follows: ``There are authorized to be 
appropriated for the purposes of this title not to exceed $4,000,000 in 
each fiscal year 1997 through 2000.''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 470f note.>>     (b) Reporting Requirements.--Within 18 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Advisory Council on 
Historic Preservation shall submit a report to the appropriate 
congressional committees containing an analysis of alternatives for 
modifying the regulatory process for addressing impacts of Federal 
actions on nationally significant historic properties, as well as 
alternatives for future promulgation and oversight of regulations for 
implementation of section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act.

    (c) Technical Amendments.--Title II of the National Historic 
Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 et seq.) is amended as follows:
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 470i.>>     (1) By striking ``appointed'' in 
        section 201(a)(4) and 
        inserting ``designated''.
            (2) By striking ``and 10'' in section 201(c) and inserting 
        ``through (11)''.
            (3) By adding the following new section after section 214:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 470v-1.>>     ``Sec. 215. Subject to applicable conflict 
of interest laws, the Council may receive reimbursements from State and 
local agencies and others pursuant to agreements executed in furtherance 
of the purposes of this Act.''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4158]]

        <<NOTE: 16 USC 470m.>>     (4) By amending subsection (g) of 
        section 205 to read as follows:

    ``(g) Any Federal agency may provide the Council, with or without 
reimbursement as may be agreed upon by the Chairman and the agency, with 
such funds, personnel, facilities and services under its jurisdiction 
and control as may be needed by the Council to carry out its duties, to 
the extent that such funds, personnel, facilities, and services are 
requested by the Council and are otherwise available for the purpose. 
Any funds provided to the Council pursuant to this subsection must be 
expended by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in 
which the funds are received by the Council. To the extent of available 
appropriations, the Council may obtain by purchase, rental, donation, or 
otherwise, such additional property facilities, and services as may be 
needed to carry out its duties and may also receive donations of moneys 
for such purpose, and the Executive Director is authorized, in his 
discretion, to accept, hold, use, expend, and administer the same for 
the purposes of this Act.''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 510. GREAT FALLS HISTORIC DISTRICT, NEW 
            JERSEY.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to preserve and interpret, for the educational and 
        inspirational benefit of the public, the contribution of our 
        national heritage of certain historic and cultural lands and 
        edifices of the Great Falls Historic District, with emphasis on 
        harnessing this unique urban environment for its 
        educational and recreational value; and
            (2) to enhance economic and cultural redevelopment within 
        the District.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) District.--The term ``District'' means the Great Falls 
        Historic District established by subsection (c).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Historic infrastructure.--The term ``historic 
        infrastructure'' means the District's historic raceway system, 
        all four stories of the original Colt Gun Mill, including 
        belltower, and any other structure that the Secretary determines 
        to be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.

    (c) Great Falls Historic District.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Great Falls 
        Historic District in the city of Paterson, in Passaic County, 
        New Jersey.
            (2) Boundaries.--The boundaries of the District shall be the 
        boundaries specified by the Great Falls Historic District listed 
        on the National Register of Historic Places.

    (d) Development Plan.--The Secretary may make grants and enter into 
cooperative agreements with the State of New Jersey, local governments, 
and private nonprofit entities under which the Secretary agrees to pay 
not more than 50 percent of the costs of--
            (1) preparation of a plan for the development of historic, 
        architectural, natural, cultural, and interpretive resources 
        within the District;
            (2) implementation of projects approved by the Secretary 
        under the development plan; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4159]]

            (3) a market analysis assessing the economic development 
        potential of the District and recommending steps to be taken to 
        encourage economic development and revitalization in a manner 
        consistent with the District's historic character.

    (e) Restoration, Preservation, and Interpretation of Properties.--
            (1) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the State of New Jersey, local 
        governments and nonprofit entities owning property within the 
        District under which the Secretary may--
                    (A) pay not more than 50 percent of the cost of 
                restoring, repairing, rehabilitating, and improving 
                historic infrastructure within the District;
                    (B) provide technical assistance with respect to the 
                preservation and interpretation of properties within the 
                District; and
                    (C) mark and provide interpretation of properties 
                within the District.
            (2) Provisions.--A cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
        shall provide that--
                    (A) the Secretary shall have the right of access at 
                reasonable times to public portions of the property for 
                interpretive and other purposes;
                    (B) no change or alteration may be made in the 
                property except with the agreement of the property 
                owner, the Secretary, and any Federal agency that may 
                have regulatory jurisdiction over the property; and
                    (C) any construction grant made under this section 
                shall be subject to an agreement that provides that 
                conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted 
                for purposes contrary to the purposes of this section 
                shall result in a right of the United States to 
                compensation from the beneficiary of the grant, and that 
                provides for a schedule for such compensation based on 
                the level of Federal investment and the anticipated 
                useful life of the project.
            (3) Applications.--
                    (A) In general.--A property owner that desires to 
                enter into a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
                shall submit to the Secretary an application describing 
                how the project proposed to be funded will further the 
                purposes of the District.
                    (B) Consideration.--In making such funds available 
                under this subsection, the Secretary shall give 
                consideration to projects that provide a greater 
                leverage of Federal funds.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated from the Historic Preservation Fund authorized under the 
National Historic Preservation Act to the Secretary to carry out this 
section--
            (1) $250,000 for grants and cooperative agreements for the 
        development plan under subsection (d); and
            (2) $50,000 for the provision of technical assistance and 
        $3,000,000 for the provision of other assistance under 
        cooperative agreements under subsection (e).

<<NOTE: 16 USC 410ddd.>> SEC. 511. NEW BEDFORD NATIONAL HISTORIC 
            LANDMARK DISTRICT.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4160]]

            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
                    (A) the New Bedford National Historic Landmark 
                District and associated historic sites as described in 
                subsection (c)(2), including the Schooner Ernestina, are 
                National Historic Landmarks and are listed on the 
                National Register of Historic Places as historic sites 
                associated with the history of whaling in the United 
                States;
                    (B) the city of New Bedford was the 19th century 
                capital of the world's whaling industry and retains 
                significant architectural features, archival materials, 
                and museum collections illustrative of this period;
                    (C) New Bedford's historic resources provide unique 
                opportunities for illustrating and interpreting the 
                whaling industry's contribution to the economic, social, 
                and environmental history of the United States and 
                provide opportunities for public use and enjoyment; and
                    (D) during the nineteenth century, over two thousand 
                whaling voyages sailed out of New Bedford to the Arctic 
                region of Alaska, and joined Alaska Natives from Barrow, 
                Alaska and other areas in the Arctic region in 
                subsistence whaling activities; and
                    (E) the National Park System presently contains no 
                sites commemorating whaling and its contribution to 
                American history.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to help preserve, protect, and interpret the 
                resources within the areas described in subsection 
                (c)(2), including architecture, setting, and associated 
                archival and museum collections;
                    (B) to collaborate with the city of New Bedford and 
                with associated historical, cultural,
and preservation 
organizations to further the purposes of the park established under this 
section; and
                    (C) to provide opportunities for the inspirational 
                benefit and education of the American people.

    (b) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``park'' means the New Bedford Whaling National 
        Historical Park established by subsection (c); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

    (c) New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park.--
            (1) Establishment.--In order to preserve for the benefit and 
        inspiration of the people of the United States as a national 
        historical park certain districts structures, and relics located 
        in New Bedford, Massachusetts, and associated with the history 
        of whaling and related social and economic themes in America, 
        there is established the New Bedford Whaling National 
        Historical Park.
            (2) Boundaries.--(A) The boundaries of the park shall be 
        those generally depicted on the map numbered NAR-P49-80,000-4 
        and dated June 1994. Such map shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National 
        Park Service. In case of any conflict between the descriptions 
        set forth in clauses (i) through (iv) and such map, such map 
        shall govern. The park shall include the 
        following:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4161]]

                    (i) The area included with the New Bedford National 
                Historic Landmark District, known as the Bedford Landing 
                Waterfront Historic District, as listed within the 
                National Register of Historic Places and in the 
                Massachusetts State Register of Historic Places.
                    (ii) The National Historic Landmark Schooner 
                Ernestina, with its home port in New Bedford.
                    (iii) The land along the eastern boundary of the New 
                Bedford National Historic Landmark District over the 
                east side of MacArthur Drive from the Route 6 overpass 
                on the north to an extension of School Street on the 
                south.
                    (iv) The land north of Elm Street in New Bedford, 
                bounded by Acushnet Avenue on the west, Route 6 (ramps) 
                on the north, MacArthur Drive on the east, and Elm 
                Street on the south.
            (B) In addition to the sites, areas, and relics referred to 
        in subparagraph (A), the Secretary may assist in the 
        interpretation and preservation of each of the following:
                    (i) The southwest corner of the State Pier.
                    (ii) Waterfront Park, immediately south of land 
                adjacent to the State Pier.
                    (iii) The Rotch-Jones-Duff House and Garden Museum, 
                located at 396 County Street.
                    (iv) The Wharfinger Building, located on Piers 3 
                and 4.
                    (v) The Bourne Counting House, located on Merrill's 
                Wharf.

    (d) Related Facilities.--To ensure that the contribution of Alaska 
Natives to the history of whaling in the United States is fully 
recognized, the Secretary shall provide--
            (1) financial and other assistance to establish links 
        between the New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park and the 
        North Slope Borough Cultural Center, located in Barrow, Alaska; 
        and
            (2) to provide appropriate assistance and funding for the 
        North Slope Borough Cultural Center.

    (e) Administration of Park.--
            (1) In general.--The park shall be administered by the 
        Secretary in accordance with this section and the provisions of 
        law generally applicable to units of the National Park 
        System, including the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a 
        National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 
        25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2, 3, and 4) and the Act of 
        August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467).
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--(A) The Secretary may consult 
        and enter into cooperative agreements with interested entities 
        and individuals to provide for the preservation, development, 
        interpretation, and use of the park.
            (B) Any payment made by the Secretary pursuant to a 
        cooperative agreement under this paragraph shall be subject to 
        an agreement that conversion, use, or disposal of the project so 
        assisted for purposes contrary to the purposes of this section, 
        as determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the 
        United States to reimbursement of all funds made available to 
        such project or the proportion of the increased value of

[[Page 110 STAT. 4162]]

        the project attributable to such funds as determined at the time 
        of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.
            (3) Non-federal matching requirements.--(A) Funds authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary for the purposes of--
                    (i) cooperative agreements under paragraph (2) shall 
                be expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds 
                for each four dollars of funds contributed by non-
                Federal sources; and
                    (ii) construction, restoration, and rehabilitation 
                of visitors and interpretive facilities (other than 
                annual operation and maintenance costs) shall be 
                expended in the ratio of one dollar of Federal funds for 
                each one dollar of funds contributed by non-Federal 
                sources.
            (B) For the purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary is 
        authorized to accept from non-Federal sources, and to utilize 
        for purposes of this section, any money so contributed. With the 
        approval of the Secretary, any donation of property, services, 
        or goods from a non-Federal source may be considered as a 
        contribution of funds from a non-Federal source for the purposes 
        of this paragraph.
            (4) Acquisition of real property.--For the purposes of the 
        park, the Secretary may acquire only by donation such lands, 
        interests in lands, and improvements thereon within the park as 
        are needed for essential visitor contact and interpretive 
        facilities.
            (5) Other property, funds, and services.--The Secretary may 
        accept donated funds, property, and services to carry out this 
        section.

    (e) General Management Plan.--Not later than the end of the second 
fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate a general management plan for the park and shall implement such 
plan as soon as practically possible. The plan shall be prepared in 
accordance with section 12(b) of the Act of August 18, 1970 (16 U.S.C. 
1a-7(b)) and other applicable law.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), there 
        are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
        necessary to carry out annual operations and maintenance with 
        respect to the park and to carry out the activities under 
        section 3(D).
            (2) Exceptions.--In carrying out this section--
                    (A) not more than $2,000,000 may be appropriated for 
                construction, restoration, and rehabilitation of visitor 
                and interpretive facilities, and directional and visitor 

                orientation signage;
                    (B) none of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
                by this section may be used for the operation or 
                maintenance of the Schooner Ernestina; and
                    (C) not more than $50,000 annually of Federal funds 
                may be used for interpretive and education programs for 
                the Schooner Ernestina pursuant to cooperative grants 
                under subsection (d)(2).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4163]]

<<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 512. NICODEMUS NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                    (A) the town of Nicodemus, in Kansas, has national 
                significance as the only remaining western town 
                established by African-Americans during the 
                Reconstruction period following the Civil War;
                    (B) the town of Nicodemus is symbolic of the pioneer 
                spirit of Afican-Americans who dared to leave the only 
                region they had been familiar with to seek personal 
                freedom and the opportunity to develop their talents and 
                capabilities; and
                    (C) the town of Nicodemus continues to be a valuable 
                African-American community.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to preserve, protect, and interpret for the 
                benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, 
                the remaining structures and locations that represent 
                the history (including the settlement and growth) of the 
                town of Nicodemus, Kansas; and
                    (B) to interpret the historical role of the town of 
                Nicodemus in the Reconstruction period in the context of 
                the experience of westward expansion in the United 
                States.

    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Historic site.--The term ``historic site'' means the 
        Nicodemus National Historic Site established by subsection (c).
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

    (c) Establishment of Nicodemus National Historic Site.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Nicodemus 
        National Historic Site in Nicodemus, Kansas.
            (2) Description.--
                    (A) In general.--The historic site shall consist of 
                the first Baptist Church, the St. Francis Hotel, the 
                Nicodemus School District Number 1, the African 
                Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Township Hall 
                located within the approximately 161.35 acres designated 
                as the Nicodemus National Landmark in the Township of 
                Nicodemus, Graham County, Kansas, as registered on the 
                National Register of Historic Places pursuant to section 
                101 of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
                470a), and depicted on a map entitled ``Nicodemus 
                National Historic Site'', numbered 80,000 and dated 
                August 1994.
                    (B) Map and boundary description.--The map referred 
                to in subparagraph (A) and accompanying boundary 
                description shall be on file and available for public 
                inspection in the office of the Director of the National 
                Park
Service and any other office of the National Park Service that the 
Secretary determines to be an appropriate location for filing the map 
and boundary description.

    (d) Administration of the Historic Site.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        historic site in accordance with this section and the provisions 
        of law generally applicable to units of the National Park 
        System, including the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a 
        National

[[Page 110 STAT. 4164]]

        Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 
        (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 
        666, chapter 593; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--To further the purposes of this 
        section, the Secretary may enter into a cooperative agreement 
        with any interested individual, public or private agency, 
        organization, or institution.
            (3) Technical and preservation assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may provide to any 
                eligible person described in subparagraph (B) technical 
                assistance for the preservation of historic structures 
                of, the maintenance of the cultural landscape of, and 
                local preservation planning for, the historic site.
                    (B) Eligible persons.--The eligible persons 
                described in this subparagraph are--
                          (i) an owner of real property within the 
                      boundary of the historic site, as described in 
                      subsection (c)(2); and
                          (ii) any interested individual, agency, 
                      organization, or institution that has entered into 
                      an agreement with the Secretary pursuant to 
                      paragraph (2).

    (e) Acquisition of Real Property.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary is 
        authorized to acquire by donation, exchange, or purchase with 
        funds made available by donation or appropriation, such lands or 
        interests in lands as may be necessary to allow for the 
        interpretation, preservation, or restoration of the First 
        Baptist Church, the St. Francis Hotel, the Nicodemus School 
        District Number 1, the African Methodist Episcopal Church, or 
        the Township Hall, as described in subsection (c)(2)(A), or any 
        combination thereof.
            (2) Limitations.--
                    (A) Acquisition of property owned by the state of 
                kansas.--Real property that is owned by the State of 
                Kansas or a political subdivision of the State of Kansas 
                that is acquired pursuant to paragraph (1) may only be 
                acquired by donation.
                    (B) Consent of owner required.--No real property may 
                be acquired under this subsection without the consent of 
                the owner of the real property.

    (f) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the last day of the third 
        full fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the Secretary shall, in consultation with the officials 
        described in paragraph (2), prepare a general management plan 
        for the historic site.
            (2) Consultation.--In preparing the general management plan, 
        the Secretary shall consult with an appropriate official of each 
        of the following:
                    (A) The Nicodemus Historical Society.
                    (B) The Kansas Historical Society.
                    (C) Appropriate political subdivisions of the State 
                of Kansas that have jurisdiction over all or a portion 
                of the historic site.
            (3) Submission of plan to congress.--Upon the 
        completion of the general management plan, the Secretary shall 
        submit a copy of the plan to the Committee on Energy and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4165]]

        Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Resources 
        of the House of Representatives.

    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Department of the Interior such sums as are 
necessary to carry out this section.

<<NOTE: Aleutian World War II National Historic Areas Act of 1996. 16 
            USC 461 note.>> SEC. 513. UNALASKA.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Aleutian World 
War II National Historic Areas Act of 1996''.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to designate and 
preserve the Aleutian World War II National Historic Area within lands 
owned by the Ounalaska Corporation on the island of Amaknak, Alaska and 
to provide for the interpretation, for the educational and inspirational 
benefit of present and future generations, of the unique and significant 
circumstances involving the history of the Aleut people, and the role of 
the Aleut people and the Aleutian Islands in the defense of the United 
States in World War II.
    (c) Boundaries.--The Aleutian World War II National Historic Area 
whall be comprised of areas on Amaknak Island depicted on the map 
entitled ``Aleutian World War II National Historic Area''.
    (d) Terms and Conditions.--Nothing in this section shall--
            (1) authorize the conveyance of lands between the Ounalaska 
        Corporation and the United States Department of the Interior, 
        nor remove land or structures appurtenant to the land from the 
        exclusive control of the Ounalaska Corporation; or
            (2) provide authority for the Department of the Interior to 
        assume the duties associated with the daily operation for the 
        historic area or any of its facilities or structures.

    (e) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary of the Interior may award 
grants and provide technical assistance to the Ounalaska Corporation and 
the City of Unalaska to assist with the planning, development, and 
historic preservation from any program funds authorized by law for 
technical assistance, land use planning or historic preservation.

<<NOTE: 40 USC 193a note, 1003 note.>> SEC. 514. JAPANESE AMERICAN 
            PATRIOTISM MEMORIAL.

    (a) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this section--
            (1) to assist in the effort to timely establish within the 
        District of Columbia a national memorial to Japanese American 
        patriotism in World War II; and
            (2) to improve management of certain parcels of Federal real 
        property located within the District of Columbia,

by the transferring jurisdiction over such parcels to the Architect of 
the Capitol, the Secretary of the Interior, and the Government of the 
District of Columbia.
    (b) Transfers of Jurisdiction.--
        <<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (1) In general.--Effective on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, jurisdiction over the parcels of Federal real 
        property described in paragraph (2) is transferred without 
        additional consideration as provided by paragraph (2).
            (2) Specific transfers.--
                    (A) Transfers to secretary of the interior.--
                          (i) In general.--Jurisdiction over the 
                      following parcels is transferred to the Secretary 
                      of the Interior:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4166]]

                                    (I) That triangle of Federal land, 
                                including any contiguous sidewalks
and tree space, that is part of the United States Capitol Grounds under 
the jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol bound by D Street, 
N.W., New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and Louisiana Avenue, N.W., in square 
W632 in the District of Columbia, as shown on the Map Showing Properties 
Under Jurisdiction of the Architect of the Capitol, dated November 8, 
1994.
                                    (II) That triangle of Federal land, 
                                including any contiguous sidewalks and 
                                tree space, that is part of the United 
                                States Capitol Grounds under the 
                                jurisdiction of the Architect of the 
                                Capitol bound by C Street, N.W., First 
                                Street, N.W., and Louisiana Avenue, 
                                N.W., in the District of Columbia, as 
                                shown on the Map Showing Properties 
                                Under Jurisdiction of the Architect of 
                                the Capitol, dated November 8, 1994.
                          (ii) Limitation.--The parcels transferred by 
                      clause (i) shall not include those contiguous 
                      sidewalks 
                      abutting Louisiana Avenue, N.W., which shall 
                      remain part of the United States Capitol Grounds 
                      under the jurisdiction of the Architect of the 
                      Capitol.
                          (iii) Consideration as memorial site.--The 
                      parcels transferred by subclause (I) of clause (i) 
                      may be considered as a site for a national 
                      memorial to Japanese American patriotism in World 
                      War II.
                    (B) Transfers to architect of the capitol.--
                Jurisdiction over the following parcels is transferred 
                to the Architect of the Capitol:
                          (i) That portion of the triangle of Federal 
                      land in Reservation No. 204 in the District of 
                      Columbia under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
                      of the Interior, including any contiguous 
                      sidewalks, bound by Constitution Avenue, N.E., on 
                      the north, the branch of 
                      Maryland Avenue, N.E., running in a northeast 
                      direction on the west, the major portion of 
                      Maryland Avenue, N.E., on the south, and 2nd 
                      Street, N.E., on the east, including the 
                      contiguous sidewalks.
                          (ii) That irregular area of Federal land in 
                      Reservation No. 204 in the District of Columbia 
                      under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the 
                      Interior, including any contiguous sidewalks, 
                      northeast of the real property described in clause 
                      (i) bound by Constitution Avenue, N.E., on the 
                      north, the branch of Maryland Avenue, N.E., 
                      running to the northeast on the south, and the 
                      private property on the west known as lot 7, in 
                      square 726.
                          (iii) The two irregularly shaped medians lying 
                      north and east of the property described in clause 
                      (i), located between the north and south curbs of 
                      Constitution Avenue, N.E., west of its 
                      intersection with Second Street, N.E., all as 
                      shown in Land Record No. 268, dated November 22, 
                      1957, in the Office of the Surveyor, District of 
                      Columbia, in Book 138, Page 58.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4167]]

                          (iv) All sidewalks under the jurisdiction of 
                      the District of Columbia abutting on and 
                      contiguous to the land described in clauses (i), 
                      (ii), and (iii).
                    (C) Transfers to district of columbia.--Jurisdiction 
                over the following parcels is transferred to the 
                Government of the District of Columbia:
                          (i) That portion of New Jersey Avenue, N.W., 
                      between the northernmost point of the intersection 
                      of New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and D Street, N.W., 
                      and the northernmost point of the intersection of 
                      New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and Louisiana Avenue, 
                      N.W., between squares 631 and W632, which remains 
                      Federal property.
                          (ii) That portion of D Street, N.W., between 
                      its intersection with New Jersey Avenue, N.W., and 
                      its intersection with Louisiana Avenue, N.W., 
                      between squares 630 and W632, which remains 
                      Federal 
                      property.

    (c) Miscellaneous.--
            (1) Compliance with other laws.--Compliance with this 
        section shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements of all laws 
        otherwise applicable to transfers of jurisdiction over parcels 
        of Federal real property.
            (2) Law enforcement responsibility.--Law enforcement 
        responsibility for the parcels of Federal real property for 
        which jurisdiction is transferred by subsection (b) shall be 
        assumed by the person acquiring such jurisdiction.
            (3) United states capitol grounds.--
                    (A) Definition.--The first section of the Act 
                entitled ``An Act to define the United States Capitol 
                Grounds, to regulate the use thereof, and for other 
                purposes'', approved July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 193a), is 
                amended to include within the definition of the United 
                States Capitol Grounds the parcels of Federal real 
                property described in subsection (b)(2)(B).
                    (B) Jurisdiction of capitol police.--The United 
                States Capitol Police shall have jurisdiction over the 
                parcels of Federal real property described in subsection 
                (b)(2)(B) in accordance with section 9 of such Act of 
                July 31, 1946 (40 U.S.C. 212a).
            (4) Effect of transfers.--A person relinquishing 
        jurisdiction over a parcel of Federal real property transferred 
        by subsection (b) shall not retain any interest in the parcel 
        except as specifically provided by this section.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 515. MANZANAR NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.

    (a) Termination of Withdrawals.--
            (1) Unavailability of certain lands.--The Congress, by 
        enacting the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Manzanar 
        National Historic Site in the State of California, and for other 
        purposes'', approved March 3, 1992 (106 Stat. 40; Public Law 
        102-248), (1) provided for the protection and interpretation of 
        the historical, cultural, and natural resources associated with 
        the relocation of Japanese-Americans during World War II and 
        established the Manzanar National Historic Site in the State of 
        California, and (2) authorized the Secretary of the Interior to 
        acquire lands or interests therein within the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4168]]

        boundary of the Historic Site by donation, purchase with donated 
        or appropriated funds, or by exchange. The public lands 
        identified for disposal in the Bureau of Land Management's 
        Bishop Resource Area Resource Management Plan that could be made 
        available for exchange in support of acquiring lands within the 
        boundary of the Historic Site are currently unavailable for this 
        purpose because they are withdrawn by an Act of Congress.
            (2) Termination of withdrawal.--To provide a land base with 
        which to allow land exchanges in support of acquiring lands 
        within the boundary of
the Manzanar National Historic Site, the withdrawal of the following 
described lands is terminated and such lands shall not be subject to the 
Act of March 4, 1931 (chapter 517; 46 Stat. 1530):

                          Mount Diablo Meridian

                     Township 2 North, Range 26 East

    Section 7:
            North half south half of lot 1 of southwest quarter, north 
        half south half of lot 2 of southwest quarter, north half south 
        half southeast quarter.

                     Township 4 South, Range 33 East

    Section 31:
            Lot 1 of southwest quarter, northwest quarter northeast 
        quarter, southeast quarter;

    Section 32:
            Southeast quarter northwest quarter, northeast quarter 
        southwest quarter, southwest quarter southeast quarter.

                     Township 5 South, Range 33 East

    Section 4:
            West half of lot 1 of northwest quarter, west half of lot 2 
        of northwest quarter.

    Section 5:
            East half of lot 1 of northeast quarter, east half of lot 2 
        of northeast quarter.

    Section 9:
            Northwest quarter southwest quarter northeast quarter.

    Section 17:
            Southeast quarter northwest quarter, northwest quarter 
        southeast quarter.

    Section 22:
            Lot 1 and 2.

    Section 27:
            Lot 2, west half northeast quarter, southeast quarter 
        northwest quarter, northeast quarter southwest quarter, 
        northwest quarter southeast quarter.

    Section 34:
            Northeast quarter, northwest quarter, southeast quarter.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4169]]

                     Township 6 South, Range 31 East

    Section 19:
            East half northeast quarter southeast quarter.

                     Township 6 South, Range 33 East

    Section 10:
            East half southeast quarter.

    Section 11:
            Lot 1 and 2, west half northeast quarter, northwest quarter, 
        west half southwest quarter, northeast quarter southwest 
        quarter.

    Section 14:
            Lots 1 through 4, west half northeast quarter, southeast 
        quarter northwest quarter, northeast quarter southwest 
        quarter, northwest quarter southeast quarter.

                     Township 7 South, Range 32 East

    Section 23:
            South half southwest quarter.

    Section 25:
            Lot 2, northeast quarter northwest quarter.

                     Township 7 South, Range 33 East

    Section 30:
            South half of lot 2 of northwest quarter, lot 1 and 2 of 
        southwest quarter.

    Section 31:
            North half of lot 2 of northwest quarter, southeast quarter 
        northeast quarter, northeast quarter southeast quarter.

                     Township 8 South, Range 33 East

    Section 5:
            Northwest quarter southwest quarter.

                    Township 13 South, Range 34 East

    Section 1:
            Lots 43, 46, and 49 through 51.

    Section 2:
            North half northwest quarter southeast quarter southeast 
        quarter.

                    Township 11 South, Range 35 East

    Section 30:
            Lots 1 and 2, east half northwest quarter, east half 
        southwest quarter, and west half southwest quarter southeast 
        quarter.

    Section 31:
            Lot 8, west half west half northeast quarter, east half 
        northwest quarter, and west half southeast quarter.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4170]]

                    Township 13 South, Range 35 East

    Section 18:
            South half of lot 2 of northwest quarter, lot 1 and 2 of 
        southwest quarter, southwest quarter northeast quarter, 
        northwest quarter southeast quarter.

    Section 29:
            Southeast quarter northeast quarter, northeast quarter 
        southeast quarter.

                    Township 13 South, Range 36 East

    Section 17:
            Southwest quarter northwest quarter, southwest quarter.

    Section 18:
            South half of lot 1 of northwest quarter, lot 1 of southwest 
        quarter, northeast quarter, southeast quarter.

    Section 19:
            North half of lot 1 of northwest quarter, east half 
        northeast quarter, northwest quarter northeast quarter.

    Section 20:
            Southwest quarter northeast quarter, northwest quarter, 
        northeast quarter southwest quarter, southeast quarter.

    Section 28:
            Southwest quarter southwest quarter.

    Section 29:
            East half northeast quarter.

    Section 33:
            Northwest quarter northwest quarter, southeast quarter 
        northwest quarter.

                    Township 14 South, Range 36 East

    Section 31:
            Lots 1 and 2 of southwest quarter, southwest quarter 
        southeast quarter.
        aggregating 5,630 acres, more or less.

<<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>     (b) Availability of 
Lands.--Upon enactment of this Act, the lands specified in subsection 
(a) shall be open to operation of the public land laws, including the 
mining and mineral leasing laws, only after the Secretary of the 
Interior has published a notice in the Federal Register opening such 
lands.

    (c) Additional Area.--Section 101 of Public Law 102-248 is amended 
by inserting in subsection (b) after the second sentence ``The site 
shall also include an additional area of approximately 300 acres as 
demarcated as the new proposed boundaries in the map dated March 8, 
1996, entitled `Manzanar National Historic Site Archaeological Base 
Map'.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>> SEC. 516. RECOGNITION AND DESIGNATION 
                        OF THE AIDS MEMORIAL GROVE AS NATIONAL 
                        MEMORIAL.

    (a) Recognition of Significance of the AIDS Memorial Grove.--The 
Congress hereby recognizes the significance of the AIDS Memorial Grove 
located in Golden Gate Park in San 
Francisco, California, as a memorial--
            (1) dedicated to individuals who have died as a result of 
        acquired immune deficiency syndrome; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4171]]

            (2) in support of individuals who are living with acquired 
        immune deficiency syndrome and their loved ones and caregivers.

    (b) Designation as National Memorial.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
designate the AIDS Memorial Grove as a national memorial.

               TITLE VI--CIVIL AND REVOLUTIONARY WAR SITES

SEC. 601. UNITED STATES CIVIL WAR CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The Civil War Center, located on Raphael Semmes 
Drive at Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, 
Louisiana (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``center'') 
shall be known and designated as the ``United States Civil War Center''.
    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, paper, 
record, map, or any other document of the United States to the center 
referred to in subsection (b) shall be deemed to be a reference to the 
``United States Civil War Center''.
    (c) Flagship Institutions.--The center and the Civil War Institute 
of Gettysburg College, located at 233 North Washington Street in 
Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, shall be the flagship institutions for 
planning the sesquicentennial commemoration of the Civil War.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 430f-5.>> SEC. 602. CORINTH, MISSISSIPPI, BATTLEFIELD 
            ACT.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to provide for a center 
for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of Corinth and other 
Civil War actions in the Region and to enhance 
public understanding of the significance of the Corinth Campaign in the 
Civil War relative to the Western theater of operations, in cooperation 
with State or local governmental entities and private organizations and 
individuals.
    (b) Acquisition of Property at Corinth, Mississippi.--The Secretary 
of the Interior (referred to in this title as the ``Secretary'') shall 
acquire by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or 
exchange, such land and interests in land in the vicinity of the Corinth 
Battlefield, in the State of Mississippi, as the 
Secretary determines to be necessary for the construction of an 
interpretive center to commemorate and interpret the 1862 Civil War 
Siege and Battle of Corinth.
    (c) Publicly Owned Land.--Land and interests in land owned by the 
State of Mississippi or a political subdivision of the State of 
Mississippi may be acquired only by donation.
    (d) Interpretive Center and Marking.--
            (1) Interpretive center.--The Secretary shall construct, 
        operate, and maintain on the property acquired under subsection 
        (b) a center for the interpretation of the Siege and Battle of 
        Corinth and associated historical events for the benefit of the 
        public.
            (2) Marking.--The Secretary may mark sites associated with 
        the Siege and Battle of Corinth National Historic Landmark, as 
        designated on May 6, 1991, if the sites are determined

[[Page 110 STAT. 4172]]

        by the Secretary to be protected by State or local governmental 
        agencies.
            (3) Administration.--The land and interests in land 
        acquired, and the facilities constructed and maintained pursuant 
        to this section, shall be administered by the Secretary as a 
        part of Shiloh National Military Park, subject to the 
        appropriate laws (including regulations) applicable to the Park, 
        the Act entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, 
        and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1 
        et seq.), and the Act entitled ``An Act to provide for the 
        preservation of historic American sites, buildings, objects, and 
        antiquities of national significance, and for other purposes'', 
        approved August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).

    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $6,000,000 for development to carry out this section.
<<NOTE: Revolutionary War and War of 1812 Historic Preservation 
                        Study Act of 1996. 16 USC 1a-5 
                        note.>> SEC. 603. REVOLUTIONARY WAR AND 
                        WAR OF 1812 HISTORIC PRESERVATION STUDY.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Revolutionary 
War and War of 1812 Historic Preservation Study Act of 1996''.
    (b) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) Revolutionary War sites and War of 1812 sites provide a 
        means for Americans to understand and interpret the periods in 
        American history during which the Revolutionary War and War of 
        1812 were fought;
            (2) the historical integrity of many Revolutionary War sites 
        and War of 1812 sites is at risk because many of the sites are 
        located in regions that are undergoing rapid urban or suburban 
        development; and
            (3) it is important, for the benefit of the United States, 
        to obtain current information on the significance of, threats to 
        the integrity of, and alternatives of the preservation and 
        interpretation of Revolutionary War sites and War of 1812 sites.

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the National Park Service.
            (2) Revolutionary war site.--The term ``Revolutionary War 
        site'' means a site or structure situated in the United States 
        that is thematically tied with the nationally significant events 
        that occurred during the Revolutionary War.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) War of 1812 site.--The term ``War of 1812 site'' means a 
        site or structure situated in the United States that is 
        thematically tied with the nationally significant events that 
        occurred during the War of 1812.

    (d) Study.--
            (1) Preparation.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director, shall prepare a study of Revolutionary War sites and 
        War of 1812 sites.
            (2) Matters to be addressed.--The study under subsection (b) 
        shall--
                    (A) identify Revolutionary War sites and War of 1812 
                sites, including sites within units of the National Park 
                System in existence on the date of enactment of this 
                Act;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4173]]

                    (B) determine the relative significance of the 
                sites;
                    (C) assess short- and long-term threats to the 
                integrity of the sites;
                    (D) provide alternatives for the preservation and 
                interpretation of the sites by Federal, State, and local 
                governments, or other public or private entities, 
                including designation of the sites as units of the 
                National Park System; and
                    (E) research and propose land preservation 
                techniques.
            (3) Consultation.--During the preparation of the study under 
        paragraph (1), the Director shall consult with--
                    (A) the Governor of each affected State;
                    (B) each affected unit of local government;
                    (C) State and local historic preservation 
                organizations;
                    (D) scholarly organizations; and
                    (E) such other interested parties as the Secretary 
                considers advisable.
            (4) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 2 years after 
        the date on which funds are made available to carry out the 
        study under paragraph (1), the Director shall transmit a report 
        describing the results of the study to the Committee on 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (5) Report.--If the Director submits a report on the study 
        to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the 
        Secretary shall concurrently transmit copies of the report to 
        the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.

    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $750,000, to remain available 
until expended.

<<NOTE: American Battlefield Protection Act of 1996. 16 USC 469k.>> SEC. 
            604. AMERICAN BATTLEFIELD PROTECTION PROGRAM.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``American 
Battlefield Protection Act of 1996''.

    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to assist citizens, 
public and private institutions, and governments at all levels in 
planning, interpreting, and protecting sites where historic battles were 
fought on American soil during the armed conflicts that shaped the 
growth and development of the United States, in order that present and 
future generations may learn and gain inspiration from the ground where 
Americans made their ultimate sacrifice.
    (c) Preservation Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Using the established national historic 
        preservation program to the extent practicable, the Secretary of 
        the Interior, acting through the American Battlefield Protection 
        Program, shall encourage, support, assist, recognize, and work 
        in partnership with citizens, Federal, State, local, and tribal 
        governments, other public entities, educational institutions, 
        and private nonprofit organizations in identifying, researching, 
        evaluating, interpreting, and protecting historic battlefields 
        and associated sites on a National, State, and local level.
            (2) Financial assistance.--To carry out paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary may use a cooperative agreement, grant,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4174]]

        contract, or other generally adopted means of providing 
        financial assistance.

    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $3,000,000 annually to carry out this section, to remain 
available until expended.
    (e) Repeal.--
            (1) In general.--This section is repealed as of the date 
        that is 10 years after the date of enactment of this section.
            (2) No effect on general authority.--The Secretary may 
        continue to conduct battlefield studies in accordance with other 
        authorities available to the Secretary.
            (3) Unobligated funds.--Any funds made available under this 
        section that remain unobligated shall be credited to the general 
        fund of the Treasury.
SEC. 605. CHICKAMAUGA AND CHATTANOOGA NATIONAL MILITARY PARKS.

    Section 1(c) of the Act entitled ``An Act to authorize and direct 
the National Park Service to assist the State of Georgia in relocating a 
highway affecting the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park 
in Georgia'', approved December 24, 1987 (101 Stat. 1442), is amended by 
striking ``$30,000,000'' and inserting ``$51,900,000''.

<<NOTE: Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District and 
            Commission Act of 1996. 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 606. 
            SHENANDOAH VALLEY BATTLEFIELDS.

    (a) Short title.--This section may be cited as the ``Shenandoah 
Valley Battlefields National Historic District and Commission Act of 
1996''.
    (b) Congressional Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) there are situated in the Shenandoah Valley in the 
        Commonwealth of Virginia the sites of several key Civil War 
        battles;
            (2) certain sites, battlefields, structures, and districts 
        in the Shenandoah Valley are collectively of national 
        significance in the history of the Civil War;
            (3) in 1992, the Secretary of the Interior issued a 
        comprehensive study of significant sites and structures 
        associated with Civil War battles in the Shenandoah Valley, and 
        found that many of the sites within the Shenandoah Valley 
        possess national significance and retain a high degree of 
        historical integrity;
            (4) the preservation and interpretation of these sites will 
        make a vital contribution to the understanding of the heritage 
        of the United States;
            (5) the preservation of Civil War sites within a regional 
        framework requires cooperation among local property owners and 
        Federal, State, and local government entities; and
            (6) partnerships between Federal, State, and local 
        governments, the regional entities of such governments, and the 
        private sector offer the most effective opportunities for the 
        enhancement and management of the Civil War battlefields and 
        related sites in the Shenandoah Valley.

    (c) Statement of Purpose.--The purposes of this section 
are to--
            (1) preserve, conserve, and interpret the legacy of the 
        Civil War in the Shenandoah Valley;
            (2) recognize and interpret important events and geographic 
        locations representing key Civil War battles in the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4175]]

        Shenandoah Valley, including those battlefields associated with 
        the Thomas J. (Stonewall) Jackson campaign of 1862 and the 
        decisive campaigns of 1864;
            (3) recognize and interpret the effect of the Civil War on 
        the civilian population of the Shenandoah Valley during the war 
        and postwar reconstruction period; and
            (4) create partnerships among Federal, State, and local 
        governments, the regional entities of such governments, and the 
        private sector to preserve, conserve, enhance, and interpret the 
        nationally significant battlefields and related sites 
        associated with the Civil War in the Shenandoah Valley.

    (d) Definitions.--As used in this section:
            (1) The term ``District'' means the Shenandoah Valley 
        Battlefields National Historic District established by 
        section 5.
            (2) The term ``Commission'' means the Shenandoah Valley 
        Battlefields National Historic District Commission established 
        by section 9.
            (3) The term ``plan'' means the Shenandoah Valley 
        Battlefields National Historic District Commission plan approved 
        by the Secretary under section 6.
            (4) The term ``management entity'' means a unit of 
        government or nonprofit organization designated by the plan to 
        manage and administer the District.
            (5) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (6) The term ``Shenandoah Valley'' means the Shenandoah 
        Valley in the Commonwealth of Virginia.

    (e) Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District.--
            (1) Establishment.--To carry out the purposes of this 
        section, there is hereby established the Shenandoah Valley 
        Battlefields National Historic District in the Commonwealth of 
        Virginia.
            (2) Boundaries.--(A) The corridor shall consist of lands and 
        interests therein as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Shenandoah Valley National Battlefields'', numbered SHVA/
        80,000, and dated April 1994.
            (B) The District shall consist of historic transportation 
        routes linking the units depicted on the map referred to in 
        subparagraph (A).
            (C) The map referred to in subparagraph (A) shall be on file 
        and available for public inspection in the offices of the 
        Commission, the management entity, and in the appropriate 
        offices of the National Park Service.

    (f) Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District 
Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The District shall be managed and 
        administered by the Commission and the management entity in 
        accordance with the purposes of this Act and the Shenandoah 
        Valley Battlefields National Historic District plan developed by 
        the
Commission and approved by the Secretary, as provided in this 
subsection.
            (2) Specific provisions.--The plan shall include--
                    (A) an inventory which includes any property in the 
                District which should be preserved, restored, managed,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4176]]

                maintained, or acquired because of its national historic 
                significance;
                    (B) provisions for the protection and interpretation 
                of the natural, cultural, and historic resources of the 
                District consistent with the purposes of this section;
                    (C) provisions for the establishment of a management 
                entity which shall be a unit of government or a private 
                nonprofit organization that administers and manages the 
                District consistent with the plan, and possesses the 
                legal ability to--
                          (i) receive Federal funds and funds from other 
                      units of government or other organizations for use 
                      in preparing and implementing the management plan;
                          (ii) disburse Federal funds to other units of 
                      government or other nonprofit organizations for 
                      use in preparing and implementing the plan;
                          (iii) enter into agreements with the Federal, 
                      State, or other units of government and nonprofit 
                      organizations;
                          (iv) acquire lands or interests therein by 
                      gift or devise, or by purchase from a willing 
                      seller using donated or appropriated funds, or by 
                      donation and no lands or interests therein may be 
                      acquired by 
                      condemnation; and
                          (v) make such reasonable and necessary 
                      modifications to the plan which shall be approved 
                      by the Secretary;
                    (D) recommendations to the Commonwealth of Virginia 
                (and political subdivisions thereof) for the management, 
                protection, and interpretation of the natural, cultural, 
                and historical resources of the District;
                    (E) identification of appropriate partnerships 
                between the Federal, State, and local governments and 
                regional entities, and the private sector, in 
                furtherance of the purposes of this section;
                    (F) locations for visitor contact and major 
                interpretive facilities;
                    (G) provisions for implementing a continuing program 
                of interpretation and visitor education concerning the 
                resources and values of the District;
                    (H) provisions for a uniform historical marker and 
                wayside exhibit program in the District, including a 
                provision for marking, with the consent of the owner, 
                historic structures and properties that are contained 
                within the historic core areas and contribute to the 
                understanding of the District;
                    (I) recommendations for means of ensuring continued 
                local involvement and participation in the management, 
                protection, and development of the District; and
                    (J) provisions for appropriate living history 
                demonstrations and battlefield reenactments.
            (3) Preparation of draft plan.--(A) Not later than 3 years 
        after the date on which the Commission conducts its first 
        meeting, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary a draft 
        plan that meets the requirements of paragraph (2).
            (B) Prior to submitting the draft plan to the Secretary, the 
        Commission shall ensure that--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4177]]

                    (i) the Commonwealth of Virginia, and any political 
                subdivision thereof that would be affected by the plan, 
                receives a copy of the draft plan;
                    (ii) adequate notice of the availability of the 
                draft plan is provided through publication in 
                appropriate local newspapers in the area of the 
                District; and
                    (iii) at least 1 public hearing in the vicinity of 
                the District is conducted by the Commission with respect 
                to the draft plan.
            (4) Review of the plan by the secretary.--The Secretary 
        shall review the draft plan submitted under paragraph (3) and, 
        not later than 90 days after the date on which the draft plan is 
        submitted, shall either--
                    (A) approve the draft plan as the plan if the 
                Secretary finds that the plan, when implemented, would 
                adequately protect the significant historical and 
                cultural resources of the District; or
                    (B) reject the draft plan and advise the Commission 
                in writing of the reasons therefore and indicate any 
                recommendations for revisions that would make the draft 
                plan acceptable.

    (g) Duties of the Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may award grants, provide 
        technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with 
        the Commission, management entity, other units of government, or 
        other persons to provide for the preservation and interpretation 
        of the natural, cultural, and historical resources within the 
        District.
            (2) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may make grants, 
        provide technical assistance, and enter into cooperative 
        agreements for--
                    (A) the preparation and implementation of the plan 
                pursuant to subsection (f);
                    (B) interpretive and educational programs;
                    (C) acquiring lands or interests in lands from 
                willing sellers;
                    (D) capital projects and improvements undertaken 
                pursuant to the plan; and
                    (E) facilitating public access to historic resources 
                within the District.
            (3) Early actions.--After enactment of this Act but prior to 
        approval of the plan, the Secretary may provide technical and 
        financial assistance for early actions which are important to 
        the purposes of this Act and which protect and preserve 
        resources in imminent danger of irreversible damage but for the 
        fact of such early action.
            (4) Acquisition of land.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
        interests in lands from a willing seller or donee within the 
        District that have been specifically identified by the 
        Commission for acquisition by the Federal Government. No lands 
        or interests therein may be acquired by condemnation.
            (5) Detail.--Each fiscal year during the existence of the 
        Commission and upon request of the Commission, the Secretary 
        shall detail to the Commission, on a nonreimbursable basis, 2 
        employees of the Department of the Interior to enable the 
        Commission to carry out the Commission's duties under section

[[Page 110 STAT. 4178]]

        9. Such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil 
        service status, benefits, or privileges.
            (6) Report.--Not later than 2 years after approval of the 
        plan, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
        recommending whether the District or components thereof meet the 
        criteria for designation as a unit of the National Park Service.
            (7) Other assistance.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        deemed to prohibit the Secretary or units of government from 
        providing technical or financial assistance under any other 
        provision of law.

    (h) Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District 
Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is hereby established the 
        Shenandoah Valley Battlefields National Historic District 
        Commission.
            (2) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 19 
        members, to be appointed by the Secretary as follows:
                    (A) 5 members representing local governments of 
                communities in the vicinity of the District, appointed 
                after the Secretary considers recommendations made by 
                appropriate local governing bodies.
                    (B) 10 members representing property owners within 
                the District (1 member within each unit of the 
                battlefields).
                    (C) 1 member with demonstrated expertise in historic 
                preservation.
                    (D) 1 member who is a recognized historian with 
                expertise in Civil War history.
                    (E) The Governor of Virginia, or a designee of the 
                Governor, ex officio.
                    (F) The Director of the National Park Service, or a 
                designee of the Director, ex officio.
            (3) Appointments.--Members of the Commission shall be 
        appointed for terms of 3 years. Any member of the Commission 
        appointed for a definite term may serve after the expiration of 
        the term until the successor of the member is appointed.
            (4) Election of officers.--The Commission shall elect 1 of 
        its members as Chairperson and 1 as Vice Chairperson. The Vice 
        Chairperson shall serve as Chairperson in the absence of the 
        Chairperson.
            (5) Vacancy.--Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made, 
        except that the Secretary shall fill any vacancy within 30 days 
        after the vacancy occurs.
            (6) Quorum.--Any majority of the Commission shall 
        constitute a quorum.
            (7) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson or a majority of the members of the Commission, but 
        not less than quarterly. Notice of the Commission meetings and 
        agendas for the meetings shall be published in local newspapers 
        that have a distribution throughout the Shenandoah Valley. 
        Meetings of the Commission shall be 
        subject to section 552b of title 5, United States Code (relating 
        to open meetings).
            (8) Staff of the commission.--The Commission shall have the 
        power to appoint and fix the compensation of such staff as may 
        be necessary to carry out its duties.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4179]]

            (9) Administrative support services.--The Administrator of 
        the General Services Administration shall provide to the 
        Commission, without reimbursement, such administrative 
        support services as the Commission may request.
            (10) Federal agencies.--Upon request of the Commission, the 
        head of any Federal agency may detail to the Commission or 
        management entity, without reimbursement, personnel of the 
        agency to assist the commission or management entity in carrying 
        out its duties and such detail shall be without interruption or 
        loss of civil service status, benefits, or privileges.
            (11) Subpoenas.--The Commission may not issue 
        subpoenas or exercise any subpoena authority.
            (12) Expenses.--Members of the Commission shall serve 
        without compensation, but the Secretary may reimburse 
        members for expenses reasonably incurred in carrying out the 
        responsibilities of the Commission under this Act.
            (13) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails 
        in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
            (14) Gifts.--The Commission may, for purposes of carrying 
        out the duties of the Commission, seek, accept, and dispose of 
        gifts, bequests, or donations of money, personal or real 
        property, or services received from any source.
            (15) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate at the 
        expiration of the 45-day period beginning on the date on which 
        the Secretary approves the plan under subsection (f)(4).

    (i) Duties of the Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall--
                    (A) develop the plan and draft plan referred to in 
                subsection (f), in consultation with the Secretary;
                    (B) assist the Commonwealth of Virginia, and any 
                political subdivision thereof, in the management, 
                protection, and interpretation of the natural, cultural, 
                and historical resources within the District, except 
                that the Commission shall in no way infringe upon the 
                authorities and policies of the Commonwealth of Virginia 
                or any 
                political subdivision; and
                    (C) take appropriate action to encourage protection 
                of the natural, cultural, and historic resources within 
                the District by landowners, local governments, 
                organizations, and businesses.

    (j) Authorization of Appropriation.--
            (1) In general.--From the amounts made available to carry 
        out the National Historic Preservation Act, there are authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Commission not more than $250,000 
        annually to remain available until expended.
            (2) Assistance.--(A) From the amounts made available to 
        carry out the National Historic Preservation Act, there are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for grants and 
        technical assistance pursuant to subsections (g) (1), (2), and 
        (3) not more than $2,000,000 annually to remain available until 
        expended.
            (B) The Federal share of any funds awarded under 
        subsection (g)(2) may not exceed the amount of non-Federal funds 
        provided for the preservation, interpretation, planning, 
        development, or implementation with respect to which the grant 
        is awarded.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4180]]

            (3) Land acquisition.--From the amounts made available to 
        carry out the National Historic Preservation Act, there are 
        authorized to be appropriated for land acquisition pursuant to 
        subsection (g)(4) not more than $2,000,000 annually to remain 
        available until expended.
            (4) Management entity.--From the amounts made 
        available to carry out the National Historic Preservation Act, 
        there are authorized to be appropriated to the management entity 
        not more than $500,000 annually to remain available until 
        expended.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>> SEC. 607. WASHITA BATTLEFIELD.

    (a) Findings and Purposes.--
            (1) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
                    (A) the Battle of the Washita, November 27, 1868, 
                was one of the largest engagements between Plains tribes 
                and the United States Army on the Southern Great Plains. 
                The site is a registered National Historic Landmark;
                    (B) Lt. Colonel George A. Custer, leading the 7th 
                United States Cavalry, attacked the sleeping Cheyenne 
                village of peace chief Black Kettle. Custer's attack 
                resulted in more than 150 Indian casualties, many of 
                them women and children;
                    (C) the Battle of the Washita symbolizes the 
                struggle of the Southern Great Plains tribes to maintain 
                their 
                traditional lifeways and not to submit to reservation 
                confinement; and
                    (D) the Washita battle site possesses a high degree 
                of integrity and the cultural landscape is essentially 
                intact. The Cheyenne village site has not been altered 
                substantially except by periodic flooding of the Washita 
                River.
            (2) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are to--
                    (A) recognize the importance of the Battle of the 
                Washita as a nationally significant element of frontier 
                military history and as a symbol of the struggles of the 
                Southern Great Plains tribes to maintain control of 
                their traditional use areas; and
                    (B) establish the site of the Battle of the Washita 
                as a national historic site and provide opportunities 
                for American Indian groups including the Cheyenne-
                Arapaho Tribe to be involved in the formulation of plans 
                and 
                educational programs for the national historic site.

    (b) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--In order to provide for the preservation 
        and interpretation of the Battle of the Washita, there is hereby 
        established the Washita Battlefield National Historic Site in 
        the State of Oklahoma (hereafter in this section referred to as 
        the ``national historic site'').
            (2) Boundary.--
                    (A) In general.--The national historic site shall 
                consist of--
                          (i) approximately 326 acres, as generally 
                      depicted on the map entitled ``Washita Battlefield 
                      National 
                      Historic Site'', numbered 22,000A and dated 12/95; 
                      and
                          (ii) the private lands subject to conservation 
                      easements referred to in subsection (d)(2).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4181]]

                    (B) Map.--The map referred to in subparagraph (A)(i) 
                shall be on file in the offices of the Director of the 
                National Park Service, Department of the Interior, and 
                other appropriate offices of the National Park Service. 
                The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this section 
                referred to as the ``Secretary'') may, from time to 
                time, make minor 
                revisions in the boundary of the national historic site 
                in accordance with section 7(c) of the Land and Water 
                Conservation Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-4 et seq.).

    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director of the National Park Service, shall manage the national 
        historic site in accordance with this section and the provisions 
        of law generally applicable to units of the National Park 
        System, including ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, 
        and for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 
        535; 16 U.S.C. 1, 2-4), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 
        666; U.S.C. 461-467).
            (2) Management purposes.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        national historic site for the following purposes, among others:
                    (A) To protect and preserve the national historic 
                site, including the topographic features important to 
                the battle site, artifacts and other physical remains of 
                the battle, and the visual scene as closely as possible 
                as it was at the time of the battle.
                    (B) To interpret the cultural and natural resources 
                of the historic site, providing for public understanding 
                and appreciation of the area in such manner as to 
                perpetuate these qualities and values for future 
                generations.
            (3) Consultation and training.--The Secretary, acting 
        through the Director of the National Park Service, shall consult 
        regularly with the Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribe on the formulation of 
        the management plan provisions referred to in subsection (e)(5) 
        and on preparation of educational programs provided to the 
        public. <<NOTE: Contracts.>>  The Secretary is authorized to 
        enter into 
        cooperative agreements with the Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribe, its 
        subordinate boards, committees, enterprises, and traditional 
        leaders to further the purposes of this Act.

    (d) Acquisition of Property.--
            (1) Park boundaries.--Within the boundaries of the national 
        historic site, the Secretary is authorized to acquire lands and 
        interests in lands by donation, purchase with donated or 
        appropriated funds, or exchange, except that--
                    (A) no lands or interests in lands within the 
                historic site may be acquired without the consent of the 
                owner thereof, and
                    (B) lands and interests in lands owned by the State 
                of Oklahoma or any political subdivision thereof may be 
                acquired only by donation.
            (2) Conservation easements.--The Congress finds that the 
        State of Oklahoma, acting through the Oklahoma Historical 
        Society, will work with local land owners to acquire and hold in 
        perpetuity conservation easements in the vicinity of the 
        national historic site as deemed necessary for the visual and 
        interpretive integrity of the site. The intent of the easements

[[Page 110 STAT. 4182]]

        will be to keep occupancy of the land in private ownership and 
        use of the land in general agriculture.

    (e) Management Plan.--Within 5 years after the date funds are made 
available for purposes of this section, the Secretary, acting through 
the Director of the National Park Service, shall prepare a general 
management plan for the national historic site. The plan shall address, 
but not be limited to, each of the following:
            (1) A resource protection program.
            (2) A visitor use plan including programs and facilities 
        that will be provided for public use, including the location and 
        cost of public facilities.
            (3) A research and curation plan.
            (4) A highway signing program.
            (5) Involvement by the Cheyenne-Arapaho Tribe in the 
        formulation of educational programs for the national historic 
        site.
            (6) Involvement by the State of Oklahoma and other local and 
        national entities willing to share in the responsibilities of 
        developing and supporting the national historic site.

    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section for land acquisition and 
development not more than $5,000,000.

                             TITLE VII--FEES

<<NOTE: 16 USC 497c.>> SEC. 701. SKI AREA PERMIT RENTAL CHARGE.

    (a) The Secretary of Agriculture shall charge a rental charge for 
all ski area permits issued pursuant to section 3 of the National Forest 
Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 497b), the Act of March 4, 1915 
(38 Stat. 1101, chapter 144; 16 U.S.C. 497), or the 9th through 20th 
paragraphs under the heading ``SURVEYING THE PUBLIC LANDS'' under the 
heading ``UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'' in the Act of June 4, 
1897 (30 Stat. 34, chapter 2), on National Forest System lands. Permit 
rental charges for permits issued pursuant to the National Forest Ski 
Area Permit Act of 1986 shall be calculated as set forth in subsection 
(b). Permit rental charges for existing ski area permits issued pursuant 
to the Act of March 4, 1915, and the Act of June 4, 1897, shall be 
calculated in accordance with those existing permits: Provided, That a 
permittee may, at the permittee's option, use the calculation method set 
forth in subsection (b).
    (b)(1) The ski area permit rental charge (SAPRC) shall be calculated 
by adding the permittee's gross revenues from lift ticket/year-round ski 
area use pass sales plus revenue from ski school operations (LT+SS) and 
multiplying such total by the slope transport feet percentage (STFP) on 
National Forest System land. That amount shall be increased by the gross 
year-round revenue from ancillary facilities (GRAF) physically located 
on national forest land, including all permittee or subpermittee 
lodging, food service, rental shops, parking and other ancillary 
operations, to determine the adjusted gross revenue (AGR) subject to the 
permit rental charge. The final rental charge shall be calculated by 
multiplying the AGR by the following percentages for each revenue 
bracket and adding the total for each revenue bracket:
            (A) 1.5 percent of all adjusted gross revenue below 
        $3,000,000;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4183]]

            (B) 2.5 percent for adjusted gross revenue between 
        $3,000,000 and $15,000,000;
            (C) 2.75 percent for adjusted gross revenue between 
        $15,000,000 and $50,000,000; and
            (D) 4.0 percent for the amount of adjusted gross revenue 
        that exceeds $50,000,000.

Utilizing the abbreviations indicated in this subsection the ski area 
permit fee (SAPF) formula can be simply illustrated as:

 sapf = ((lt + ss) <dbl-dagger> stfp) + graf = agr; agr <dbl-dagger> % 
                                brackets

    (2) In cases where ski areas are only partially located on national 
forest lands, the slope transport feet percentage on national forest 
land referred to in subsection (b)
shall be calculated as generally described in the Forest Service Manual 
in effect as of January 1, 1992. Revenues from Nordic ski operations 
shall be included or excluded from the rental charge calculation 
according to the percentage of trails physically located on national 
forest land.

    (3) In order to ensure that the rental charge remains fair and 
equitable to both the United States and the ski area permittees, the 
adjusted gross revenue figures for each revenue bracket in paragraph (1) 
shall be adjusted annually by the percent increase or decrease in the 
national Consumer Price Index for the preceding calendar year. No later 
than 3 years <<NOTE: Reports.>>  after the date of enactment of this Act 
and every 5 years thereafter the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States Senate and the 
Committee on Resources of the United States House of Representatives a 
report analyzing whether the ski area permit rental charge legislated by 
this Act is returning a fair market value rental to the United States 
together with any 
recommendations the Secretary may have for modifications of the system.

    (c) The rental charge set forth in subsection (b) shall be due on 
June 1 of each year and shall be paid or prepaid by the permittee on a 
monthly, quarterly, annual or other schedule as determined appropriate 
by the Secretary in consultation with the permittee. Unless mutually 
agreed otherwise by the Secretary and the 
permittee, the payment or prepayment schedule shall conform to the 
permittee's schedule in effect prior to enactment of this Act. To reduce 
costs to the permittee and the Forest Service, the Secretary shall each 
year provide the permittee with a standardized form and worksheets 
(including annual rental charge calculation brackets and rates) to be 
used for rental charge calculation and submitted with the rental charge 
payment. Information provided on such forms shall be compiled by the 
Secretary annually and kept in the Office of the Chief, United States 
Forest Service.
    (d) The ski area permit rental charge set forth in this section 
shall become effective on June 1, 1996 and cover receipts retroactive to 
June 1, 1995: Provided, That if a permittee has paid rental charges for 
the period June 1, 1995, to June 1, 1996, under the graduated rate 
rental charge system formula in effect prior to the date of enactment of 
this Act, such rental charges shall be credited toward the new rental 
charge due on June 1, 1996. In order to ensure increasing rental charge 
receipt levels to the United States during transition from the graduated 
rate rental charge system formula to the formula of this Act, the rental 
charge paid by any individual permittee shall be--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4184]]

            (1) for the 1995-1996 permit year, either the rental charge 
        paid for the preceding 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge 
        calculated pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher;
            (2) for the 1996-1997 permit year, either the rental charge 
        paid for the 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge calculated 
        pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher; and
            (3) for the 1997-1998 permit year, either the rental charge 
        for the 1994-1995 base year or the rental charge calculated 
        pursuant to this Act, whichever is higher.

If an individual permittee's adjusted gross revenue for the 1995-1996, 
1996-1997, or 1997-1998 permit years falls more than 10 percent below 
the 1994-1995 base year, the rental charge paid shall be the rental 
charge calculated pursuant to this Act.
    (e) Under no circumstances shall revenue, or subpermittee 
revenue (other than lift ticket, area use pass, or ski school sales) 
obtained from operations physically located on non-national forest land 
be included in the ski area permit rental charge calculation.
    (f) To reduce administrative costs of ski area permittees and the 
Forest Service the terms ``revenue'' and ``sales'', as used in this 
section, shall mean actual income
from sales and shall not include sales of operating equipment, refunds, 
rent paid to the permittee by sublessees, sponsor contributions to 
special events or any amounts attributable to employee gratuities or 
employee lift tickets, discounts, or other goods or services (except for 
bartered goods and complimentary lift tickets) for which the permittee 
does not receive money.

    (g) In cases where an area of national forest land is under a ski 
area permit but the permittee does not have revenue or sales qualifying 
for rental charge payment pursuant to subsection (a), the permittee 
shall pay an annual minimum rental charge of $2 for each national forest 
acre under permit or a percentage of appraised land value, as determined 
appropriate by the Secretary.
    (h) Where the new rental charge provided for in subsection (b)(1) 
results in an increase in permit rental charge greater than one-half of 
1 percent of the permittee's adjusted gross revenue as determined under 
subsection (b)(1), the new rental charge shall be phased in over a five-
year period in a manner providing for increases of approximately equal 
increments.
    (i) To reduce Federal costs in administering the provisions of this 
Act, the reissuance of a ski area permit to provide activities similar 
in nature and amount to the activities provided under the previous 
permit shall not constitute a major Federal action for the purposes of 
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq.).
    (j) Subject to valid existing rights, all lands located within the 
boundaries of ski area permits issued prior to, on or after the date of 
enactment of this Act pursuant to authority of the Act of March 4, 1915 
(38 Stat. 1101, chapter 144; 16 U.S.C. 497), and the Act of June 4, 
1897, or the National Forest Ski Area Permit Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 
497b) are hereby and henceforth automatically withdrawn from all forms 
of appropriation under the mining laws and from disposition under all 
laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing and all amendments 
thereto. Such withdrawal shall continue for the full term of the permit 
and any modification, reissuance, or renewal thereof. Unless the 
Secretary requests otherwise of the Secretary of the Interior, such 
withdrawal shall be canceled automatically upon expiration or other

[[Page 110 STAT. 4185]]

termination of the permit and the land automatically restored to all 
appropriation not otherwise restricted under the public land laws.

SEC. 702. DELAWARE WATER GAP.

<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     (a) In General.--Effective at noon on 
September 30, 2005, the use of Highway 209 within Delaware Water Gap 
National Recreation Area by commercial vehicles, when such use is not 
connected with the operation of the recreation area, is prohibited, 
except as provided in subsection (b).

    (b) Local Business Use Protected.--Subsection (a) does not apply 
with respect to the use of commercial vehicles to serve businesses 
located within or in the vicinity of the recreation area, as determined 
by the Secretary.
    (c) Conforming Provisions.--
          (1) Paragraphs (1) through (3) of the third undesignated 
        paragraph under the heading ``ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS'' in 
        chapter VII of title I of Public Law 98-63 (97 Stat. 329) are 
        repealed, effective September 30, 2005.
            (2) Prior to noon on September 30, 2005, the Secretary shall 
        collect and utilize a commercial use fee from commercial 
        vehicles in accordance with paragraphs (1) through (3) of such 
        third undesignated paragraph. Such fee shall not exceed $25 per 
        trip.

SEC. 703. GLACIER BAY NATIONAL PARK.

    Section 3(g) of Public Law 91-383 (16 U.S.C. 1a-2(g)) is 
amended by: striking ``and park programs'' and inserting the following 
at the end: ``Sixty percent of the fees paid by permittees for the 
privilege of entering into Glacier Bay for the period beginning on the 
first full fiscal year following the date of enactment of this sentence 
shall be deposited into a special account and that such funds shall be 
available--
            ``(1) to the extent determined necessary, to acquire and 
        preposition necessary and adequate emergency response equipment 
        to prevent harm or the threat of harm to aquatic park resources 
        from permittees; and
            ``(2) to conduct investigations to quantify any effect of 
        permittees' activity on wildlife and other natural resource 
        values of Glacier Bay National Park. The investigations provided 
        for in this subsection shall be designed to provide information 
        of value to the Secretary, in determining any appropriate 
        limitations on permittees' activity in Glacier Bay. The 
        Secretary may not impose any additional permittee operating 
        conditions in the areas of air, water, and oil pollution beyond 
        those determined and enforced by other appropriate agencies. 
        When competitively awarding permits to enter Glacier Bay, the 
        Secretary may take into account the relative impact particular 
        permittees will have on park values and resources, provided that 
        no operating conditions or limitations relating to noise 
        abatement shall be imposed unless the Secretary determines, 
        based on the weight of the evidence from all available studies 
        including verifiable scientific information from the 
        investigations provided for in this subsection, that such 
        limitations or conditions are necessary to protect park values 
        and resources. Fees paid by certain permittees for the privilege 
        of entering into Glacier Bay shall not exceed $5 per passenger. 
        For the purposes of this subsection, `certain permittee' shall

[[Page 110 STAT. 4186]]

        mean a permittee which provides overnight accommodations for at 
        least 500 passengers for an itinerary of at least 3 nights, and 
        `permittee' shall mean a concessionaire providing visitor 
        services within Glacier Bay. Nothing in this subsection 
        authorizes the Secretary to require additional categories of 
        permits in, or otherwise increase the number of permits to enter 
        Glacier Bay National Park.''.

   TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE AND MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS

SEC. 801. LIMITATION ON PARK BUILDINGS.

    The 10th undesignated paragraph (relating to a limitation on the 
expenditure of funds for park buildings) under the heading 
``MISCELLANEOUS OBJECTS, DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'', which appears 
under the heading ``UNDER THE DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR'', as contained 
in the first section of the Act of August 24, 1912 (37 Stat. 460), as 
amended (16 U.S.C. 451), is hereby repealed.

SEC. 802. APPROPRIATIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION OF CHILDREN.

    The first section of the Act of August 7, 1946 (16 U.S.C. 
17j-2), is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) Provide transportation for children in nearby communities to 
and from any unit of the National Park System used in connection with 
organized recreation and interpretive programs of the National Park 
Service.''.

SEC. 803. FERAL BURROS AND HORSES.

    (a) Vehicles and Aircraft.--Section 9 of the Act of December 15, 
1971 (16 U.S.C. 1338a), is amended by adding at the end thereof the 
following: ``Nothing in this title shall be deemed to limit the 
authority of the Secretary in the management of units of the National 
Park System, and the Secretary may, without regard either to the 
provisions of this title, or the provisions of section 47(a) of title 
18, United States Code, use motor vehicles, fixed-wing aircraft, or 
helicopters, or to contract for such use, in furtherance of the 
management of the National Park System, and section 47(a) of title 18, 
United States Code, shall be applicable to such use.''.
    (b) Ozark National Scenic Riverways.--Section 7 of the Act entitled 
``An Act to provide for the establishment of the Ozark National Scenic 
Riverways in the State of Missouri, and for other purposes'', approved 
August 27, 1964 (16 U.S.C. 460m-6), is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``Sec. 7. (a) The Secretary, in accordance with this section, shall 
allow free-roaming horses in the Ozark National Scenic Riverways. 
Within <<NOTE: Contracts.>> 180 days after enactment of this section, 
the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with the Missouri Wild Horse 
League or another qualified nonprofit entity to provide for management 
of free-roaming horses. The agreement shall provide for cost-effective 
management of the horses and limit Federal expenditures to the costs of 
monitoring the agreement. The Secretary shall issue permits for adequate 
pastures to accommodate

[[Page 110 STAT. 4187]]

the historic population level of the free-roaming horse herd, which 
shall be not less than the number of horses in existence on the date of 
the enactment of this section nor more than 50.

    ``(b) The Secretary may not remove, or assist in, or permit the 
removal of any free-roaming horses from Federal lands within the 
boundary of the Ozark National Scenic Riverways unless--
            ``(1) the entity with whom the Secretary has entered into 
        the agreement under subsection (a), following notice and a 90-
        day response period, substantially fails to meet the terms and 
        conditions of the agreement;
            ``(2) the number of free-roaming horses exceeds 50; or
            ``(3) in the case of an emergency or to protect public 
        health and safety, as defined in the agreement.

    ``(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed as creating 
liability for the United States for any damages caused by the free-
roaming horses to property located inside or outside the boundaries of 
the Ozark National Scenic Riverways.''.
SEC. 804. AUTHORITIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR RELATING TO 
                        MUSEUMS.

    (a) Functions.--The Act entitled ``An Act to increase the public 
benefits from the National Park System by facilitating the management of 
museum properties relating thereto, and for other purposes'' approved 
July 1, 1955 (16 U.S.C. 18f), is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b) of the first section, by striking out 
        ``from such donations and bequests of money''; and
            (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 18f-2.>> ``SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL FUNCTIONS.

    ``(a) Museum Objects and Collections.--In addition to the functions 
specified in the first section of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior may perform the following functions in such manner as he shall 
consider to be in the public interest:
            ``(1) Transfer museum objects and museum collections that 
        the Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum 
        purposes to qualified Federal agencies, including the 
        Smithsonian Institution, that have programs to preserve and 
        interpret cultural or natural heritage, and accept the transfer 
        of museum objects and museum collections for the purposes of 
        this Act from any other Federal agency, without reimbursement. 
        The head of any other Federal agency may transfer, without 
        reimbursement, museum objects and museum collections directly to 
        the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior 
        for the purpose of this Act.
            ``(2) Convey museum objects and museum collections that the 
        Secretary determines are no longer needed for museum purposes, 
        without monetary consideration but subject to such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary deems necessary, to private 
        institutions exempt from Federal taxation under section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and to non-
        Federal governmental entities if the Secretary determines that 
        the recipient is dedicated to the preservation and 
        interpretation of natural or cultural heritage and is qualified 
        to manage the property, prior to any conveyance under this 
        subsection.
            ``(3) Destroy or cause to be destroyed museum objects and 
        museum collections that the Secretary determines to have no 
        scientific, cultural, historic, educational, esthetic, or 
        monetary value.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4188]]

    ``(b) Review and Approval.--The Secretary shall ensure that museum 
collections are treated in a careful and deliberate manner that protects 
the public interest. Prior to taking any action under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall establish a systematic review and approval process, 
including consultation with appropriate experts, that meets the highest 
standards of the museum profession for all actions taken under this 
section.''.
    (b) Application and Definitions.--The Act entitled ``An Act to 
increase the public benefits from the National Park System by 
facilitating the management of museum properties relating thereto, and 
for other purposes'' approved July 1, 1955 (16 U.S.C. 18f), as amended 
by subsection (a), is further amended by adding the following after 
section 2:

<<NOTE: 16 USC 18f-3.>> ``SEC. 3. APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS.

    ``(a) Application.--Authorities in this Act shall be available to 
the Secretary of the Interior with regard to museum objects and museum 
collections that were under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
Secretary for the purposes of the National Park System before the date 
of enactment of this section as well as those museum objects and museum 
collections that may be acquired on or after such date.
    ``(b) Definition.--For the purposes of this Act, the terms `museum 
objects' and `museum collections' mean objects that are eligible to be 
or are made part of a museum, library, or archive collection through a 
formal procedure, such as accessioning. Such objects are usually movable 
and include but are not limited to prehistoric and historic artifacts, 
works of art, books, documents, photographs, and natural history 
specimens.''.

SEC. 805. VOLUNTEERS IN PARKS INCREASE.

    Section 4 of the Volunteers in the Parks Act of 1969 (16 U.S.C. 18j) 
is amended by striking out ``$1,000,000'' and inserting in lieu thereof 
``$3,500,000''.

SEC. 806. CARL GARNER FEDERAL LANDS CLEANUP DAY.

    The Federal Lands Cleanup Act of 1985 (36 U.S.C. 169i-
169-1) is amended <<NOTE: 36 USC 169i, 169i-1.>>  by striking the terms 
``Federal Lands Cleanup Day'' each place it appears and inserting ``Carl 
Garner Federal Lands Cleanup Day''.

SEC. 807. FORT PULASKI NATIONAL MONUMENT, GEORGIA.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>>     Section 4 of the Act of June 26, 1936 
(ch. 844; 49 Stat. 1979), is amended by striking ``: Provided, That'' 
and all that follows and inserting a period.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 230 note.>> SEC. 808. LAURA C. HUDSON VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The visitor center at Jean Lafitte National 
Historical Park, located at 419 Rue Decatur in New Orleans, 
Louisiana, is hereby designated as the ``Laura C. Hudson Visitor 
Center''.
    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, paper, 
record, map, or any other document of the United States to the visitor 
center referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Laura C. Hudson Visitor Center''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4189]]

<<NOTE: 16 USC 410ff note.>> SEC. 809. ROBERT J. LAGOMARSINO 
                        VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The visitor center at the Channel Islands National 
Park, California, is designated as the ``Robert J. 
Lagomarsino Visitor Center''.
    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, 
document, record, map, or other document of the United States to the 
visitor center referred to in section 301 is deemed to be a reference to 
the ``Robert J. Lagomarsino Visitor Center''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 195 note.>> SEC. 810. EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS OUTSIDE 
                        AUTHORIZED BOUNDARY OF ROCKY MOUNTAIN 
                        NATIONAL PARK.

    The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to collect and expend 
donated funds and expend appropriated funds for the operation and 
maintenance of a visitor center to be constructed for visitors to and 
administration of Rocky Mountain National Park with 
private funds on privately owned lands located outside the boundary of 
the park.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 410ww-21.>> SEC. 811. DAYTON AVIATION.

    Section 201(b) of the Dayton Aviation Heritage Preservation Act of 
1992 (Public Law 102-419, approved October 16, 1992), is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In paragraph (2), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (2) In paragraph (4), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (3) In paragraph (5), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (4) In paragraph (6), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
            (5) In paragraph (7), by striking ``from recommendations'' 
        and inserting ``after consideration of recommendations''.
SEC. 812. PROHIBITION ON CERTAIN TRANSFERS OF NATIONAL 
                        FOREST LANDS.

    After the date of the enactment of this Act the Secretary of 
Agriculture shall not transfer (by exchange or otherwise) any lands 
owned by the United States and managed by the Secretary as part of the 
Angeles National Forest to any person unless the instrument of 
conveyance contains a restriction, enforceable by the Secretary, on the 
future use of such land prohibiting the use of any portion of such land 
as a solid waste landfill. Such restriction shall be promptly enforced 
by the Secretary when and if a violation of the restriction occurs.

SEC. 813. GRAND LAKE CEMETERY.

    (a) Agreement.--Notwithstanding any other law, not later than 6 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall enter into an appropriate form of agreement with the town 
of Grand Lake, Colorado, authorizing the town to maintain permanently, 
under appropriate terms and conditions, a cemetery within the boundaries 
of the Rocky Mountain National Park.
    (b) Cemetery Boundaries.--The cemetery shall be comprised of 
approximately 5 acres of land, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Grand Lake Cemetery'' and dated February 1995.
    (c) Availability for Public Inspection.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall place the map described in subsection (b) on

[[Page 110 STAT. 4190]]

file, and make the map available for public inspection, in the 
headquarters office of the Rocky Mountain National Park.
    (d) Limitation.--The cemetery shall not be extended beyond the 
boundaries of the cemetery shown on the map described in subsection (b).

SEC. 814. NATIONAL PARK SERVICE ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 17o. note.>>     (a) National Park Service Housing 
Improvement.--
            (1) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
                    (A) to develop where necessary an adequate supply of 
                quality housing units for field employees of the 
                National Park Service within a reasonable time frame;
                    (B) to expand the alternatives available for 
                construction and repair of essential Government housing;
                    (C) to rely on the private sector to finance or 
                supply housing in carrying out this section, to the 
                maximum extent possible, in order to reduce the need for 
                Federal appropriations;
                    (D) to ensure that adequate funds are available to 
                provide for long-term maintenance needs of field 
                employee housing; and
                    (E) to eliminate unnecessary Government housing and 
                locate such housing as is required in a manner such that 
                primary resource values are not impaired.
            (2) General authority.--To enhance the ability of the 
        Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this subsection referred 
        to as ``the Secretary''), acting through the Director of the 
        National Park Service, to effectively manage units of the 
        National Park System, the Secretary is authorized where 
        necessary and justified to make available employee housing, on 
        or off the lands under the administrative jurisdiction of the 
        National Park Service, and to rent or lease such housing to 
        field employees of the National Park Service at rates based on 
        the reasonable value of the housing in accordance with 
        requirements applicable under section 5911 of title 5, United 
        States Code.
            (3) Review and revision of housing criteria.--Upon the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall review and revise the 
        existing criteria under which housing is provided to employees 
        of the National Park Service. Specifically, the Secretary shall 
        examine the existing criteria with respect to what circumstances 
        the National Park Service requires an employee to occupy 
        Government quarters to provide necessary services, protect 
        Government property, or because of a lack of availability of 
        non-Federal housing in the geographic area.
            (4) Submission of report.--A report detailing the results of 
        the revisions required by paragraph (3) shall be submitted to 
        the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate not 
        later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
        The report shall include justifications for keeping, or for 
        changing, each of the criteria or factors used by the Department 
        of the Interior with regard to the provision of housing to 
        employees of the National Park Service.
            (5) Review of condition of and costs relating to 
        housing.--Using the revised criteria developed under paragraph 
        (3), the Secretary shall undertake a review, for each

[[Page 110 STAT. 4191]]

        unit of the National Park System, of existing government-owned 
        housing provided to employees of the National Park Service. The 
        review shall include an assessment of the physical condition of 
        such housing and the suitability of such housing to effectively 
        carry out the missions of the Department of the Interior and the 
        National Park Service. For each unit of such housing, the 
        Secretary shall determine whether the unit is needed and 
        justified. The review shall include estimates of the cost of 
        bringing each unit that is needed and justified into usable 
        condition that meets all applicable legal housing requirements 
        or, if the unit is determined to be obsolete but is still 
        warranted to carry out the missions of the Department of the 
        Interior and the National Park Service, the cost of replacing 
        the unit.
            (6) Authorization for housing agreements.--For those units 
        of the National Park System for which the review required by 
        paragraphs (3) and (5) has been completed, the Secretary is 
        authorized, pursuant to the authorities contained in this 
        subsection and subject to the appropriation of necessary funds 
        in advance, to enter into housing agreements with housing 
        entities under which such housing entities may develop, 
        construct, rehabilitate, or manage housing, located on or off 
        public lands, for rent or lease to National Park Service 
        employees who meet the housing eligibility criteria developed by 
        the 
        Secretary pursuant to this Act.
            (7) Joint public-private sector housing programs.--
                    (A) Lease to build program.--Subject to the 
                appropriation of necessary funds in advance, the 
                Secretary may--
                          (i) lease Federal land and interests in land 
                      to qualified persons for the construction of field 
                      employee quarters for any period not to exceed 50 
                      years; and
                          (ii) lease developed and undeveloped non-
                      Federal land for providing field employee 
                      quarters.
                    (B) Comptetitive leasing.--Each lease under 
                subparagraph (A)(i) shall be awarded through the use of 
                publicly advertised, competitively bid, or competitively 
                negotiated contracting procedures.
                    (C) Terms and conditions.--Each lease under 
                subparagraph (A)(i)--
                          (i) shall stipulate whether operation and 
                      maintenance of field employee quarters is to be 
                      provided by the lessee, field employees or the 
                      Federal Government;
                          (ii) shall require that the construction and 
                      rehabilitation of field employee quarters be done 
                      in accordance with the requirements of the 
                      National Park Service and local applicable 
                      building codes and industry standards;
                          (iii) shall contain such additional terms and 
                      conditions as may be appropriate to protect the 
                      Federal interest, including limits on rents the 
                      lessee may charge field employees for the 
                      occupancy of quarters, conditions on maintenance 
                      and repairs, and agreements on the provision of 
                      charges for utilities and other infrastructure; 
                      and
                          (iv) may be granted at less than fair market 
                      value if the Secretary determines that such lease 
                      will

[[Page 110 STAT. 4192]]

                      improve the quality and availability of field 
                      employee quarters available.
                    (D) Contributions by united states.--The Secretary 
                may make payments, subject to appropriations, or 
                contributions in kind either in advance of or on a 
                continuing basis to reduce the costs of planning, 
                construction, or rehabilitation of quarters on or off 
                Federal lands under a lease under this paragraph.
            (8) Rental guarantee program.--
                    (A) General authority.--Subject to the appropriation 
                of necessary funds in advance, the Secretary may enter 
                into a lease to build arrangement as set forth in 
                paragraph (7) with further agreement to guarantee the 
                occupancy of field employee quarters constructed or 
                rehabilitated under such lease. A guarantee made under 
                this paragraph shall be in writing.
                    (B) Limitations.--The Secretary may not guarantee--
                          (i) the occupancy of more than 75 percent of 
                      the units constructed or rehabilitated under such 
                      lease; and
                          (ii) at a rental rate that exceeds the rate 
                      based on the reasonable value of the housing in 
                      accordance with requirements applicable under 
                      section 5911 of title 5, United States Code.
                In no event shall outstanding guarantees be in excess of 
                $3,000,000,
                    (C) Rental to government employees.--A guarantee may 
                be made under this subsection only if the lessee agrees 
                to permit the Secretary to utilize for housing purposes 
                any units for which the guarantee is made
                    (D) Failure to maintain a satisfactory level of 
                operation and maintenance.--The lease shall be null and 
                void if the lessee fails to maintain a satisfactory 
                level of operation and maintenance.
            (9) Joint development authority.--The Secretary may use 
        authorities granted by statue in combination with one another in 
        the furtherance of providing where necessary and justified 
        affordable field employee housing.
            (10) Contracts for the management of field employee 
        quarters.--
                    (A) General authority.--Subject to the appropriation 
                of necessary funds in advance, the Secretary may enter 
                into contracts of any duration for the management, 
                repair, and maintenance of field employee quarters.
                    (B) Terms and conditions.--Any such contract shall 
                contain such terms and conditions as the Secretary deems 
                necessary or appropriate to protect the interests of the 
                United States and assure that necessary quarters are 
                available to field employees.
            (11) Leasing of seasonal employee quarters.--
                    (A) General authority.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                the Secretary may lease quarters at or near a unit of 
                the national park system for use as seasonal quarters 
                for field employees. The rent charged to field employees 
                under such a lease shall be a rate based on the 
                reasonable value of the quarters in accordance with 
                requirements

[[Page 110 STAT. 4193]]

                applicable under section 5911 of title 5, United States 
                Code.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Secretary may only issue a 
                lease under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary finds that 
                there is a shortage of adequate and affordable seasonal 
                quarters at or near such unit and that--
                          (i) the requirement for such seasonal field 
                      employee quarters is temporary; or
                          (ii) leasing would be more cost effective than 
                      construction of new seasonal field employee 
                      quarters.
                    (C) Unrecovered costs.--The Secretary may pay the 
                unrecovered costs of leasing seasonal quarters under 
                this paragraph from annual appropriations for the year 
                in which such lease is made.
            (12) Survey of existing facilities.--The Secretary shall--
                    (A) complete a condition assessment for all field 
                employee housing, including the physical condition of 
                such housing and the necessity and suitability of such 
                housing for carrying out the agency mission, using 
                existing information; and
                    (B) develop an agency-wide priority listing, by 
                structure, identifying those units in greatest
need for repair, rehabilitation, replacement, or initial construction.
            (13) Use of housing-related funds.--Expenditure of any funds 
        authorized and appropriated for new construction, repair, or 
        rehabilitation of housing under this section shall follow the 
        housing priority listing established by the agency under 
        paragraph (13), in sequential order, to the maximum extent 
        practicable.
            (14) Annual budget submittal.--The President's proposed 
        budget to Congress for the first fiscal year beginning after 
        enactment of this Act, and for each subsequent fiscal year, 
        shall include identification of nonconstruction funds to be 
        spent for National Park Service housing maintenance and 
        operations which are in addition to rental receipts collected.
            (15) Study of housing allowances.--Within 12 months after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct a 
        study to determine the feasibility of providing eligible 
        employees of the National Park Service with housing allowances 
        rather than Government housing. The study shall specifically 
        examine the feasibility of providing rental allowances to 
        temporary and lower paid permanent employees. Whenever the 
        Secretary submits a copy of such study to the Office of 
        Management and Budget, he shall concurrently transmit copies of 
        the report to the Resources Committee of the United States House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the United States Senate.
            (16) Study of sale of employee housing.--Within 18 months of 
        the date of the enactment of the Act, the Secretary shall 
        complete a study of the sale of Government quarters to a 
        cooperative consisting of field employees. The Secretary shall 
        examine the potential benefits to the Government as well as the 
        employees and any risks associated with such a program.
            (17) General provisions.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4194]]

                    (A) Construction limitations on federal lands.--The 
                Secretary may not utilize any lands for the purposes of 
                providing field employee housing under this section 
                which will impact primary resource values of the area or 
                adversely affect the mission of the agency.
                    (B) Rental rates.--To the extent practicable, the 
                Secretary shall establish rental rates for all quarters 
                occupied by field employees of the National Park Service 
                that are based on the reasonable value of the quarters 
                in accordance with requirements applicable under section 
                5911 of title 5, United States Code.
                    (C) Exemption from leasing requirements.--The 
                provisions of section 5 of the Act of July 15, 1968 (82 
                Stat. 354, 356; 16 U.S.C. 460l-22), and section 321 of 
                the Act of June 30, 1932 (40 U.S.C. 303b; 47 Stat. 412), 
                shall not apply to leases issued by the Secretary under 
                this section.
            (18) Proceeds.--The proceeds from any lease under paragraph 
        (7)(A)(i)(I), any lease under paragraph (11)(B), and any lease 
        of seasonal quarters under subsection (l), shall be retained by 
        the National Park Service. Such proceeds shall be deposited into 
        the special fund established for maintenance and operation of 
        quarters.
            (19) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
                    (A) The term ``field employee'' means--
                          (i) an employee of the National Park Service 
                      who is exclusively assigned by the National Park 
                      Service to perform duties at
a field unit, and the members of their family; and
                          (ii) other individuals who are authorized to 
                      occupy Government quarters under section 5911 of 
                      title 5, United States Code, and for whom there is 
                      no feasible alternative to the provision of 
                      Government housing, and the members of their 
                      family.
                    (B) The term ``land management agency'' means the 
                National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
                    (C) The term ``primary resource values'' means 
                resources which are specifically mentioned in the 
                enabling legislation for that field unit or other 
                resource value 
                recognized under Federal statute.
                    (D) The term ``quarters'' means quarters owned or 
                leased by the Government.
                    (E) The term ``seasonal quarters'' means quarters 
                typically occupied by field employees who are hired on 
                assignments of 6 months or less.

    (b) Minor Boundary Revision Authority.--Section 7(c) of the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-9(c)) is amended as 
follows:
            (1) In the first sentence, by striking ``Committee on 
        Natural'' and inserting ``Committee on''.
            (2)(A) By striking ``: Provided, however,'' and all that 
        follows through ``1965''; and
            (B) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)'' and by inserting at 
        the end the following:

    ``(2) For the purposes of clause (i) of paragraph (1), in all cases 
except the case of technical boundary revisions (resulting from such 
causes as survey error or changed road alignments),

[[Page 110 STAT. 4195]]

the authority of the Secretary under such clause (i) shall apply only if 
each of the following conditions is met:
            ``(A) The sum of the total acreage of lands, waters, and 
        interests therein to be added to the area and the total such 
        acreage to be deleted from the area is not more than 5 percent 
        of the total Federal acreage authorized to be included in the 
        area and is less than 200 acres in size.
            ``(B) The acquisition, if any, is not a major Federal action 
        significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, as 
        determined by the Secretary.
            ``(C) The sum of the total appraised value of the lands, 
        water, and interest therein to be added to the area and the 
        total appraised value of the lands,
waters, and interests therein to be deleted from the area does not 
exceed $750,000.
            ``(D) The proposed boundary revision is not an element of a 
        more comprehensive boundary modification proposal.
            ``(E) The proposed boundary has been subject to a public 
        review and comment period.
            ``(F) The Director of the National Park Service obtains 
        written consent for the boundary modification from all property 
        owners whose lands, water, or interests therein, or a portion of 
        whose lands, water, or interests therein, will be added to or 
        deleted from the area by the boundary modification.
            ``(G) The lands are adjacent to other Federal lands 
        administered by the Director of the National Park Service.

``Minor boundary revisions involving only deletions of acreage owned by 
the Federal Government and administered by the National Park Service may 
be made only by Act of Congress.''.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 346e.>>     (c) Authorization for Park Facilities To Be 
Located 
Outside the Boundaries of Zion National Park.--In order to facilitate 
the administration of Zion National Park, the Secretary of the Interior 
is authorized, under such terms and conditions as he may deem advisable, 
to expend donated or appropriated funds for the establishment of 
essential facilities for park administration and visitor use outside the 
boundaries, but within the vicinity, of the park. Such facilities and 
the use thereof shall be in conformity with approved plans for the park. 
The Secretary shall use existing facilities wherever feasible. Such 
facilities may only be constructed by the Secretary upon a finding that 
the location of such facilities would--
            (1) avoid undue degradation of natural or cultural resources 
        within the park;
            (2) enhance service to the public; or
            (3) provide a cost saving to the Federal Government.

<<NOTE: Contracts.>> The Secretary is authorized to enter into 
cooperative agreements with State or local governments or private 
entities to undertake the authority granted under this subsection. The 
Secretary is encouraged to identify and utilize funding sources to 
supplement any Federal funding used for these facilities.

    (d) Elimination of Unnecessary Congressional Reporting 
Requirements.--
            (1) Repeals.--The following provisions are hereby repealed:
                    (A) Section 302(c) of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
                authorize the establishment of the Chattahoochee River 
                National Recreation Area in the State of Georgia, and 
                for other purposes (Public Law 95-344; 92 Stat. 478; 16 
                U.S.C. 2302(c)).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4196]]

                    (B) Section 503 of the Act of December 19, 1980 
                (Public Law 96-550; 94 Stat. 3228; 16 U.S.C. 410ii-2).
                    (C) Subsections (b) and (c) of section 4 of the Act 
                of October 15, 1982 (Public Law 97-335; 96 Stat. 1628; 
                16 U.S.C. 341 note).
                    (D) Section 7 of Public Law 89-671 (96 Stat. 1457; 
                16 U.S.C. 284f).
                    (E) Section 3(c) of the National Trails System Act 
                (Public Law 90-543; 82 Stat. 919; 16 U.S.C. 1242(c)).
                    (F) Section 4(b) of the Act of October 24, 1984 
                (Public Law 98-540; 98 Stat. 2720; 16 U.S.C. 1a-8).
                    (G) Section 106(b) of the National Visitor Center 
                Facilities Act of 1968 (Public Law 90-264; 82 Stat. 44; 
                40 U.S.C. 805(b)).
                    (H) Section 6(f)(7) of the Act of September 3, 1964 
                (Public Law 88-578; 78 Stat. 900; 16 U.S.C. 460l-
                8(f)(7)).
                    (I) Subsection (b) of section 8 of the Act of August 
                18, 1970 (Public Law 91-383; 90 Stat. 1940; 16 U.S.C. 
                1a-5(b)).
                    (J) The last sentence of section 10(a)(2) of the 
                National Trails System Act (Public Law 90-543; 82 Stat. 
                926; 16 U.S.C. 1249(a)(2)).
                    (K) Section 4 of the Act of October 31, 1988 (Public 
                Law 100-573; Stat. 2891; 16 U.S.C. 460o note).
                    (L) Section 104(b) of the Act of November 19, 1988 
                (Public Law 100-698; 102 <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>>  
                Stat. 4621).
                    (M) Section 1015(b) of the Urban Park and Recreation 
                Recovery Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-625; 92 Stat. 3544; 
                16 U.S.C. 2514(b)).
                    (N) Section 105 of the Act of August 13, 1970 
                (Public Law 91-378; 16 U.S.C. 1705).
                    (O) Section 307(b) of the National Historic 
                Preservation Act (Public Law 89-665; 16 U.S.C. 470w-
                6(b)).
            (2) Amendments.--The following provisions are amended:
                    (A) Section 10 of the Archaeological Resources 
                Protection Act of 1979, by striking the last sentence of 
                subsection (c) (Public Law 96-95; 16 U.S.C. 470ii(c)).
                    (B) Section 5(c) of the Act of June 27, 1960 (Public 
                Law 86-523; 16 U.S.C. 469a-3(c); 74 Stat. 220), by 
                inserting a period after ``Act'' and striking ``and 
                shall submit'' and all that follows.
                    (C) Section 7(a)(3) of the Act of September 3, 1964 
                (Public Law 88-578; 78 Stat. 903; 16 U.S.C. 460l-
                9(a)(3)), by striking the last sentence.
                    (D) Section 111 of the Petroglyph National Monument 
                Establishment Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-313; 104 Stat. 
                278), <<NOTE: 16 USC 431 note.>>  by striking the second 
                sentence.
                    (E) Section 307(a) of the National Historic 
                Preservation Act (Public Law 89-665; 16 U.S.C. 470w-
                6(a)) is amended by striking the first and second 
                sentences.
                    (F) Section 101(a)(1)(B) of the National Historic 
                Preservation Act (Public Law 89-665; 16 U.S.C. 470a) by 
                inserting a period after ``Register'' the last place 
                such term appears and by striking ``and submitted'' and 
                all that 
                follows.

    (e) Senate Confirmation of the Director of the National Park 
Service.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4197]]

            (1) In general.--The first section of the Act entitled ``An 
        Act to establish a National Park Service, and for other 
        purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1; 
        commonly referred to as the ``National Park Service Organic 
        Act''), is amended in the first sentence by striking ``who shall 
        be appointed by the Secretary'' and all that follows and 
        inserting ``who shall be appointed by the President, by and with 
        the advice and consent of the Senate. The Director shall have 
        substantial experience and demonstrated competence in land 
        management and natural or cultural resource conservation. The 
        Director shall select two Deputy Directors. The first Deputy 
        Director shall have responsibility for National Park Service 
        operations, and the second Deputy Director shall have 
        responsibility for other programs assigned to the National Park 
        Service.''.
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 1 note.>>     (2) Effective date and 
        application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
        effect on February 1, 1997, and shall apply with respect to the 
        individual (if any) serving as the Director of the National Park 
        Service on that date.

    (f) National Park System Advisory Board Authorization.--
            (1) National Park system advisory board.--Section 3 of the 
        Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 667; 16 U.S.C. 463) is amended 
        as follows:
                    (A) In subsection (a) by striking the first 3 
                sentences and inserting in lieu thereof: ``There is 
                hereby established a National Park System Advisory 
                Board, whose purpose shall be to advise the Director of 
                the National Park Service on matters relating to the 
                National Park Service, the National Park System, and 
                programs administered by the National Park Service. The 
                Board shall advise the Director on matters submitted to 
                the Board by the Director as well as any other issues 
                identified by the Board. Members of the Board shall be 
                appointed on a staggered term basis by the Secretary for 
                a term not to exceed 4 years and shall serve at the 
                pleasure of the Secretary. The Board shall be comprised 
                of no more than 12 persons, appointed from among 
                citizens of the United States having a demonstrated 
                commitment to the mission of the National Park Service. 
                Board members shall be selected to represent various 
                geographic regions, including each of the administrative 
                regions of the National Park Service. At least 6 of the 
                members shall have outstanding expertise in 1 or more of 
                the following fields: history, archeology, anthropology, 
                historical or landscape architecture, biology, ecology, 
                geology, marine science, or social science. At least 4 
                of the members shall have outstanding expertise and 
                prior experience in the management of national or State 
                parks or protected areas, or national or cultural 
                resources management. The remaining members shall have 
                outstanding expertise in 1 or more of the areas 
                described above or in another professional or scientific 
                discipline, such as financial management, recreation use 
                management, land use planning or business management, 
                important to the mission of the National Park Service. 
                At least 1 individual shall be a locally elected 
                official from an area adjacent to a park. The Board 
                shall hold its first meeting by no later than 60 days 
                after the date on which all members

[[Page 110 STAT. 4198]]

                of the Advisory Board who are to be appointed have been 
                appointed. Any vacancy in the Board shall not affect its 
                powers, but shall be filled in the same manner in which 
                the original appointment was made. The Board may adopt 
                such rules as may be necessary to establish its 
                procedures and to govern the manner of its operations, 
                organization, and personnel. All members of the Board 
                shall be reimbursed for travel and per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence expenses during the performance of duties of 
                the Board while away from home or their regular place of 
                business, in accordance with subchapter 1 of chapter 57 
                of title 5, United States Code. With the exception of 
                travel and per diem as noted above, a member of the 
                Board who is otherwise an officer or employee of the 
                United States Government shall serve on the Board 
                without additional compensation.''.
                    (B) By redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as (f) 
                and (g) and by striking from the first sentence of 
                subsection (f), as so redesignated ``1995'' and 
                inserting in lieu thereof ``2006''.
                    (C) By adding the following new subsections after 
                subsection (a):

    ``(b)(1) The Secretary is authorized to hire 2 full-time staffers to 
meet the needs of the Advisory Board.

    ``(2) Service of an individual as a member of the Board shall not be 
considered as service or employment bringing such individual within the 
provisions of any Federal law relating to conflicts of interest or 
otherwise imposing restrictions, requirements, or penalties in relation 
to the employment of persons, the performance of services, or the 
payment or receipt of compensation in connection with claims, 
proceedings, or matters involving the United States. Service as a member 
of the Board, or as an employee of the Board, shall not be considered 
service in an appointive or elective position in the Government for 
purposes of section 8344 of title 5, United States Code, or comparable 
provisions of Federal law.
    ``(c)(1) Upon request of the Director, the Board is 
authorized to--
            ``(A) hold such hearings and sit and act at such times,
            ``(B) take such testimony,
            ``(C) have such printing and binding done,
            ``(D) enter into such contracts and other arrangements.
            ``(E) make such expenditures, and
            ``(F) take such other actions, as the Board may deem 
        advisable. Any member of the Board may administer oaths or 
        affirmations to witnesses appearing before the Board.

    ``(2) The Board may establish committees or subcommittees. Any such 
subcommittees or committees shall be chaired by a voting member of the 
Board.
    ``(d) The provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act shall 
apply to the Board established under this section with the exception of 
section 14(b).
    ``(e)(1) The Board is authorized to secure directly from any office, 
department, agency, establishment, or instrumentality of the Federal 
Government such information as the Board may require for the purpose of 
this section, and each such officer, department, agency, establishment, 
or instrumentality is authorized and directed to furnish, to the extent 
permitted by law, such information, sugges

[[Page 110 STAT. 4199]]

tions, estimates, and statistics directly to the Board, upon request 
made by a member of the Board.
    ``(2) Upon the request of the Board, the head of any Federal 
department, agency, or instrumentality is authorized to make any of the 
facilities and services of such department, agency, or instrumentality 
to the Board, on a nonreimbursable basis, to assist the Board in 
carrying out its duties under this section.
    ``(3) The Board may use the United States mails in the same manner 
and under the same conditions as other departments and agencies in the 
United States.''.
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 463 note.>>     (2) Authorization of 
        appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated to the National Park System 
        Advisory Board $200,000 per year to carry out the provisions of 
        section 3 of the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 667; 16 U.S.C. 
        463).
        <<NOTE: 16 USC 463 note.>>     (3) Effective date.--This 
        subsection shall take effect on December 7, 1997.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1f.>>     (g) Challenge Cost-Share Agreement Authority.--
            (1) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
                    (A) The term ``challenge cost-share agreement'' 
                means any agreement entered into between the Secretary 
                and any cooperator for the purpose of sharing costs or 
                services in carrying out authorized functions and 
                responsibilities of the Secretary of the Interior with 
                respect to any unit or program of the National Park 
                System (as defined in section 2(a) of the Act of August 
                8, 1953 (16 U.S.C. 1c(a))), any affiliated area,
or any designated National Scenic or Historic Trail.
                    (B) The term ``cooperator'' means any State or local 
                government, public or private agency, organization, 
                institution, corporation, individual, or other entity.
            (2) Challenge cost-share agreements.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior is authorized to negotiate and enter 
        into challenge cost-share agreements with cooperators.
            (3) Use of federal funds.--In carrying out challenge cost-
        share agreements, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to 
        provide the Federal funding share from any funds available to 
        the National Park Service.

    (h) Cost Recovery for Damage to National Park Resources.--Public Law 
101-337 is amended as follows:
            (1) In section 1 (16 U.S.C. 19jj), by amending subsection 
        (d) to read as follows:

    ``(d) `Park system resource' means any living or non-living resource 
that is located within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park 
System, except for resources owned by a non-Federal entity.''.
            (2) In section 1 (16 U.S.C. 19jj) by adding at the end 
        thereof the following:

    ``(g) `Marine or aquatic park system resource' means any living or 
non-living part of a marine or aquatic regimen within or is a living 
part of a marine or aquatic regimen within the boundaries of a unit of 
the National Park System, except for resources owned by a non-Federal 
entity.''.
            (3) In section 2(b) (16 U.S.C. 19jj-1(b)), by inserting 
        ``any marine or aquatic park resource'' after ``any park system 
        resource''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4200]]

<<NOTE: Oregon.>> SEC. 815. WILLIAM B. SMULLIN VISITOR CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The Bureau of Land Management's visitors center in 
Rand, Oregon is hereby designated as the ``William B. Smullin Visitor 
Center''.
    (b) Legal References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, 
document, record, map, or other document of the United States to the 
visitor center referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the ``William B. Smullin Visitor Center''.

<<NOTE: State listing.>> SEC. 816. CALUMET ECOLOGICAL PARK.

    (a) Feasibility Study.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        conduct a study of the feasibility of establishing an urban 
        ecological park to be known as ``Calumet Ecological Park'', in 
        the Lake Calumet area situated between the Illinois and Michigan 
        Canal National Heritage Corridor and the Indiana Dunes National 
        Lakeshore.
            (2) Particulars of study.--The study under paragraph (1) 
        shall include consideration of the following:
                    (A) The suitability of establishing a park in the 
                Lake Calumet area that--
                          (i) conserves and protects the wealth of 
                      natural resources threatened by development and 
                      pollution in the Lake Calumet area; and
                          (ii) consists of a number of nonadjacent sites 

                      forming green corridors between the Illinois and 
                      Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor and the 
                      Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore, that are based 
                      on the lakes and waterways in the area.
                    (B) The long-term future use of the Lake Calumet 
                area.
                    (C) Ways in which a Calumet Ecological Park would--
                          (i) benefit and enhance the cultural, 
                      historical, and natural resources of the Lake 
                      Calumet area; and
                          (ii) preserve natural lands and habitats in 
                      the Lake Calumet area and northwest Indiana.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Congress a report containing findings and recommendations of a 
        study under this section.

<<NOTE: California.>> SEC. 817. ACQUISITION OF CERTAIN PROPERTY ON SANTA 
            CRUZ ISLAND.

    Section 202 of Public Law 96-199 (16 U.S.C. 410ff-1) is 
amended by adding the following new subsection at the end thereof:
<<NOTE: Effective date.>>     ``(e)(1) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, effective 90 days after the date of enactment of this 
subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to, and the right to 
immediate possession of, the real property on the eastern end of Santa 
Cruz Island which is known as the Gherini Ranch is hereby vested in the 
United States, except for the reserved rights of use and occupancy set 
forth in Instrument No. 90-027494 recorded in the Official Records of 
the County of Santa Barbara, California.

    ``(2) The United States shall pay just compensation to the owners of 
any real property taken pursuant to this subsection, determined as of 
the date of taking. The full faith and credit

[[Page 110 STAT. 4201]]

of the United States is hereby pledged to the payment of any judgment 
entered against the United States with respect to the taking of such 
property. Payment shall be in the amount of the agreed negotiated value 
of such real property plus interest or the valuation of such real 
property awarded by judgment plus interest. Interest shall accrue from 
the date of taking to the date of payment. Interest shall be compounded 
quarterly and computed at the rate applicable for the period involved, 
as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on the basis of the 
current average market yield on outstanding marketable obligations of 
the United States of comparable maturities from the date of enactment of 
this subsection to the last day of the month preceding the date on which 
payment is made.
    ``(3) In the absence of a negotiated settlement, or an action by the 
owner, within 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, the 
Secretary shall initiate a proceeding, seeking in a court of competent 
jurisdiction a determination of just compensation with respect to the 
taking of such property.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall not allow any unauthorized use of the 
lands to be acquired under this subsection, except that the Secretary 
shall permit the orderly termination of all current activities and the 
removal of any equipment, facilities, or personal property.''.

SEC. 818. NATIONAL PARK AGREEMENTS.

    Section 3 of the Act entitled ``An Act to improve the administration 
of the National Park System by the Secretary of the Interior, and to 
clarify the authorities applicable to the system, and for other 
purposes'' approved August 18, 1970 (16 U.S.C. 1a-2), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (i), by striking the period at the end 
        thereof and inserting in lieu thereof ``; and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end thereof the following:

    ``(j) Enter into cooperative agreements with public or private 
educational institutions, States, and their political subdivisions, for 
the purpose of developing adequate, coordinated, cooperative research 
and training programs concerning the resources of the National Park 
System, and, pursuant to any such agreements, to accept from and make 
available to the cooperator such technical and support staff, financial 
assistance for mutually agreed upon research projects, supplies and 
equipment, facilities, and administrative services relating to 
cooperative research units as the Secretary deems appropriate; except 
that this paragraph shall not waive any requirements for research 
projects that are subject to the Federal procurement regulations.''.

                        TITLE IX--HERITAGE AREAS

<<NOTE: Massachusetts. Rhode Island.>> SEC. 901. BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY 
            NATIONAL HERITAGE 
            CORRIDOR.

    (a) Boundary Changes.--Section 2 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 
99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended by striking the first sentence 
and inserting the following new sentence: ``The boundaries shall include 
the lands and water generally

[[Page 110 STAT. 4202]]

depicted on the map entitled `Blackstone River Valley National Heritage 
Corridor Boundary Map', numbered BRV-80-80,011, and dated May 2, 
1993.''.
    (b) Terms.--Section 3(c) of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish 
the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts 
and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 
U.S.C. 461 note), is amended by inserting before the period at the end 
the following: ``, but may continue to serve after the expiration of 
this term until a successor has been appointed''.
    (c) Revision of Plan.--Section 6 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 
99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Revision of Plan.--(1) Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this subsection, the Commission, with the approval of 
the Secretary, shall revise the Cultural Heritage and Land Management 
Plan. The revision shall address the boundary change and shall include a 
natural resource inventory of areas or features that should be 
protected, restored, managed, or acquired because of their contribution 
to the understanding of national 
cultural landscape values.
    ``(2) No changes other than minor revisions may be made in the 
approval plan as amended without the approval of the Secretary. The 
Secretary shall approve or disapprove any proposed changes in the plan, 
except minor revisions, in accordance with subsection (b).''.
    (d) Extension of Commission.--Section 7 of the Act entitled ``An Act 
to establish the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 
99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 7. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    ``The Commission shall terminate on the date that is 10 years after 
the date of enactment of this section.''.

    (e) Implementation of Plan.--Subsection (c) of section 8 of the Act 
entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone River Valley National 
Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 
10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(c) Implementation.--(1) To assist in the implementation of the 
Cultural Heritage and Land Management Plan in a manner consistent with 
purposes of this Act, the Secretary is authorized to undertake a limited 
program of financial assistance for the purpose of providing funds for 
the preservation and restoration of structures on or eligible for 
inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places within the 
Corridor which exhibit national significance or provide a wide spectrum 
of historic, recreational, or environmental education opportunities to 
the general public.
    ``(2) To be eligible for funds under this section, the Commission 
shall submit an application to the Secretary that includes--
            ``(A) a 10-year development plan including those resource 
        protection needs and projects critical to maintaining or 
        interpreting the distinctive character of the Corridor; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4203]]

            ``(B) specific descriptions of annual work programs that 
        have been assembled, the participating parties, roles, cost 
        estimates, cost-sharing, or cooperative agreements necessary to 
        carry out the development plan.

    ``(3) Funds made available pursuant to this subsection shall not 
exceed 50 percent of the total cost of the work programs.
    ``(4) In making the funds available, the Secretary shall give 
priority to projects that attract greater non-Federal funding sources.
    ``(5) Any payment made for the purposes of conservation or 
restoration of real property or structures shall be subject to an 
agreement either--
            ``(A) to convey a conservation or preservation easement to 
        the Department of Environmental Management or to the Historic 
        Preservation Commission, as appropriate, of the State in which 
        the real property or structure is located; or
            ``(B) that conversion, use, or disposal of the resources so 
        assisted for purposes contrary to the purposes of this Act, as 
        determined by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the 
        United States for reimbursement of all funds expended upon such 
        resources or the proportion of the increased value of the 
        resources attributable to such funds as determined at the time 
        of such conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.

    ``(6) The authority to determine that a conversion, use, or disposal 
of resources has been carried out contrary to the purposes of this Act 
in violation of an agreement entered into under paragraph (5)(A) shall 
be solely at the discretion of the Secretary.''.
    (f) Local Authority.--Section 5 of the Act entitled ``An Act to 
establish the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 
99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 note), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(j) Local Authority and Private Property Not Affected.--Nothing in 
this Act shall be construed to affect or to authorize the Commission to 
interfere with--
            ``(1) the rights of any person with respect to private 
        property; or
            ``(2) any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the 
        Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any political subdivision of 
        the Commonwealth.''.

    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--Notwithstanding any other 
provisions of law regarding limitations on funding for heritage areas, 
section 10 of the Act entitled ``An Act to establish the Blackstone 
River Valley National Heritage Corridor in Massachusetts and Rhode 
Island'', approved November 10, 1986 (Public Law 99-647; 16 U.S.C. 461 
note), as amended, is further amended:
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``$350,000'' and 
        inserting ``$650,000''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:

<<NOTE: Appropriation authorization.>>     ``(b) Development Funds.--For 
fiscal year 1996, 1997, and 1998, there is authorized to be appropriated 
to carry out section 8(c) not to exceed $5,000,000.''.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4204]]

SEC. 902. ILLINOIS AND MICHIGAN CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE 
                        CORRIDOR.

    The Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 
1984 (Public Law 98-398; 16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended by inserting 
after section 117 the following new section:

``SEC. 118. STUDY OF POSSIBLE ADDITIONS TO CORRIDOR.

    ``The Commission shall undertake a study to determine whether the 
Joliet Army Ammunition Plant and the Calumet-Sag and 
Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canals should be added to the corridor. The 
study shall specifically examine the relationship between the purposes 
of this Act and the areas proposed for study and shall identify any 
specific resources which are related to the purposes for which the 
corridor was established. The study shall propose boundaries which 
provide for the inclusion of any related resources within the corridor. 
The Commission shall submit the study to the Secretary and the 
appropriate congressional committees. <<NOTE: Notification.>> Upon 
receipt of the study, the Secretary shall determine which lands (if any) 
should be added to the corridor and shall so notify the appropriate 
congressional committees.''.

                         TITLE X--MISCELLANEOUS

           <<NOTE: Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve Act of 
1996. Kansas.>> Subtitle A--Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u note.>> SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Tallgrass Prairie National 
Preserve Act of 1996''.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u.>> SEC. 1002. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) of the 400,000 square miles of tallgrass prairie that 
        once covered the North American Continent, less than 1 percent 
        remains, primarily in the Flint Hills of Kansas;
            (2) in 1991, the National Park Service conducted a special 
        resource study of the Spring Hill Ranch, located in the Flint 
        Hills of Kansas;
            (3) the study concludes that the Spring Hill Ranch--
                    (A) is a nationally significant example of the once 
                vast tallgrass ecosystem, and includes buildings listed 
                on the National Register of Historic Places pursuant to 
                section 101 of the National Historic Preservation Act 
                (16 U.S.C. 470a) that represent outstanding examples of 
                Second Empire and other 19th Century architectural 
                styles; and
                    (B) is suitable and feasible as a potential addition 
                to the National Park System; and
            (4) the National Park Trust, which owns the Spring Hill 
        Ranch, has agreed to permit the National Park Service--
                    (A) to purchase a portion of the ranch, as specified 
                in the subtitle; and
                    (B) to manage the ranch in order to--
                          (i) conserve the scenery, natural and historic 
                      objects, and wildlife of the ranch; and
                          (ii) provide for the enjoyment of the ranch in 
                      such a manner and by such means as will leave the 
                      scenery,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4205]]

                      natural and historic objects, and wildlife 
                      unimpaired for the enjoyment of future 
                      generations.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this subtitle are--
            (1) to preserve, protect, and interpret for the public an 
        example of a tallgrass prairie ecosystem on the Spring Hill 
        Ranch, located in the Flint Hills of Kansas; and
            (2) to preserve and interpret for the public the historic 
        and cultural values represented on the Spring Hill Ranch.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-1.>> SEC. 1003. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Advisory committee.--The term ``Advisory Committee'' 
        means the Advisory Committee established under section 1007.
            (2) Preserve.--The term ``Preserve'' means the Tallgrass 
        Prairie National Preserve established by section 1004.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Trust.--The term ``Trust'' means the National Park 
        Trust, Inc., a District of Columbia nonprofit corporation, or 
        any successor-in-interest.
<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-2.>> SEC. 1004. ESTABLISHMENT OF TALLGRASS 
                          PRAIRIE NATIONAL 
                          PRESERVE.

    (a) In General.--In order to provide for the preservation, 
restoration, and interpretation of the Spring Hill Ranch area of the 
Flint Hills of Kansas, for the benefit and enjoyment of present and 
future generations, there is established the Tallgrass Prairie National 
Preserve.
    (b) Description.--The Preserve shall consist of the lands and 
interests in land, including approximately 10,894 acres, generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary Map, Flint Hills Prairie 
National Monument'' numbered NM-TGP 80,000 and dated June 1994, more 
particularly described in the deed filed at 8:22 a.m. of
June 3, 1994, with the Office of the Register of Deeds in Chase County, 
Kansas, and recorded in Book L-106 at pages 328 through 339, inclusive. 
In the case of any difference between the map and the legal description, 
the legal description shall govern, except that if, as a result of a 
survey, the Secretary determines that there is a discrepancy with 
respect to the boundary of the Preserve that may be corrected by making 
minor changes to the map, the Secretary shall make changes to the map as 
appropriate, and the boundaries of the Preserve shall be adjusted 
accordingly. The map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service of 
the Department of the Interior.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-3.>> SEC. 1005. ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL PRESERVE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall administer the Preserve in 
accordance with this subtitle, the cooperative agreements described in 
subsection (f)(1), and the provisions of law generally applicable to 
units of the National Park System, including the Act entitled ``An Act 
to establish a National Park Service, and for other purposes'', approved 
August 25, 1916 (16 U.S.C. 1, 2 through 4) and the Act of August 21, 
1935 (49 Stat. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
    (b) Application of Regulations.--With the consent of a 
private owner of land within the boundaries of the Preserve, the 
regulations issued by the Secretary concerning the National Park

[[Page 110 STAT. 4206]]

Service that provide for the proper use, management, and protection of 
persons, property, and natural and cultural resources shall apply to the 
private land.
    (c) Facilities.--For purposes of carrying out the duties of the 
Secretary under this subtitle relating to the Preserve, the Secretary 
may, with the consent of a landowner, directly or by contract, 
construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, or develop essential buildings, 
structures, and related facilities including roads, trails, and other 
interpretive facilities on real property that is not owned by the 
Federal Government and is located within the Preserve.
    (d) Liability.--
            (1) Liability of the united states and its officers and 
        employees.--Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the 
        liability of the United States is subject to the terms and 
        conditions of the Federal Tort Claims Act, as 
        amended, 28 U.S.C. 2671 et seq., with respect to the claims 
        arising by virtue of the Secretary's administration of the 
        Preserve pursuant to this Act.
            (2) Liability of landowners.--
                    (A) The Secretary of the Interior is authorized, 
                under such terms and conditions as he deems appropriate, 
                to include in any cooperative agreement entered into in 
                accordance with subsection (f)(1) an indemnification 
                provision by which the United States agrees to hold 
                harmless, defend and indemnify the landowner in full 
                from and against any suit, claim, demand or action, 
                liability, 
                judgment, cost or other fee arising out of any claim of 
                personal injury or property damage that occurs in 
                connection with the operation of the Preserve under the 
                agreement: Provided however, That indemnification shall 
                not exceed $3 million per claimant per occurrence.
                    (B) The indemnification provision authorized by 
                subparagraph (A) shall not include claims for personal 
                injury or property damage proximately caused by the 
                wanton or willful misconduct of the landowner.

    (e) Unit of the National Park System.--The Preserve shall be a unit 
of the National Park System for all purposes, including the purpose of 
exercising authority to charge entrance and admission fees under section 
4 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 (16 U.S.C. 460l-
6a).
    (f) Agreement and Donations.--
            (1) Agreements.--The Secretary may expend Federal funds for 
        the cooperative management of private property within the 
        Preserve for research, resource management (including pest 
        control and noxious weed control, fire protection, and the 
        restoration of buildings), and visitor protection and use.
            (2) Donations.--The Secretary may accept, retain, and expend 
        donations of funds, property (other than real property), or 
        services from individuals, foundations, corporations, or public 
        entities for the purposes of providing programs, services, 
        facilities, or technical assistance that further the purposes of 
        this subtitle.

    (g) General Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than the end of the third full 
        fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee

[[Page 110 STAT. 4207]]

        on Resources of the House of Representatives a general 
        management plan for the Preserve.
            (2) Consultation.--In preparing the general management plan, 
        the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park 
        Service, shall consult with--
                    (A)(i) appropriate officials of the Trust; and
                    (ii) the Advisory Committee; and
                    (B) adjacent landowners, appropriate officials of 
                nearby communities, the Kansas Department of Wildlife 
                and Parks, the Kansas Historical Society, and other 
                interested parties.
            (3) Content of plan.--The general management plan shall 
        provide for the following:
                    (A) Maintaining and enhancing the tall grass prairie 
                within the boundaries of the Preserve.
                    (B) Public access and enjoyment of the property that 
                is consistent with the conservation and proper 
                management of the historical, cultural, and natural 
                resources of the ranch.
                    (C) Interpretive and educational programs covering 
                the natural history of the prairie, the cultural history 
                of Native Americans, and the legacy of ranching in the 
                Flint Hills region.
                    (D) Provisions requiring the application of 
                applicable State law concerning the maintenance of 
                adequate fences within the boundaries of the Preserve. 
                In any case in which an activity of the National Park 
                Service requires fences that exceed the legal fence 
                standard otherwise applicable to the Preserve, the 
                National Park Service shall pay the additional cost of 
                constructing and maintaining the fences to meet the 
                applicable requirements for that activity.
                    (E) Provisions requiring the Secretary to comply 
                with applicable State noxious weed, pesticide, and 
                animal health laws.
                    (F) Provisions requiring compliance with applicable 
                State water laws and Federal and State waste disposal 
                laws (including regulations) and any other applicable 
                law.
                    (G) Provisions requiring the Secretary to honor each 
                valid existing oil and gas lease for lands within the 
                boundaries of the Preserve (as described in section 
                1004(b)) that is in effect on the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (H) Provisions requiring the Secretary to offer to 
                enter into an agreement with each individual who, as of 
                the date of enactment of this Act, holds rights for 
                cattle grazing within the boundaries of the Preserve (as 
                described in 
                section 1004(b)).
            (4) Hunting and fishing.--The Secretary may allow hunting 
        and fishing on Federal lands within the Preserve.
            (5) Financial analysis.--As part of the development of the 
        general management plan, the Secretary shall prepare a financial 
        analysis indicating how the management of the 
        Preserve may be fully supported through fees, private donations, 
        and other forms of non-Federal funding.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4208]]

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-4.>> SEC. 1006. LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall acquire, by donation, not more 
than 180 acres of real property within the boundaries of the Preserve 
(as described in section 1004(b)) and the improvements on the real 
property.
    (b) Payments in Lieu of Taxes.--For the purposes of payments made 
under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code, the real property 
described in subsection (a)(1) shall be deemed to have been acquired for 
the purposes specified in section 6904(a) of that title.
    (c) Prohibitions.--No property may be acquired under this section 
without the consent of the owner of the property. The United States may 
not acquire fee ownership of any lands within the Preserve other than 
lands described in this section.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-5.>> SEC. 1007. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established an advisory 
committee to be known as the ``Tallgrass Prairie National Preserve 
Advisory Committee''.
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the 
Secretary and the Director of the National Park Service concerning the 
development, management, and interpretation of the Preserve. In carrying 
out those duties, the Advisory Committee shall provide timely advice to 
the Secretary and the Director during the preparation of the general 
management plan under section 1005(g).
    (c) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 13 members, 
who shall be appointed by the Secretary as follows:
            (1) Three members shall be representatives of the Trust.
            (2) Three members shall be representatives of local 
        landowners, cattle ranchers, or other agricultural interests.
            (3) Three members shall be representatives of conservation 
        or historic preservation interests.
            (4)(A) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by the Chase County Commission in the State of 
        Kansas.
            (B) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by appropriate officials of Strong City, Kansas, and 
        Cottonwood Falls, Kansas.
            (C) One member shall be selected from a list of persons 
        recommended by the Governor of the State of Kansas.
            (5) One member shall be a range management specialist 
        representing institutions of higher education (as defined in 
        section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1141(a))) in the State of Kansas.

    (d) Terms.--
            (1) In general.--Each member of the Advisory Committee shall 
        be appointed to serve for a term of 3 years, except that the 
        initial members shall be appointed as follows:
                    (A) Four members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (c), to 
                serve for a term of 3 years.
                    (B) Four members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (c), to 
                serve for a term of 4 years.
                    (C) Five members shall be appointed, one each from 
                paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (c), to serve 
                for a term of 5 years.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4209]]

            (2) Reappointment.--Each member may be reappointed to serve 
        a subsequent term.
            (3) Expiration.--Each member shall continue to serve after 
        the expiration of the term of the member until a successor is 
        appointed.
            (4) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Advisory Committee shall be 
        filled in the same manner as an original appointment is made. 
        The member appointed to fill the vacancy shall serve until the 
        expiration of the term in which the vacancy occurred.

    (e) Chairperson.--The members of the Advisory Committee shall select 
1 of the members to serve as Chairperson.
    (f) Meetings.--Meetings of the Advisory Committee shall be held at 
the call of the Chairperson or the majority of the Advisory Committee. 
Meetings shall be held at such locations and in such a manner as to 
ensure adequate opportunity for public involvement. In compliance with 
the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), 
the Advisory Committee shall choose an appropriate means of providing 
interested members of the public advance notice of scheduled meetings.
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Advisory Committee 
shall constitute a quorum.
    (h) Compensation.--Each member of the Advisory Committee shall serve 
without compensation, except that while engaged in official business of 
the Advisory Committee, the member shall be entitled to travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence in the same manner as persons 
employed intermittently in Government service under section 5703 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (i)  Charter.--The rechartering provisions of section 14(b) of the 
Federal Advisory Committee Act (15 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
Advisory Committee.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-6.>> SEC. 1008. RESTRICTION ON AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this subtitle shall give the Secretary authority to 
regulate lands outside the land area acquired by the Secretary under 
section 1006(a).

<<NOTE: 16 USC 698u-7.>> SEC. 1009. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of the 
Interior such sums as are necessary to carry out this subtitle.

                       Subtitle B--Sterling Forest

SEC. 1011. PALISADES INTERSTATE PARK COMMISSION.

    (a) Funding.--The Secretary of the Interior is authorized to provide 
funding to the Palisades Interstate Park Commission to be used for the 
acquisition of lands and interests in lands within the area generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Boundary Map, Sterling Forest Reserve'', 
numbered SFR-60,001 and dated July 1, 1994. There are authorized to be 
appropriated for purposes of this section not more than $17,500,000. No 
funds made available under this section may be used for the acquisition 
of any lands or interests in lands without the consent of the owner 
thereof.
    (b) Land Exchange.--The Secretary of the Interior is 
authorized to exchange unreserved unappropriated Federal lands under the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for the lands comprising 
approximately 2,220 acres depicted on the map entitled ``Sterling 
Forest, Proposed Sale of Sterling Forest Lands'' and dated

[[Page 110 STAT. 4210]]

July 25, 1996. The Secretary shall consult with the Governor of any 
State in which such unreserved unappropriated lands are located prior to 
carrying out such exchange. The lands acquired by the Secretary under 
this section shall be transferred to the Palisades Interstate Park 
Commission to be included within the Sterling Forest Reserve. The lands 
exchanged under this section shall be of equal value, as determined by 
the Secretary utilizing nationally recognized appraisal 
standards. <<NOTE: Expiration date.>> The authority to exchange lands 
under this section shall expire on the date 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act.

                    Subtitle C--Additional Provisions

SEC. 1021. RECREATION LAKES.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 460l-10e note.>>     (a) Findings and Purposes.--The 
Congress finds that the 
Federal Government, under the authority of the Reclamation Act and other 
statutes, has developed manmade lakes and reservoirs that have become a 
powerful magnet for diverse recreational activities and that such 
activities contribute to the well-being of families and individuals and 
the economic viability of local communities. The Congress further finds 
that in order to further the purposes of the Land and Water Conservation 
Fund, the President should appoint an advisory commission to review the 
current and 
anticipated demand for recreational opportunities at federally-managed 
manmade lakes and reservoirs through creative partnerships involving 
Federal, State, and local governments and the private sector and to 
develop alternatives for enhanced recreational use of such facilities.

    (b) Commission.--The Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 1965 
(Public Law 88-578, 78 Stat. 897) is amended by adding at the end 
thefollowing new section:
<<NOTE: President. Reports. 16T USCT 460l-10e.>>     ``Sec. 13. (a) The 
President shall appoint an advisory commission to review the 
opportunities for enhanced opportunities for water-based recreation 
which shall submit a report to the President and to the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Resources of the 
House of Representatives within one year from the date of enactment of 
this section.

    ``(b) The members of the Commission shall include--
            ``(1) the Secretary of the Interior, or his designee;
            ``(2) the Secretary of the Army, or his designee;
            ``(3) the Chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, or his 
        designee;
            ``(4) the Secretary of Agriculture, or his designee;
            ``(5) a person nominated by the National Governor's 
        Association; and
            ``(6) four persons familiar with the interests of the 
        recreation and tourism industry, conservation and recreation 
        use, Indian tribes, and local governments, at least one of whom 
        shall be familiar with the economics and financing of recreation 
        related infrastructure.

    ``(c) The President shall appoint one member to serve as 
Chairman. Any vacancy on the Commission shall be filled in the same 
manner as the original appointment. Members of the Commission shall 
serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for travel, 
subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred by

[[Page 110 STAT. 4211]]

them in the performance of their duties. The Secretary of the Interior 
shall provide all financial, administrative, and staffing requirements 
for the Commission, including office space, furnishings, and equipment. 
The heads of other Federal agencies are authorized, at the request of 
the Commission, to provide such information or personnel, to the extent 
permitted by law and within the limits of available funds, to the 
Commission as may be useful to accomplish the purposes of this section.
    ``(d) The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act at such 
times and places, take such testimony, and receive such 
evidence as it deems advisable: Provided, That, to the maximum extent 
possible, the Commission shall use existing data and research. The 
Commission is authorized to use the United States mail in the same 
manner and upon the same conditions as other departments and agencies of 
the United States.
    ``(e) The report shall review the extent of water related 
recreation at Federal manmade lakes and reservoirs and shall develop 
alternatives to enhance the opportunities for such use by the public. In 
developing the report, the Commission shall--
            ``(1) review the extent to which recreation components 
        identified in specific authorizations associated with individual 
        Federal manmade lakes and reservoirs have been accomplished;
            ``(2) evaluate the feasibility of enhancing recreation 
        opportunities at federally-managed lakes and reservoirs under 
        existing statutes;
            ``(3) consider legislative changes that would enhance 
        recreation opportunities consistent with and subject to the 
        achievement of the authorized purposes of Federal water 
        projects; and
            ``(4) make recommendations on alternatives for enhanced 
        recreation opportunities including, but not limited to, the 
        establishment of a National Recreation Lake System under which 
        specific lakes would receive national designation and which 
        would be managed through innovative partnership-based agreements 
        between Federal agencies, State and local units of government, 
        and the private sector.

Any such alternatives shall be consistent with and subject to the 
authorized purposes for any manmade lakes and reservoirs and shall 
emphasize private sector initiatives in concert with State and local 
units of government.''.
<<NOTE: Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness Expansion and Fossil Forest 
                          Protection Act. New Mexico.>> SEC. 1022. 
                          BISTI/DE-NA-ZIN WILDERNESS EXPANSION AND 
                          FOSSIL FOREST PROTECTION.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Bisti/De-Na-Zin 
Wilderness Expansion and Fossil Forest Protection 
Act''.
    (b) Wilderness Designation.--Section 102 of the San 
Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 (98 <<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 
note.>> Stat. 3155) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``wilderness, and, therefore,'' and 
                all that follows through ``System--'' and inserting 
                ``wilderness areas, and as one component of the National 
                Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the 
                `Bisti/De-Na-Zin Wilderness'--'';

[[Page 110 STAT. 4212]]

                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, and which 
                shall be known as the Bisti Wilderness; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``, and which 
                shall be known as the De-Na-Zin Wilderness.'' and 
                inserting ``; and ''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) certain lands in the Farmington District of the Bureau 
        of Land Management, New Mexico, which comprise approximately 
        16,525 acres, as generally depicted on a map entitled `Bisti/De-
        Na-Zin Wilderness Amendment Proposal', dated May 1992.'';
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (c), by inserting 
        after ``of this Act'' the following: ``with regard to the areas 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), and as 
        soon as practicable after the date of enactment of subsection 
        (a)(3) with regard to the area described in subsection (a)(3)'';
            (3) in subsection (d), by inserting after ``of this Act'' 
        the following: ``with regard to the areas described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), and where established 
        prior to the date of enactment of subsection (a)(3) with regard 
        to the area described in subsection (a)(3)''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection:

    ``(e)(1) Subject to valid existing rights, the lands described in 
subsection (a)(3) are withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under 
the mining laws and from disposition under all laws pertaining to 
mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, and mineral material sales.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Interior may issue coal leases in New 
Mexico in exchange for any preference right coal lease application 
within the area described in subsection (a)(3). Such exchanges shall be 
made in accordance with applicable existing laws and regulations 
relating to coal leases after a determination has been made by the 
Secretary that the applicant is entitled to a preference right lease and 
that the exchange is in the public interest.
    ``(3) Operations on oil and gas leases issued prior to the date of 
enactment of subsection (a)(3) shall be subject to the applicable 
provisions of Group 3100 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations 
(including section 3162.5-1), and such other terms, stipulations, and 
conditions as the Secretary of the Interior considers necessary to avoid 
significant disturbance of the land surface or impairment of the 
ecological, educational, scientific, recreational, scenic, and other 
wilderness values of the lands described in subsection (a)(3) in 
existence on the date of enactment of subsection (a)(3). In order to 
satisfy valid existing rights on the lands described in subsection 
(a)(3), the Secretary of the Interior may exchange any oil and gas lease 
within this area for an unleased parcel outside this area of like 
mineral estate and with similar appraised mineral values.''.
    (c) Exchanges for State Lands.--Section 104 of the San Juan Basin 
Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 3156) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by inserting 
        after ``of this Act'' the following: ``with regard to the areas 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), and not 
        later than 120 days after the date of enactment of subsection 
        (a)(3) with regard to the area described in subsection (a)(3)'';

[[Page 110 STAT. 4213]]

            (2) in subsection (c), by inserting before the period the 
        following: ``with regard to the areas described in paragraphs 
        (1) and (2) of subsection (a), and as of the date of enactment 
        of subsection (a)(3) with regard to the area described in 
        subsection (a)(3)''; and
            (3) in the last sentence of subsection (d), by inserting 
        before the period the following: ``with regard to the areas 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), and not 
        later than 2 years after the date of enactment of subsection 
        (a)(3) with regard to the area described in subsection (a)(3)''.

    (d) Exchanges for Indian Lands.--Section 105 of the San Juan Basin 
Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 3157) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) The Secretary of the Interior shall exchange any lands held 
in trust for the Navajo Tribe by the Bureau of Indian Affairs that are 
within the boundary of the area described in subsection (a)(3).
    ``(2) The lands shall be exchanged for lands within New Mexico 
approximately equal in value that are selected by the Navajo Tribe.
    ``(3) After the exchange, the lands selected by the Navajo Tribe 
shall be held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior in the same 
manner as the lands described in paragraph (1).''.
    (e) Fossil Forest Research Natural Area.--Section 103 of the San 
Juan Basin Wilderness Protection Act of 1984 (98 Stat. 3156) is amended 
to read as follows:

<<NOTE: 43 USC 178.>> ``SEC. 103. FOSSIL FOREST RESEARCH NATURAL AREA.

    ``(a) Establishment.--To conserve and protect natural values and to 
provide scientific knowledge, education, and interpretation for the 
benefit of future generations, there is established the Fossil Forest 
Research Natural Area (referred to in this section as the `Area'), 
consisting of the approximately 2,770 acres in the 
Farmington District of the Bureau of Land Management, New Mexico, as 
generally depicted on a map entitled `Fossil Forest', dated June 1983.
    ``(b) Map and Legal Description.--
            ``(1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        file a map and legal description of the Area with the Committee 
        on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives.
            ``(2) Force and effect.--The map and legal description 
        described in paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect 
        as if included in this Act.
            ``(3) Technical corrections.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        may correct clerical, typographical, and cartographical errors 
        in the map and legal description subsequent to filing the map 
        pursuant to paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Public inspection.--The map and legal description 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        Office of the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, 
        Department of the Interior.

    ``(c) Management.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting 
        through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall 
        manage the Area--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4214]]

                    ``(A) to protect the resources within the Area; and
                    ``(B) in accordance with this Act, the Federal Land 
                Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
                seq.), and other applicable provisions of law.
            ``(2) Mining.--
                    ``(A) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
                the lands within the Area are withdrawn from all forms 
                of appropriation under the mining laws and from 
                disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral 
                leasing, geothermal leasing, and mineral material sales.
                    ``(B) Coal preference rights.--The Secretary of the 
                Interior is authorized to issue coal leases in New 
                Mexico in exchange for any preference right coal lease 
                application within the Area. Such exchanges shall be 
                made in accordance with applicable existing laws and 
                regulations relating to coal leases after a 
                determination has been made by the Secretary that the 
                applicant is entitled to a preference right lease and 
                that the exchange is in the public interest.
                    ``(C) Oil and gas leases.--Operations on oil and gas 
                leases issued prior to the date of enactment of this 
                paragraph shall be subject to the applicable provisions 
                of Group 3100 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations 
                (including section 3162.5-1), and such other terms, 
                stipulations, and conditions as the Secretary of the 
                Interior considers 
                necessary to avoid significant disturbance of the land 
                surface or impairment of the natural, educational, and 
                scientific research values of the Area in existence on 
                the date of enactment of this paragraph.
            ``(3) Grazing.--Livestock grazing on lands within the Area 
        may not be permitted.

    ``(d) Inventory.--Not later than 3 full fiscal years after the date 
of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary of the Interior, acting 
through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall develop a 
baseline inventory of all categories of fossil resources within the 
Area. After the inventory is developed, the Secretary shall conduct 
monitoring surveys at intervals specified in the management plan 
developed for the Area in accordance with subsection (e).
    ``(e) Management Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        develop and submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources 
        of the House of Representatives a management plan that describes 
        the appropriate use of the Area consistent with this Act.
            ``(2) Contents.--The management plan shall include--
                    ``(A) a plan for the implementation of a continuing 
                cooperative program with other agencies and groups for--
                          ``(i) laboratory and field interpretation; and
                          ``(ii) public education about the resources 
                      and 
                      values of the Area (including vertebrate fossils);
                    ``(B) provisions for vehicle management that are 
                consistent with the purpose of the Area and that provide 
                for the use of vehicles to the minimum extent necessary 
                to accomplish an individual scientific project;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4215]]

                    ``(C) procedures for the excavation and collection 
                of fossil remains, including botanical fossils, and the 
                use of motorized and mechanical equipment to the minimum 
                extent necessary to accomplish an individual scientific 
                project; and
                    ``(D) mitigation and reclamation standards for 
                activities that disturb the surface to the detriment of 
                scenic and environmental values.''.
<<NOTE: Oregon. 16 USC 545b.>> SEC. 1023. OPAL CREEK WILDERNESS 
                          AND SCENIC RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Bull of the woods wilderness.--The term ``Bull of the 
        Woods Wilderness'' means the land designated as wilderness by 
        section 3(4) of the Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 
        98-328; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (2) Opal creek wilderness.--The term ``Opal Creek 
        Wilderness'' means certain land in the Willamette National 
        Forest in the State of Oregon comprising approximately 12,800 
        acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Opal 
        Creek Wilderness and Scenic Recreation Area'', dated July 1996.
            (3) Scenic recreation area.--The term ``Scenic Recreation 
        Area'' means the Opal Creek Scenic Recreation Area, comprising 
        approximately 13,000 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Proposed Opal Creek Wilderness and Scenic Recreation 
        Area'', dated July 1996 and established under subsection 
        (c)(1)(C).
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to establish a wilderness and scenic recreation area to 
        protect and provide for the enhancement of the natural, scenic, 
        recreational, historic and cultural resources of the area in the 
        vicinity of Opal Creek;
            (2) to protect and support the economy of the communities of 
        the Santiam Canyon; and
            (3) to provide increased protection for an important 
        drinking water source for communities served by the North 
        Santiam River.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>>     (c) Establishment of Opal Creek 
Wilderness and Scenic Recreation Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--On a determination by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (2)--
                    (A) the Opal Creek Wilderness, as depicted on the 
                map described in subsection (a)(2), is hereby designated 
                as wilderness, subject to the provisions of the 
                Wilderness Act of 1964, shall become a component of the 
                National 
                Wilderness System, and shall be known as the Opal Creek 
                Wilderness;
                    (B) the part of the Bull of the Woods Wilderness 
                that is located in the Willamette National Forest shall 
                be incorporated into the Opal Creek Wilderness; and
                    (C) the Secretary shall establish the Opal Creek 
                Scenic Recreation Area in the Willamette National Forest 
                in the State of Oregon, comprising approximately 13,000 
                acres,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4216]]

                as generally depicted on the map described in subsection 
                (a)(3).
            (2) Conditions.--The designations in paragraph (1) shall not 
        take effect unless the Secretary makes a determination, not 
        later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this title, 
        that the following conditions have been met:
                    (A) the following have been donated to the United 
                States in an acceptable condition and without 
                encumbrances:
                          (i) all right, title, and interest in the 
                      following patented parcels of land--
                                    (I) Santiam Number 1, mineral survey 
                                number 992, as described in patent 
                                number 39-92-0002, dated December 11, 
                                1991;
                                    (II) Ruth Quartz Mine Number 2, 
                                mineral 
                                survey number 994, as described in 
                                patent number 39-91-0012, dated February 
                                12, 1991;
                                    (III) Morning Star Lode, mineral 
                                survey 
                                number 993, as described in patent 
                                number 36-91-0011, dated February 12, 
                                1991;
                          (ii) all right, title, and interest held by 
                      any entity other than the Times Mirror Land and 
                      Timber Company, its successors and assigns, in and 
                      to lands located in section 18, township 8 south, 
                      range 5 east, Marion County, Oregon, Eureka 
                      numbers 6, 7, 8, and 13 
                      mining claims; and
                          (iii) an easement across the Hewitt, 
                      Starvation, and Poor Boy Mill Sites, mineral 
                      survey number 990, as described in patent number 
                      36-91-0017, dated May 9, 1991. In the sole 
                      discretion of the Secretary, such easement may be 
                      limited to administrative use if an alternative 
                      access route, adequate and appropriate for public 
                      use, is provided.
                    (B) a binding agreement has been executed by the 
                Secretary and the owners of record as of March 29, 1996, 
                of the following interests, specifying the terms and 
                conditions for the disposition of such interests to the 
                United States Government--
                          (i) The lode mining claims known as Princess 
                      Lode, Black Prince Lode, and King Number 4 Lode, 
                      embracing portions of sections 29 and 32, township 
                      8 south, range 5 east, Willamette Meridian, Marion 
                      County, Oregon, the claims being more particularly 
                      described in the field notes and depicted on the 
                      plat of mineral survey number 887, Oregon; and
                          (ii) Ruth Quartz Mine Number 1, mineral survey 
                      number 994, as described in patent number 39-91-
                      0012, dated February 12, 1991.
            (3) Additions to the wilderness and scenic recreation 
        areas.--
                    (A) Lands or interests in lands conveyed to the 
                United States under this subsection shall be included in 
                and become part of, as appropriate, Opal Creek 
                Wilderness or the Opal Creek Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (B) On acquiring all or substantially all of the 
                land located in section 36, township 8 south, range 4 
                east, of the Willamette Meridian, Marion County, Oregon, 



[[Page 110 STAT. 4217]]

                commonly known as the Rosboro section by exchange, 
                purchase from a willing seller, or by donation, the 
                Secretary shall expand the boundary of the Scenic 
                Recreation Area to include such land.
                    (C) On acquiring all or substantially all of the 
                land located in section 18, township 8 south, range 5 
                east, 
                Marion County, Oregon, commonly known as the Time Mirror 
                property, by exchange, purchase from a willing seller, 
                or by donation, such land shall be included in and 
                become a part of the Opal Creek Wilderness.

    (d) Administration of the Scenic Recreation Area.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Scenic 
        Recreation Area in accordance with this section and the laws 
        (including regulations) applicable to the National Forest 
        System.
            (2) Opal creek management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of establishment of the Scenic Recreation Area, the 
                Secretary, in consultation with the advisory committee 
                established under subsection (e)(1), shall prepare a 
                comprehensive Opal Creek Management Plan (Management 
                Plan) for the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (B) Incorporation in land and resource 
                management.--Upon its completion, the Opal Creek 
                Management Plan shall become part of the land and 
                resource management plan for the Willamette National 
                Forest and supersede any conflicting provision in such 
                land and resource management plan. Nothing in this 
                paragraph shall be construed to supersede the 
                requirements of the Endangered Species Act or the 
                National Forest Management Act or regulations 
                promulgated under those Acts, or any other law.
                    (C) Requirements.--The Opal Creek Management Plan 
                shall provide for a broad range of land uses, 
                including--
                          (i) recreation;
                          (ii) harvesting of nontraditional forest 
                      products, such as gathering mushrooms and material 
                      to make baskets; and
                          (iii) educational and research opportunities.
                    (D) Plan amendments.--The Secretary may amend the 
                Opal Creek Management Plan as the Secretary may 
                determine to be necessary, consistent with the 
                procedures and purposes of this section.
            (3) Cultural and historic resource inventory.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of establishment of the Scenic Recreation Area, the 

                Secretary shall review and revise the inventory of the 
                cultural and historic resources on the public land in 
                the Scenic Recreation Area developed pursuant to the 
                Oregon Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-328; 16 
                U.S.C. 1132).
                    (B) Interpretation.--Interpretive activities shall 
                be developed under the management plan in consultation 
                with State and local historic preservation organizations 
                and shall include a balanced and factual interpretation 
                of the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4218]]

                cultural, ecological, and industrial history of forestry 
                and mining in the Scenic Recreation Area.
            (4) Transportation planning.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                subparagraph, motorized vehicles shall not be permitted 
                in the Scenic Recreation Area. To maintain reasonable 
                motorized and other access to recreation sites and 
                facilities in existence on the date of enactment of this 
                title, the Secretary shall prepare a transportation plan 
                for the Scenic Recreation Area that--
                          (i) evaluates the road network within the 
                      Scenic Recreation Area to determine which roads 
                      should be retained and which roads should be 
                      closed;
                          (ii) provides guidelines for transportation 
                      and access consistent with this section;
                          (iii) considers the access needs of persons 
                      with disabilities in preparing the transportation 
                      plan for the Scenic Recreation Area;
                          (iv) allows forest road 2209 beyond the gate 
                      to the Scenic Recreation Area, as depicted on the 
                      map described in subsection (a)(2), to be used by 
                      motorized vehicles only for administrative 
                      purposes and for access by private inholders, 
                      subject to such terms and conditions as the 
                      Secretary may determine to be necessary; and
                          (v) restricts construction or improvement of 
                      forest road 2209 beyond the gate to the Scenic 
                      Recreation Area to maintaining the character of 
                      the road as it existed upon the date of enactment 
                      of this Act, which shall not include paving or 
                      widening.
        In order to comply with subsection (f)(2), the Secretary may 
        make improvements to forest road 2209 and its bridge 
        structures consistent with the character of the road as it 
        existed on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (5) Hunting and fishing.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to applicable Federal and 
                State law, the Secretary shall permit hunting and 
                fishing in the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (B) Limitation.--The Secretary may designate zones 
                in which, and establish periods when, no hunting or 
                fishing shall be permitted
for reasons of public safety, administration, or public use and 
enjoyment of the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (C) Consultation.--Except during an emergency, as 
                determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall consult 
                with the Oregon State Department of Fish and Wildlife 
                before issuing any regulation under this subsection.
            (6) Timber cutting.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary shall prohibit the cutting and/or selling of 
                trees in the Scenic Reservation Area.
                    (B) Permitted cutting.--
                          (i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the 
                      Secretary may allow the cutting of trees in the 
                      Scenic Recreation Area only--
                                    (I) for public safety, such as to 
                                control the continued spread of a forest 
                                fire in the Scenic

[[Page 110 STAT. 4219]]

                                Recreation Area or on land adjacent to 
                                the Scenic Recreation Area;
                                    (II) for activities related to 
                                administration of the Scenic Recreation 
                                Area, consistent with the Opal Creek 
                                Management Plan; or
                                    (III) for removal of hazard trees 
                                along trails and roadways.
                          (ii) Salvage sales.--The Secretary may not 
                      allow a salvage sale in the Scenic Recreation 
                      Area.
            (7) Withdrawal.--
                    (A) subject to valid existing rights, all lands in 
                the Scenic Recreation Area are withdrawn from--
                          (i) any form of entry, appropriation, or 
                      disposal under the public lands laws;
                          (ii) location, entry, and patent under the 
                      mining laws; and
                          (iii) disposition under the mineral and 
                      geothermal leasing laws.
            (8) Bornite project.--
                    (A) Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
                interfere with or approve any exploration, mining, or 
                mining-related activity in the Bornite Project Area, 
                depicted on the map described in subsection (a)(3), 
                conducted in accordance with applicable laws.
                    (B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
                interfere with the ability of the Secretary to approve 
                and issue, or deny, special use permits in connection 
                with exploration, mining, and mining-related activities 
                in the Bornite Project Area.
                    (C) Motorized vehicles, roads, structures, and 
                utilities (including but not limited to power lines and 
                water lines) may be allowed inside the Scenic Recreation 
                Area to serve the activities conducted on land within 
                the Bornite Project.
                    (D) After the date of enactment of this Act, no 
                patent shall be issued for any mining claim under the 
                general mining laws located within the Bornite Project 
                Area.
            (9) Water impoundments.--Notwithstanding the Federal Power 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), the Federal Energy Regulatory 
        Commission may not license the construction of any dam, water 
        conduit, reservoir, powerhouse, transmission line, or other 
        project work in the Scenic Recreation Area, except as may be 
        necessary to comply with the provisions of paragraph (8) with 
        regard to the Bornite Project.
            (10) Recreations.--
                    (A) Recognition.--Congress recognizes recreation as 
                an appropriate use of the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (B) Minimum levels.--The management plan shall 
                permit recreation activities at not less than the levels 
                in existence on the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Higher levels.--The management plan may 
                provide for levels of recreation use higher than the 
                levels in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
                if such uses are consistent with the protection of the 
                resource values of the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (D) The management plan may include public trail 
                access through section 28, township 8 south, range 5 
                east, Willamette Meridian, to Battle Ax Creek, Opal Pool 
                and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4220]]

                other areas in the Opal Creek Wilderness and the Opal 
                Creek Scenic Recreation Area.
            (11) Participation.--So that the knowledge, expertise, and 
        views of all agencies and groups may contribute affirmatively to 
        the most sensitive present and future use of the Scenic 
        Recreation Area and its various subareas for the benefit of the 
        public:
                    (A) Advisory council.--The Secretary shall consult 
                on a periodic and regular basis with the advisory 
                council established under subsection (e) with respect to 
                matters relating to management of the Scenic Recreation 
                Area.
                    (B) Public participation.--The Secretary shall seek 
                the views of private groups, individuals, and the public 
                concerning the Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (C) Other Agencies.--The Secretary shall seek the 
                views and assistance of, and cooperate with, any other 
                Federal, State, or local agency with any responsibility 
                for the zoning, planning, or natural resources of the 
                Scenic Recreation Area.
                    (D) Nonprofit agencies and organizations.--The 
                Secretary shall seek the views of any nonprofit agency 
                or organization that may contribute information or 
                expertise about the resources and the management of the 
                Scenic Recreation Area.

    (e) Advisory Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        establishment of the Scenic Recreation Area, the Secretary shall 
        establish an advisory council for the Scenic Recreation Area.
            (2) Membership.--The advisory council shall consist of not 
        more than 13 members, of whom--
                    (A) 1 member shall represent Marion County, Oregon, 
                and shall be designated by the governing body of the 
                county;
                    (B) 1 member shall represent the State of Oregon and 
                shall be designated by the Governor of Oregon;
                    (C) 1 member shall represent the City of Salem, and 
                shall be designated by the mayor of Salem, Oregon;
                    (D) 1 member from a city within a 25-mile radius of 
                the Opal Creek Scenic Recreation Area, to be designated 
                by the Governor of the State of Oregon from a list of 
                candidates provided by the mayors of the cities located 
                within a 25-mile radius of the Opal Creek Scenic 
                Recreation Area; and
                    (E) not more than 9 members shall be appointed by 
                the Secretary from among persons who, individually or 
                through association with a national or local 
                organization, have an interest in the administration of 
                the Scenic Recreation Area, including, but not limited 
                to, representatives of the timber industry, 
                environmental organizations, the mining industry, 
                inholders in the Opal Creek Wilderness and Scenic 
                Recreation Area, economic development interests and 
                Indian tribes.
            (3) Staggered terms.--Members of the advisory council shall 
        serve for staggered terms of 3 years.
            (4) Chairman.--The Secretary shall designate 1 member of the 
        advisory council as chairman.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4221]]

            (5) Vacancies.--The Secretary shall fill a vacancy on the 
        advisory council in the same manner as the original appointment.
            (6) Compensation.--Members of the advisory council shall 
        receive no compensation for their service on the advisory 
        council.

    (f) General Provisions.--
            (1) Land acquisition.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to the other provisions of 
                this section, the Secretary may acquire any lands or 
                interests in land in the Scenic Recreation Area or the 
                Opal Creek Wilderness that the Secretary determines are 
                needed to carry out this section.
                    (B) Public land.--Any lands or interests in land 
                owned by a State or a political subdivision of a State 
                may be acquired only by donation or exchange.
                    (C) Condemnation.--Within the boundaries of the Opal 
                Creek Wilderness or the Scenic Recreation Area, the 
                Secretary may not acquire any privately owned land or 
                interest in land without the consent of the owner unless 
                the Secretary finds that--
                          (i) the nature of land use has changed 
                      significantly, or the landowner has demonstrated 
                      intent to change the land use significantly, from 
                      the use that existed on the date of the enactment 
                      of this Act; and
                          (ii) acquisition by the Secretary of the land 
                      or interest in land is essential to ensure use of 
                      the land or interest in land in accordance with 
                      the purposes of this title or the management plan 
                      prepared under subsection (d)(2).
                    (D) Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
                enhance or diminish the condemnation authority available 
                to the Secretary outside the boundaries of the Opal 
                Creek Wilderness or the Scenic Recreation Area.
            (2) Environmental response actions and cost 
        recovery.--
                    (A) Response actions.--Nothing in this section shall 
                limit the authority of the Secretary or a responsible 
                party to conduct an environmental response action in the 
                Scenic Recreation Area in connection with the release, 
                threatened release, or cleanup of a hazardous substance, 
                pollutant, or contaminant, including a response action 
                conducted under the Comprehensive Environmental 
                Response, 
                Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 
                et seq.).
                    (B) Liability.--Nothing in this section shall limit 
                the authority of the Secretary or a responsible party to 
                recover costs related to the release, threatened 
                release, or cleanup of any hazardous substance or 
                pollutant or contaminant in the Scenic Recreation Area.
            (3) Maps and description.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file 
                a map and a boundary description for the Opal Creek 
                Wilderness and for the Scenic Recreation Area with the 
                Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives 
                and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
                Senate.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4222]]

                    (B) Force and effect.--The boundary description and 
                map shall have the same force and effect as if the 
                description and map were included in this section, 
                except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
                typographical errors in the boundary description and 
                map.
                    (C) Availability.--The map and boundary description 
                shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
                the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service, 
                Department of Agriculture.
            (4) Savings provision.--Nothing in this section shall 
        interfere with activity for which a special use permit has been 
        issued, has not been revoked, and has not expired, before the 
        date of enactment of this Act, subject to the terms of the 
        permit.

<<NOTE: Rosboro Lumber Company.>>     (g) Rosboro Land Exchange.--
            (1) Authorization.--Notwithstanding any other law, if the 
        Rosboro Lumber Company (referred to in this subsection as 
        ``Rosboro'') offers and conveys marketable title to the United 
        States to the land described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall convey all right, title and interest held by 
        the United States to sufficient lands described in paragraph (3) 
        to Rosboro, in the order in which they appear in this 
        subsection, as necessary to satisfy the equal value requirements 
        of paragraph (4).
            (2) Land to be offered by rosboro.--The land referred to in 
        paragraph (1) as the land to be offered by Rosboro 
        shall comprise Section 36, Township 8 South, Range 4 East, 
        Willamette Meridian.
            (3) Land to be conveyed by the united states.--The land 
        referred to in paragraph (1) as the land to be conveyed by the 
        United States shall comprise sufficient land from the following 
        prioritized list to be equal value under paragraph (4):
                    (A) Section 5, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, Lot 
                7 (37.63 acres);
                    (B) Section 2, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, Lot 
                3 (29.28 acres);
                    (C) Section 13, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, 
                S\1/2\SE\1/4\ (80 acres);
                    (D) Section 2, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, 
                SW\1/4\SW\1/4\ (40 acres);
                    (E) Section 2, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, 
                NW\1/4\SE\1/4\ (40 acres);
                    (F) Section 8, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, 
                SE\1/4\SW\1/4\ (40 acres);
                    (G) Section 11, Township 17 South, Range 4 East, 
                W\1/2\NW\1/4\ (80 acres);
            (4) Equal value.--The land and interests in land exchanged 
        under this subsection shall be of equal market value as 
        determined by nationally recognized appraisal standards, 
        including, to the extent appropriate, the Uniform Standards for 
        Federal Land Acquisition, the Uniform Standards of Professional 
        Appraisal Practice, or shall be equalized by way of 
        payment of cash pursuant to the provisions of section 206(d) of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1716(d)), and other applicable law. The appraisal shall consider 
        access costs for the parcels involved.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4223]]

            (5) Timetable.--
                    (A) The exchange directed by this subsection shall 
                be consummated not later than 120 days after the date 
                Rosboro offers and conveys the property described in 
                paragraph (2) to the United States.
                    (B) The authority provided by this subsection shall 
                lapse of Rosboro fails to offer the land described in 
                paragraph (2) within 2 years after the date of enactment 
                of this Act.
            (6) Challenge.--Rosboro shall have the right to challenge in 
        the United States District Court for the District of Oregon a 
        determination of marketability under paragraph (1) and a 
        determination of value for the lands described in paragraphs (2) 
        and (3) by the Secretary of Agriculture. 
        The <<NOTE: Courts.>> court shall have the authority to order 
        the Secretary to complete the transaction contemplated in this 
        subsection.
            (7) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to 
        carry out this subsection.

    (h) Designation of Elkhorn Creek as a Wild and Scenic River.--
Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(  )(A) Elkhorn Creek.--The 6.4-mile segment traversing 
federally administered lands from that point along the Willamette 
National Forest boundary on the common section line between Sections 12 
and 13, Township 9 South, Range 4 East, Willamette Meridian, to that 
point where the segment leaves Federal ownership along the Bureau of 
Land Management boundary in Section 1, Township 9 South, Range 3 East, 
Willamette Meridian, in the following classes:
            ``(i) a 5.8-mile wild river area, extending from that point 
        along the Willamette National Forest boundary on the common 
        section line between Sections 12 and 13, Township 9 South, Range 
        4 East, Willamette Meridian, to its confluence with Buck Creek 
        in Section 1, Township 9 South, Range 3 East, Willamette 
        Meridian, to be administered as agreed on by the Secretaries of 
        Agriculture and the Interior, or as directed by the President; 
        and
            ``(ii) a 0.6-mile scenic river area, extending from the 
        confluence with Buck Creek in Section 1, Township 9 South, Range 
        3 East, Willamette Meridian, to that point where the segment 
        leaves Federal ownership along the Bureau of Land Management 
        boundary in Section 1, Township 9 South, Range 3 East, 
        Willamette Meridian, to be administered by the Secretary of 
        Interior, or as directed by the President.

    ``(B) Notwithstanding section 3(b) of this Act, the lateral 
boundaries of both the wild river area and the scenic river area along 
Elkhorn Creek shall include an average of not more than 640 acres per 
mile measured from the ordinary high water mark on both sides of the 
river.''.
    (i) Economic Development.--
            (1) Economic development plan.--As a condition for receiving 
        funding under paragraph (2), the State of Oregon, in 
        consultation with Marion County, Oregon, and the Secretary of 
        Agriculture, shall develop a plan for economic development 
        projects for which grants under this subsection may be used in a 
        manner consistent with this section and to benefit local

[[Page 110 STAT. 4224]]

        communities in the vicinity of the Opal Creek area. Such plan 
        shall be based on an economic opportunity study and other 
        appropriate information.
            (2) Funds provided to the states for grants.--Upon 
        completion of the Opal Creek Management Plan, and receipt of the 
        plan referred to in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide, 
        subject to appropriations, $15,000,000 to the State of Oregon. 
        Such funds shall be used to make grants or loans for economic 
        development projects that further the purposes of this section 
        and benefit the local communities in the vicinity of the Opal 
        Creek area.
            (3) Report.--The State of Oregon shall--
                    (A) prepare and provide the Secretary and Congress 
                with an annual report on the use of the funds made 
                available under this subsection;
                <<NOTE: Records.>>     (B) make available to the 
                Secretary and to Congress, upon request, all accounts, 
                financial records, and other information related to 
                grants and loans made available pursuant to this 
                subsection; and
                    (C) as loans are repaid, make additional grants and 
                loans with the money made available for obligation by 
                such repayments.
SEC.  1024.  UPPER KLAMATH BASIN ECOLOGICAL RESTORATION PROJECTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Ecosystem restoration office.--The term 
        ``Ecosystem Restoration Office'' means the Klamath Basin 
        Ecosystem Restoration Office operated cooperatively by the 
        United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of Reclamation, 
        Bureau of Land Management, and Forest Service.
            (2) Working group.--The term ``Working Group'' means the 
        Upper Klamath Basin Working Group, established before the date 
        of enactment of this title, consisting of members nominated by 
        their represented groups, including--
                    (A) three tribal members;
                    (B) one representative of the City of Klamath Falls, 
                Oregon;
                    (C) one representative of Klamath County, Oregon;
                    (D) one representative of institutions of higher 
                education in the Upper Klamath Basin;
                    (E) four representatives of the environmental 
                community, including at least one such representative 
                from the State of California with interests in the 
                Klamath Basin National Wildlife Refuge Complex;
                    (F) four representatives of local businesses and 
                industries, including at least one representative of the 
                forest products industry and one representative of the 
                ocean commercial fishing industry and/or the 
                recreational fishing industry based in either Oregon or 
                California;
                    (G) four representatives of the ranching and farming 
                community, including representatives of Federal lease-
                land farmers and ranchers and of private land farmers 
                and ranchers in the Upper Klamath Basin;
                    (H) two representatives from State of Oregon 
                agencies with authority and responsibility in the 
                Klamath River Basin, including one from the Oregon 
                Department of Fish

[[Page 110 STAT. 4225]]

                and Wildlife and one from the Oregon Water Resources 
                Department;
                    (I) four representatives from the local community;
                    (J) one representative each from the following 
                Federal resource management agencies in the Upper 
                Klamath Basin: Fish and Wildlife Service, Bureau of 
                Reclamation, Bureau of Land Management, Bureau of Indian 
                Affairs, Forest Service, Natural Resources Conservation 
                Service, National Marine Fisheries Service and Ecosystem 
                Restoration Office; and
                    (K) one representative of the Klamath County Soil 
                and Water Conservation District.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Task force.--The term ``Task Force'' means the 
        Klamath River Basin Fisheries Task Force as established by the 
        Klamath River Basin Fishery Resource Restoration Act (Public Law 
        99-552, 16 U.S.C. 460ss-3 et seq.).
            (5) Compact commission.--The term ``Compact Commission'' 
        means the Klamath River Basin
Compact Commission created pursuant to the Klamath River Compact Act of 
1954.
            (6) Consensus.--The term ``consensus'' means a unanimous 
        agreement by the Working Group members present and consisting of 
        at least a quorum at a regularly scheduled business meeting.
            (7) Quorum.--The term ``quorum'' means one more than half of 
        those qualified Working Group members appointed and eligible to 
        serve.
            (8) Trinity task force.--The term ``Trinity Task Force'' 
        means the Trinity River Restoration Task Force created by Public 
        Law 98-541, as amended by Public Law 104-143.

    (b) In General.--
            (1) The Working Group through the Ecosystem Restoration 
        Office, with technical assistance from the Secretary, will 
        propose ecological restoration projects, economic development 
        and stability projects, and projects designed to reduce the 
        impacts of drought conditions to be undertaken in the Upper 
        Klamath Basin based on a consensus of the Working Group 
        membership.
            (2) The Secretary shall pay, to the greatest extent 
        feasible, up to 50 percent of the cost of performing any project 
        approved by the Secretary or his designee, up to a total amount 
        of $1,000,000 during each of fiscal years 1997 through 2001.
            (3) Funds made available under this title through the 
        Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture 
        shall be distributed through the Ecosystem Restoration Office.
            (4) The Ecosystem Restoration Office may utilize not more 
        than 15 percent of all Federal funds administered under this 
        section for administrative costs relating to the implementation 
        of this section.
            (5) All funding recommendations developed by the Working 
        Group shall be based on a consensus of Working Group 
        members.

    (c) Coordination.--(1) The Secretary shall formulate a cooperative 
agreement among the working group, the Task Force, the Trinity Task 
Force and the Compact Commission for the purposes of ensuring that 
projects proposed and funded through the Working Group are consistent 
with other basin-wide fish and wild

[[Page 110 STAT. 4226]]

life restoration and conservation plans, including but not limited to 
plans developed by the Task Force and the Compact Commission.
<<NOTE: Notification.>>     (2) To the greatest extent practicable, the 
Working Group shall provide notice to, and accept input from, two 
members each of the Task Force, the Trinity Task Force, and the Compact 
Commission, so appointed by those entities, for the express purpose of 
facilitating better communication and coordination regarding additional 
basin-wide fish and wildlife and ecosystem restoration and planning 
efforts. The roles and relationships of the entities involved shall be 
clarified in the cooperative agreement.

    (d) Public Meetings.--The Working Group shall conduct all meetings 
subject to Federal open meeting and public participation laws. The 
chartering requirements of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) are hereby deemed to have been met by this 
section.
    (e) Terms and Vacancies.--Working Group Members shall serve for 
three-year terms, beginning on the date of enactment of this title. 
Vacancies which occur for any reason after the 
date of enactment of this title shall be filled by direct appointment of 
the Governor of the State of Oregon, in consultation with the Secretary 
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, in accordance with 
nominations from the appropriate groups, interests, and government 
agencies outlined in subsection (a)(2).
    (f) Rights, Duties and Authorities Unaffected.--The 
Working Group will supplement, rather than replace, existing efforts to 
manage the natural resources of the Klamath Basin. Nothing in this 
section affects
any legal right, duty or authority of any person or agency, including 
any member of the Working Group.

    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 1997 through 2002.

SEC. 1025. DESCHUTES BASIN ECOSYSTEM RESTORATION PROJECTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Working group.--The term ``Working Group'' means the 
        Deschutes River Basin Working Group established before the date 
        of enactment of this title, consisting of members nominated by 
        their represented groups, including--
                    (A) five representatives of private interests 
                including one each from hydroelectric production, 
                livestock grazing, timber, land development, and 
                recreation/tourism;
                    (B) four representatives of private interests 
                including two each from irrigated agriculture and the 
                environmental community;
                    (C) two representatives from the Confederated Tribes 
                of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon;
                    (D) two representatives from Federal agencies with 
                authority and responsibility in the Deschutes River 
                Basin, including one from the Department of the Interior 
                and one from the Agriculture Department;
                    (E) two representatives from the State of Oregon 
                agencies with authority and responsibility in the 
                Deschutes River Basin, including one from the Oregon 
                Department of Fish and Wildlife and one from the Oregon 
                Water Resources Department; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4227]]

                    (F) four representatives from county or city 
                governments within the Deschutes River Basin county and/
                or city governments.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Federal agencies.--The term ``Federal agencies'' means 
        agencies and departments of the United States, including, but 
        not limited to, the Bureau of Reclamation, Bureau of Indian 
        Affairs, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, 
        Forest Service, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Farm 
        Services Agency, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and the 
        Bonneville Power Administration.
            (4) Consensus.--The term ``consensus'' means a unanimous 
        agreement by the Working Group members present and 
        constituting at least a quorum at a regularly scheduled business 
        meeting.
            (5) Quorum.--The term ``quorum'' means one more than half of 
        those qualified Working Group members appointed and eligible to 
        serve.

    (b) In General.--
            (1) The Working Group will propose ecological restoration 
        projects on both Federal and non-Federal lands and waters to be 
        undertaken in the Deschutes River Basin based on a consensus of 
        the Working Group, provided that such projects, when involving 
        Federal land or funds, shall be proposed to the Bureau of 
        Reclamation in the Department of the Interior and any other 
        Federal agency with affected land or funds.
            (2) The Working Group will accept donations, grants or other 
        funds and place such funds received into a trust fund, to be 
        expended on ecological restoration projects which, when 
        involving Federal land or funds, are approved by the affected 
        Federal agency.
            (3) The Bureau of Reclamation shall pay from funds 
        authorized under subsection (h) of this title up to 50 percent 
        of the cost of performing any project proposed by the Working 
        Group and approved by the Secretary, up to a total amount of 
        $1,000,000 during each of the fiscal years 1997 through 2001.
            (4) Non-Federal contributions to project costs for purposes 
        of computing the Federal matching share under paragraph (3) of 
        this subsection may include in-kind contributions.
            (5) Funds authorized in subsection (h) of this section shall 
        be maintained in and distributed by the Bureau of Reclamation in 
        the Department of the Interior. The Bureau of Reclamation shall 
        not expend more than 5 percent of amounts appropriated pursuant 
        to subsection (h) for Federal administration of such 
        appropriations pursuant to this section.
            (6) The Bureau of Reclamation is authorized to provide by 
        grant to the Working Group not more than 5 percent of funds 
        appropriated pursuant to subsection (h) of this title for not 
        more than 50 percent of administration costs relating to the 
        implementation of this section.
            (7) The Federal agencies with authority and responsibility 
        in the Deschutes River Basin shall provide technical assistance 
        to the Working Group and shall designate representatives to 
        serve as members of the Working Group.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4228]]

            (8) All funding recommendations developed by the Working 
        Group shall be based on a consensus of the Working Group 
        members.

    (c) Public Notice and Participation.--The Working Group shall 
conduct all meetings subject to applicable open meeting and public 
participation laws. The activities of the Working Group and the Federal 
agencies pursuant to the provisions of this title are exempt from the 
provisions of title 5, United States Code, Appendix 2, sections 1-15.
    (d) Priorities.--The Working Group shall give priority to 
voluntary market-based economic incentives for ecosystem restoration 
including, but not limited to, water leases and purchases; land leases 
and purchases; tradable discharge permits; and acquisition of timber, 
grazing, and land development rights to implement plans, programs, 
measures, and projects.
    (e) Terms and Vacancies.--Members of the Working Group representing 
governmental agencies or entities shall be named by the represented 
government. Members of the Working Group representing private interests 
shall be named in accordance with the articles of incorporation and 
bylaws of the Working Group. Representatives from Federal agencies will 
serve for terms of 3 years. Vacancies which occur for any reason after 
the date of enactment of this title shall be filled in accordance with 
this title.
    (f) Additional Projects.--Where existing authority and 
appropriations permit, Federal agencies may contribute to the 
implementation of projects recommended by the Working Group and approved 
by the Secretary.
    (g) Rights, Duties and Authorities Unaffected.--The 
Working Group will supplement, rather than replace, existing efforts to 
manage the natural resources of the Deschutes Basin. Nothing in this 
title affects any legal right, duty or authority of any person or 
agency, including any member of the Working Group.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this title $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
1997 through 2001.

<<NOTE: Oregon.>> SEC. 1026. BULL RUN PROTECTION.--

    (a) Amendments to Public Law 95-200.--
            (1) The first sentence of section 2(a) of the Public Law 95-
        200 <<NOTE: 16 USC 482b note.>>  is amended by striking ``2(b)'' 
        and inserting in lieu thereof ``2(c)''.
            (2) The first sentence of section 2(b) of Public Law 95-200 
        is amended after ``the policy set forth in subsection (a)'' by 
        inserting ``and (b)''.
            (3) Subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e) of section 2 of 
        Public Law 95-200 are redesignated as subsections (c), (d), (e), 
        and (f), respectively.
            (4) Section 2 of Public Law 95-200 is amended by inserting 
        after subsection (a) the following new subsection:

    ``(b) Timber Cutting.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall prohibit the cutting of trees in that part 
        of the unit consisting of the hydrographic boundary of the Bull 
        Run River Drainage, including certain lands within the unit and 
        located below the headworks of the city of Portland, Oregon's 
        water storage and delivery project, and as depicted

[[Page 110 STAT. 4229]]

        in a map dated July 22, 1996, and entitled `Bull Run River 
        Drainage'.
            ``(2) Permitted cutting.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary of Agriculture shall prohibit the cutting of 
                trees in the area described in subparagraph (1).
                    ``(B) Permitted cutting.--Subject to subparagraph 
                (C), the Secretary may only allow the cutting of trees 
                in the area described in subparagraph (1)--
                          ``(i) for the protection or enhancement of 
                      water quality in the area described in 
                      subparagraph (1); or
                          ``(ii) for the protection, enhancement, or 
                      maintenance of water quantity available from the 
                      area described in subparagraph (1); or
                          ``(iii) for the construction, expansion, 
                      protection 
                      or maintenance of municipal water supply 
                      facilities; or
                          ``(iv) for the construction, expansion, 
                      protection or maintenance of facilities for the 
                      transmission of energy through and over the unit 
                      or previously authorized hydroelectric facilities 
                      or hydroelectric projects associated with 
                      municipal water supply facilities.
                    ``(C) Salvage sales.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
                may not authorize a salvage sale in the area described 
                in subparagraph (1).''.

    (b) Report to Congress.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall, in 
consultation with the city of Portland and other affected parties 
undertake a study of that part of the Little Sandy Watershed that is 
within the unit (hereinafter referred to as the ``study area''). The 
study shall determine--
            (1) the impact of management activities within the study 
        area on the quality of drinking water provided to the Portland 
        Metropolitan area;
            (2) the identity and location of certain ecological features 
        within the study area, including late successional forest 
        characteristics, aquatic and terrestrial wildlife habitat, 
        significant hydrological values, or other outstanding natural 
        features; and
            (3) the location and extent of any significant cultural or 
        other values within the study area.

    (c) Recommendations.--The study referred to in subsection (b) shall 
include both legislative and regulatory recommendations to Congress on 
the future management of the study area. In formulating such 
recommendations, the Secretary shall consult with the City of Portland 
and other affected parties.
    (d) Existing Data and Processes.--To the greatest extent possible, 
the Secretary shall use exiting data and processes to carry out the 
study and report.
    (e) Submission to Congress.--The study referred to in subsection (b) 
shall be submitted to the Senate Committees on Energy and Natural 
Resources and Agriculture and the House Committees on Resources and 
Agriculture not later than one year from the date of enactment of this 
section.
    (f) Moratorium.--The Secretary is prohibited from advertising, 
offering or awarding any timber sale within the study area for a period 
of two years after the date of enactment of this section.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4230]]

    (g) Water Rights.--Nothing in this section shall in any way affect 
any State or Federal law governing appropriation, use of or Federal 
right to water on or flowing through National Forest System lands. 
Nothing in this section is intended to influence the relative strength 
of competing claims to the waters of the Little Sandy River. Nothing in 
this section shall be construed to expand or diminish Federal, State, or 
local jurisdiction, 
responsibility, interests, or rights in water resources development or 
control, including rights in and current uses of water resources in the 
unit.
    (h) Other Lands in Unit.--Lands within the Bull Run Management Unit, 
as defined in Public Law 95-200, but not 
contained within the Bull Run River Drainage, as described in the 
amendment made by subsection (a)(4) of this section and as depicted on 
the map dated July 22, 1996, and entitled ``Bull Run River Drainage'', 
shall continue to be managed in accordance with Public Law 95-200.

<<NOTE: 16 USC 1132 note.>> SEC. 1027. OREGON ISLANDS WILDERNESS, 
            ADDITIONS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act of 1964, certain lands within the boundaries of the Oregon Islands 
National Wildlife Refuge, Oregon, comprising approximately 95 acres and 
as generally depicted on a map entitled ``Oregon Island Wilderness 
Additions--Proposed'' dated August 1996, are hereby designated as 
wilderness. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection 
in the offices of the Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of Interior.
    (b) Other Areas Within Refuge Boundaries.--All other 
federally-owned named, unnamed, surveyed and unsurveyed rocks, reefs, 
islets and islands lying within three geographic miles off the coast of 
Oregon and above mean high tide, not currently designated as wilderness 
and also within the Oregon Islands National Wildlife Refuge boundaries 
under the administration of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, 
Department of Interior, as designated by Executive Order 7035, 
Proclamation 2416, Public Land Orders 4395, 4475 and 6287, and Public 
Laws 91-504 and 95-450, are hereby designated as wilderness.
    (c) Areas Under BLM Jurisdiction.--All federally-owned named, 
unnamed, surveyed and unsurveyed rocks, reefs, islets and islands lying 
within three geographic miles off the coast of Oregon and above mean 
high tide, and presently under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
Management, except Chiefs Islands, are hereby designated as wilderness, 
shall become part of the Oregon Islands National Wildlife Refuge and the 
Oregon Islands Wilderness and shall be under the jurisdiction of the 
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior.
    (d) Map and Description.--As soon as practicable after this Act 
takes effect, a map of the wilderness area and a description of its 
boundaries shall be filed with the Senate Committee on Energy and 
Natural Resources and the House Committee on Resources, and such map 
shall have the same force and effect as if included in this section: 
Provided however, That correcting clerical and typographical errors in 
the map and land descriptions may be made.
    (e) Order 6287.--Public Land Order 6287 of June 16, 1982, which 
withdrew certain rocks, reefs, islets, and islands lying within three 
geographical miles off the coast of Oregon and above mean

[[Page 110 STAT. 4231]]

high tide, including the 95 acres described in subsection (a), as an 
addition to the Oregon Islands National Wildlife Refuge is hereby made 
permanent.
SEC. 1028. UMPQUA RIVER LAND EXCHANGE STUDY: POLICY AND DIRECTION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries of the Interior and 
Agriculture (Secretaries) are hereby authorized and directed to 
consult, coordinate and cooperate with the Umpqua Land Exchange Project 
(ULEP), affected units and agencies of State and local government, and, 
as appropriate, the World Forestry Center and National Fish and Wildlife 
Foundation, to assist ULEP's ongoing efforts in studying and analyzing 
land exchange opportunities in the Umpqua River basin and to provide 
scientific, technical, research, mapping and other assistance and 
information to such entities. Such consultation, coordination and 
cooperation shall at a minimum include, but not be limited to--
            (1) working with ULEP to develop or assemble comprehensive 
        scientific and other information (including comprehensive and 
        integrated mapping) concerning the Umpqua River basin's 
        resources of forest, plants, wildlife, fisheries (anadromous and 
        other), recreational opportunities, wetlands, riparian habitat 
        and other physical or natural resources;
            (2) working with ULEP to identify general or specific areas 
        within the basin where land exchanges could promote 
        consolidation of forestland ownership for long-term, sustained 
        timber production; protection and restoration of habitat for 
        plants, fish and wildlife (including any federally listed 
        threatened or endangered species); protection of drinking water 
        supplies; recovery of threatened and endangered species; 
        protection and restoration of wetlands, riparian lands and other 
        environmentally sensitive areas; consolidation of land ownership 
        for improved public access and a broad array of recreational 
        uses; and consolidation of land ownership to achieve management 
        efficiency and reduced costs of administration; and
        <<NOTE: Reports.>>     (3) developing a joint report for 
        submission to the Congress which discusses land exchange 
        opportunities in the basin and outlines either a specific land 
        exchange proposal or proposals which may merit consideration by 
        the Secretaries or the 
        Congress, or ideas and recommendations for new authorizations, 
        direction, or changes in existing law or policy to expedite and 
        facilitate the consummation of beneficial land exchanges in the 
        basin via administrative means.

    (b) Matters for Specific Study.--In analyzing land exchange 
opportunities with ULEP, the Secretaries shall give priority to 
assisting ULEP's ongoing efforts in:
            (1) studying, identifying, and mapping areas where the 
        consolidation of land ownership via land
exchanges could 
promote the goals of long term species and watershed protection and 
utilization, including but not limited to the goals of the Endangered 
Species Act of 1973 more effectively than current land ownership 
patterns and whether any changes in law or policy applicable to such 
lands after consummation of an exchange would be advisable or necessary 
to achieve such goals;
            (2) studying, identifying and mapping areas where land 
        exchanges might be utilized to better satisfy the goals of 
        sustainable timber harvest, including studying whether changes

[[Page 110 STAT. 4232]]

        in existing law or policy applicable to such lands after 
        consummation of an exchange would be advisable or necessary to 
        achieve such goals;
            (3) identifying issues and studying options and 
        alternatives, including possible changes in existing law or 
        policy, to ensure that combined post-exchange revenues to units 
        of local government from State and local property, severance and 
        other taxes or levies and shared Federal land receipts will 
        approximate pre-exchange revenues;
            (4) identifying issues and studying whether possible changes 
        in law, special appraisal instruction, or changes in certain 
        Federal appraisal procedures might be advisable or necessary to 
        facilitate the appraisal of potential exchange lands which may 
        have special characteristics or restrictions affecting land 
        values;
            (5) identifying issues and studying options and 
        alternatives, including changes in existing laws or policy, for 
        achieving land exchanges without reducing the net supply of 
        timber available to small businesses;
            (6) identifying, mapping, and recommending potential changes 
        in land use plans, land classifications, or other actions which 
        might be advisable or necessary to expedite, facilitate or 
        consummate land exchanges in certain areas;
            (7) analyzing potential sources for new or enhanced 
        Federal, State, or other funding to promote improved resource 
        protection, species recovery, and management in the basin; and
            (8) identifying and analyzing whether increased efficiency 
        and better land and resource management could occur through 
        either consolidation of Federal forest management under one 
        agency or exchange of lands between the Forest Service and 
        Bureau of Land Management.

    (c) Report to Congress.--No later than February 1, 1998, ULEP and 
the Secretaries shall submit a joint report to the 
Committee on Resources of the United States House of Representatives and 
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the United States 
Senate concerning their studies, findings, recommendations, mapping and 
other activities conducted pursuant to this section.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--In furtherance of the purposes 
of this section, there is hereby authorized to be appropriated the sum 
of $2,000,000, to remain available until expended.

<<NOTE: Massachusetts. 16 USC 460kkk.>> SEC. 1029. BOSTON HARBOR ISLANDS 
            RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
            (1) to preserve for public use and enjoyment the lands and 
        waters that comprise the Boston Harbor Islands National 
        Recreation Area;
            (2) to manage the recreation area in partnership with the 
        private sector, the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 
        municipalities surrounding Massachusetts and Cape Cod Bays, the 
        Thompson Island Outward Bound Education Center, and 
        Trustees of Reservations, and with historical, business, 
        cultural, civic, recreational and tourism organizations;
            (3) to improve access to the Boston Harbor Islands through 
        the use of public water transportation; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4233]]

            (4) to provide education and visitor information programs to 
        increase public understanding of and appreciation for the 
        natural and cultural resources of the Boston Harbor Islands, 
        including the history of Native American use and involvement.

    (b) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section--
            (1) the term recreation area means the Boston Harbor Islands 
        National Recreation Area established by subsection (c); and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

    (c) Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area.--
            (1) Establishment.--In order to preserve for the benefit and 
        inspiration of the people of the United States as a national 
        recreation area certain lands located in Massachusetts Bay, 
        there is established as a unit of the National Park System the 
        Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area.
            (2) Boundaries.--(A) The recreation area shall be 
        comprised of the lands, waters, and submerged lands generally 
        depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Boston Harbor Islands 
        NRA'', numbered BOHA 80,002, and dated September 1996. Such map 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service. After advising 
        the Committee on Resources of the House of Representatives and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, in 
        writing, the Secretary may make minor revisions of the 
        boundaries of the recreation area when necessary by publication 
        of a revised drawing or other boundary description in the 
        Federal Register.
            (B) The recreation area shall include the following:
                    (i) The areas depicted on the map reference in 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (ii) Landside points required for access, visitor 
                services, and administration in the city of Boston along 
                its Harborwalk and at Long Wharf, Fan Pier, John F. 
                Kennedy Library, and the Custom House; Charlestown Navy 
                Yard; Old Northern Avenue Bridge; the city of Quincy at 
                Squantum Point/Marina Bay, the Fore River Shipyard, and 
                Town River; the Town of Hingham at Hewitt's Cove; the 
                Town of Hull; the city of Salem at Salem National 
                Historic Site; and the city of Lynn at the Heritage 
                State Park.

    (d) Administration of Recreation Area.--
            (1) In general.--The recreation area shall be administered 
        in partnership by the Secretary, the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts, City of Boston and its applicable subdivisions 
        and others in accordance with the provisions of law generally 
        applicable to units of the National Park System, including the 
        Act entitled ``An Act to establish a National Park Service, and 
        for other purposes'', approved August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 
        U.S.C. 1, 2, 3, and 4), and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 
        666; 16 U.S.C. 461-467) as amended and supplemented and in 
        accordance with the integrated management plan specified in 
        subsection (f).
            (2) State and local jurisdiction.--Nothing in this section 
        shall be construed to diminish, enlarge, or modify any right of 
        the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any political subdivision 
        thereof, to exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction or to carry 
        out State laws, rules, and regulations within the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4234]]

        recreation area, including those relating to fish and wildlife, 
        or to tax persons, corporations, franchises, or private property 
        on the lands and waters included in the recreation area.
            (3) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may consult and 
        enter into cooperative agreements with the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts or its political subdivisions to acquire from and 
        provide to the Commonwealth or its political subdivisions goods 
        and services to be used in the cooperative management of lands 
        within the recreation area, if the Secretary determines that 
        appropriations for that purpose are available and the agreement 
        is in the best interest of the United States.
            (4) Construction of facilities on non-federal lands.--In 
        order to facilitate the administration of the recreation area, 
        the Secretary is authorized, subject to the appropriation of 
        necessary funds in advance, to construct essential 
        administrative or visitor use facilities on non-Federal public 
        lands within the recreation area. Such facilities and the use 
        thereof shall be in conformance with applicable plans
            (5) Other property, funds, and services.--The Secretary may 
        accept and use donated funds, property, and services to carry 
        out this section.
            (6) Relationship of recreation area to boston-logan 
        international airport.--With respect to the recreation area, the 
        present and future maintenance, operation, improvement and use 
        of Boston-Logan International Airport and associated flight 
        patterns from time to time in effect shall not be deemed to 
        constitute the use of publicly owned land of a public park, 
        recreation area, or other resource within the meaning of section 
        303(c) of title 49, United States Code, and shall not be deemed 
        to have a significant effect on natural, scenic, and recreation 
        assets within the meaning of section 47101(h)(2) of title 49, 
        United States Code.
            (7) Management in accordance with integrated management 
        plan.--The Secretary shall preserve, interpret, manage, and 
        provide educational and recreational uses for the recreation 
        area, in consultation with the owners and managers of lands in 
        the recreation area, in accordance with the integrated 
        management plan.

    (e) Boston Harbor Islands Partnership Establishment.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is hereby established the 
        Boston Harbor Islands Partnership whose purpose shall be to 
        coordinate the activities of Federal, State, and local 
        authorities and the private sector in the development and 
        implementation of an integrated resource management plan for the 
        recreation area.
            (2) Membership.--The Partnership shall be composed of 13 
        members, as follows:
                    (A) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, to 
                represent the National Park Service.
                    (B) One individual, appointed by the Secretary of 
                Transportation, to represent the United States Coast 
                Guard.
                    (C) Two individuals, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations by the Governor 
                of Massachusetts, to represent the Department of 
                Environmental Management and the Metropolitan District 
                Commission.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4235]]

                    (D) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations by the Chair, to 
                represent the Massachusetts Port Authority.
                    (E) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations by the Chair, to 
                represent the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority.
                    (F) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations by the Mayor of 
                Boston, to represent the Office of Environmental 
                Services of the City of Boston.
                    (G) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations by the Chair, to 
                represent the Boston Redevelopment Authority.
                    (H) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations of the President 
                of the Thompson Island Outward Bound Education Center, 
                to represent the Center.
                    (I) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations of the Chair, to 
                represent the Trustees of Reservations.
                    (J) One individual, appointed by the Secretary, 
                after consideration of recommendations of the President 
                of the Island Alliance, to represent the Alliance, a 
                nonprofit organization whose sole purpose is to provide 
                financial support for the Boston Harbor Islands National 
                Recreation Area.
                    (K) Two individuals, appointed by the Secretary, to 
                represent the Boston Harbor Islands Advisory Council, 
                established in subsection (g).
            (3) Terms of office; reappointment.--(A) Members of the 
        Partnership shall serve for terms of three years. Any 
        member may be reappointed for one additional 3-year term.
            (B) The Secretary shall appoint the first members of the 
        Partnership within 30 days after the date on which the 
        Secretary has received all of the recommendations for 
        appointment pursuant to subsections (b) (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), 
        (8), (9), and (10).
            (C) A member may serve after the expiration of his or her 
        term until a successor has been appointed.
            (4) Compensation.--Members of the Partnership shall serve 
        without pay, but while away from their homes or regular places 
        of business in the performance of services for the Partnership, 
        members shall be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in 
        lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed 
        intermittently in the Government service are allowed expenses 
        under section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
            (5) Election of officers.--The Partnership shall elect one 
        of its members as Chairperson and one as Vice Chairperson. The 
        term of office of the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson shall be 
        one year. The Vice Chairperson shall serve as chairperson in the 
        absence of the Chairperson.
            (6) Vacancy.--Any vacancy on the Partnership shall be filled 
        in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
            (7) Meetings.--The Partnership shall meet at the call of the 
        Chairperson or a majority of its members.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4236]]

            (8) Quorum.--A majority of the Partnership shall 
        constitute a quorum.
            (9) Staff of the partnership.--The Secretary shall 
        provide the Partnership with such staff and technical assistance 
        as the Secretary, after consultation with the Partnership, 
        considers appropriate to enable the Partnership to carry out its 
        duties. The Secretary may accept the services of personnel 
        detailed from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, any political 
        subdivision of the Commonwealth or any entity represented on the 
        Partnership.
            (10) Hearings.--The Partnership may hold such 
        hearings, sit and act at such times and places, take such 
        testimony, and receive such evidence as the Partnership may deem 
        appropriate.
            (11) Donations.--Nothwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the Partnership may seek and accept donations of funds, 
        property, or services from individuals, foundations, 
        corporations, and other private and public entities for the 
        purpose of carrying out this section.
            (12) Use of funds to obtain money.--The Partnership may use 
        its funds to obtain money from any source under any program or 
        law requiring the recipient of such money to make a contribution 
        in order to receive such money.
            (13) Mails.--The Partnership may use the United States mails 
        in the same manner and upon the same conditions as other 
        departments and agencies of the United States.
            (14) Obtaining property.--The Partnership may obtain by 
        purchase, rental, donation, or otherwise, such property, 
        facilities, and services as may be needed to carry out its 
        duties, except that the Partnership may not acquire any real 
        property or interest in real property.
            (15) Cooperative agreements.--For purposes of carrying out 
        the plan described in subsection (f), the Partnership may enter 
        into cooperative agreements with the Commonwealth of 
        Massachusetts, any political subdivision thereof, or with any 
        organization or person.

    (f) Integrated Resource Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Within three years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Partnership shall submit to the 
        Secretary a management plan for the recreation area to be 
        developed and implemented by the Partnership.
            (2) Contents of plan.--The plan shall include (but not be 
        limited to) each of the following:
                    (A) A program providing for coordinated 
                administration of the recreation area with proposed 
                assignment of 
                responsibilities to the appropriate governmental unit at 
                the Federal, State, and local levels, and nonprofit 
                organizations, including each of the following:
                          (i) A plan to finance and support the public 
                      improvements and services recommended in the plan, 
                      including allocation of non-Federal matching 
                      requirements set forth in subsection (h)(2) and a 
                      delineation of profit sector roles and 
                      responsibilities.
                          (ii) A program for the coordination and 
                      consolidation, to the extent feasible, of 
                      activities that may be carried out by Federal, 
                      State, and local agencies having jurisdiction over 
                      land and waters within the recreation

[[Page 110 STAT. 4237]]

                      area, including planning and regulatory 
                      responsibilities.
                    (B) Policies and programs for the following 
                purposes:
                          (i) Enhancing public outdoor recreational 
                      opportunities in the recreation area.
                          (ii) Conserving, protecting, and maintaining 
                      the scenic, historical, cultural, natural and 
                      scientific values of the islands.
                          (iii) Developing educational opportunities in 
                      the recreation area.
                          (iv) Enhancing public access to the Islands, 
                      including development of transportation networks.
                          (v) Identifying potential sources of revenue 
                      from programs or activities carried out within the 
                      recreation area.
                          (vi) Protecting and preserving Native American 
                      burial grounds connected with the King Philip's 
                      War internment period and other periods.
                    (C) A policy statement that recognizes existing 
                economic activities within the recreation area.
            (3) Development of plan.--In developing the plan, the 
        Partnership shall--
                    (A) consult on a regular basis with appropriate 
                officials of any local government or Federal or State 
                agency which has jurisdiction over lands and waters 
                within the recreation area;
                    (B) consult with interested conservation, business, 
                professional, and citizen organizations; and
                    (C) conduct public hearings or meetings for the 
                purposes of providing interested persons with the 
                opportunity to testify with respect to matters to be 
                addressed by the plan.
            (4) Approval of plan.--(A) The Partnership shall submit the 
        plan to the Governor of Massachusetts for review. The Governor 
        shall have 90 days to review and make any 
        recommendations. After considering the Governor's 
        recommendations, the Partnership shall submit the plan to the 
        Secretary, who shall approve or disapprove the plan within 90 
        days. In reviewing the plan the Secretary shall consider each of 
        the following:
                    (i) The adequacy of public participation.
                    (ii) Assurances of plan implementation from State 
                and local officials.
                    (iii) The adequacy of regulatory and financial tools 
                that are in place to implement the plan.
            (B) If the Secretary disapproves the plan, the Secretary 
        shall within 60 days after the date of such disapproval, advise 
        the Partnership in writing of the reasons therefore, together 
        with recommendations for revision. Within 90 days of receipt of 
        such notice of disapproval, the Partnership shall revise and 
        resubmit the plan to the Secretary who shall approve or 
        disapprove the revision within 60 days.
            (5) Interim program.--Prior to adoption of the Partnership's 
        plan, the Secretary and the Partnership shall assist the owners 
        and managers of lands and waters within the 
        recreation area to ensure that existing programs, services, and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4238]]

        activities that promote the purposes of this section are 
        supported.

    (g) Boston Harbor Islands Advisory Council.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Director of the National Park Service, shall establish an 
        advisory committee to be known as the Boston Harbor Islands 
        Advisory Council. The purpose of the Advisory Council shall be 
        to represent various groups with interests in the recreation 
        area and make recommendations to the Boston Harbor Islands 
        Partnership on issues related to the development and 
        implementation of the integrated resource management plan 
        developed under subsection (f). The Advisory Council is 
        encouraged to establish committees relating to specific 
        recreation area management issues, including (but not limited 
        to) education, tourism, transportation, natural resources, 
        cultural and historic resources, and revenue raising activities. 
        Participation on any such committee shall not be limited to 
        members of the Advisory Council.
            (2) Membership.--The Advisory Council shall consist of not 
        fewer than 18 individuals, to be appointed by the Secretary, 
        acting through the Director of the National Park Service. The 
        Secretary shall appoint no fewer than three individuals to 
        represent each of the following categories of entities: 
        municipalities; educational and cultural institutions; 
        environmental organizations; business and commercial entities, 
        including those related to transportation, tourism and the 
        maritime industry; and Boston Harbor-related advocacy 
        organizations; and organizations representing Native American 
        interests.
            (3) Procedures.--Each meeting of the Advisory Council and 
        its committees shall be open to the public.
            (4) FACA.--The provisions of section 14 of the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), are hereby waived with 
        respect to the Advisory Council.

    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
        such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section, 
        provided that no funds may be appropriated for land acquisition.
            (2) Matching requirement.--Amounts appropriated in any 
        fiscal year to carry out this section may only be expended on a 
        matching basis in a ration of at least three non-Federal dollars 
        to every Federal dollar. The non-Federal share of the match may 
        be in the form of cash, services, or in-kind contributions, 
        fairly valued.

<<NOTE: Mississippi.>> SEC. 1030. NATCHEZ NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.

    Section 3 of the Act of October 8, 1988, entitled ``An Act to create 
a national park at Natchez, <<NOTE: 16 USC 410oo-2.>> Mississippi'' (16 
U.S.C. 410oo et seq.), is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' after ``Sec. 3.''; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

    ``(b) Building for Joint Use by the Secretary and the City of 
Natchez.--
            ``(1) Contribution toward construction.--The Secretary may 
        enter into an agreement with the City of Natchez under which the 
        Secretary agrees to pay not to exceed $3,000,000 toward the 
        planning and construction by the City of Natchez

[[Page 110 STAT. 4239]]

        of a structure to be partially used by the Secretary as an 
        administrative headquarters, administrative site, and visitors' 
        center for Natchez National Historical Park.
            ``(2) Use for satisfaction of matching requirements.--The 
        amount of payment under paragraph (1) may be available for 
        matching Federal grants authorized under other law 
        notwithstanding any limitations in any such law.
            ``(3) Agreement.--Prior to the execution of an agreement 
        under paragraph (1), and subject to the appropriation of 
        necessary funds in advance, the Secretary may enter into a 
        contract, lease, cooperative agreement, or other appropriate 
        form of agreement with the City of Natchez providing for the use 
        and occupancy of a portion of the structure constructed under 
        paragraph (1) (including appropriate use of the land on which it 
        is situated), at no cost to the Secretary (except maintenance, 
        utility, and other operational costs), for a period of 50 years, 
        with an option for renewal by the Secretary for an additional 50 
        years.
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--There is 
        authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 to carry out this 
        subsection.''.

<<NOTE: California.>> SEC. 1031. SUBSTITUTION OF TIMBER FOR CANCELED 
            TIMBER SALE.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the provisions of the Act of July 
31, 1947 (30 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), and the requirements of section 
5402.0-6 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, the Secretary of the 
Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management, is authorized to 
substitute, without competition, a contract for timber identified for 
harvest located on public lands administered by the Bureau of Land 
Management in the State of California of comparable value for the 
following terminated 
timber contract: Elkhorn Ridge Timber Sale, Contract No. 
CA-050-TS-88-01.
    (b) Disclaimer.--Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
changing any law or policy of the Federal Government beyond the timber 
sale substitution specified in this section.

SEC. 1032. RURAL ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Section 504(g) of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1764(g)) is amended by striking 
``financed pursuant to the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as 
amended,'' in the last sentence and inserting ``eligible for financing 
pursuant to the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, 
determined without regard to any application requirement under that 
Act,''.
<<NOTE: Applicability. 43 USC 1764 note.>>     (b) Effective Date.--The 
amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to rights-of-
way leases held on or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 1033. FEDERAL BOROUGH RECOGNITION.

    (a) Section 6901(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
            ``(2)(A) `unit of general local government' means--
                    ``(i) a county (or parish), township, borough, or 
                city where the city is independent of any other unit of 
                general local government, that--
                          ``(I) is within the class or classes of such 
                      political subdivision in a State that the 
                      Secretary of the Interior,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4240]]

                      in his discretion, determines to be the principal 
                      provider or providers of governmental services 
                      within the State; and
                          ``(II) is a unit of general government, as 
                      determined by the Secretary of the Interior on the 
                      basis of the same principles as were used by the 
                      Secretary of 
                      Commerce on January 1, 1983, for general 
                      statistical purposes;
                    ``(ii) any area in Alaska that is within the 
                boundaries of a census area used by the Secretary of 
                Commerce in the decennial census, but that is not 
                included within the boundary of a governmental entity 
                described under 
                clause (i);
                    ``(iii) the District of Columbia;
                    ``(iv) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
                    ``(v) Guam; and
                    ``(vi) the Virgin Islands.
            ``(B) the term `governmental services' includes, but is not 
        limited to, those services that relate to public safety, the 
        environment, housing, social services, transportation, and 
        governmental administration.''.

    (b) Payment in Lieu of Taxes.--Section 6902(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the 
Interior shall make a payment for each fiscal year to each unit of 
general local government in which entitlement land is located as set 
forth in this chapter. A unit of general local government may use the 
payment for any governmental purpose.
<<NOTE: Alaska.>>     ``(2) For each unit of general local government 
described in section 6901(2)(A)(ii), the Secretary of the Interior shall 
make a payment for each fiscal year to the State of Alaska for 
entitlement land located within such unit as set forth in this chapter. 
The State of Alaska shall distribute such payment to home rule cities 
and general law cities (as such cities are defined by the State) located 
within the boundaries of the unit of general local government for which 
the payment was received. Such cities may use monies received under this 
paragraph for any governmental 
purpose.''.

SEC. 1034. EXTENSION OF STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any of the Alaska Native 
Village Corporations of Tyonek Native Corporation, Ninilchik Native 
Association, Inc., Knikatnu Inc., Seldovia Native Association, Inc., 
Chikaloon Moose Creek Native Association, Inc., and the Alaska Native 
Regional Corporation, Cook Inlet Region, Inc. may commence litigation at 
any time within 12 months of enactment of this Act in Federal District 
Court for Alaska to challenge any determination by the Department of the 
Interior that such native corporations will not receive conveyance of 
lands described in ``Appendix C'' of the Deficiency Agreement dated 
August 31, 1976.

SEC. 1035. REGULATIONS OF FISHING IN CERTAIN WATERS OF ALASKA.

    (a) In General.--Local residents who are descendants of Katmai 
residents who lived in the Naknek Lake and River Drainage shall be 
permitted, subject to reasonable regulations established by the 
Secretary of the Interior, to continue their traditional fishery for red 
fish within Katmai National Park (the national park and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4241]]

national preserve redesignated, established, and expanded under section 
202(2) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
410hh-1)).
    (b) Red Fish Defined.--For the purposes of subsection (a), the term 
``red fish'' means spawned-out sockeye salmon that has no significant 
commercial value.
    (c) Title.--No provision of this section shall be construed to 
invalidate or validate or in any other way affect any claim by the State 
of Alaska to title to any or all submerged lands, nor shall any actions 
taken pursuant to or in accordance with this Act operate under any 
provision or principle of the law to bar the State of Alaska from
asserting at any time its claim of title to any or all of the submerged 
lands.

    (d) Jurisdiction.--Nothing in this section nor in any actions taken 
pursuant to this section shall be construed as expanding or diminishing 
Federal or State jurisdiction, responsibility, interests, or rights in 
management, regulation, or control over waters of the State of Alaska or 
submerged lands under any provision of Federal or State law.

SEC. 1036. CREDIT FOR RECONVEYANCE.

    Within 24 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Cape Fox Corporation may transfer all or part of its right, title, and 
interest in and to the approximately 320-acre parcel that includes 
Beaver Falls Hydroelectric power-house site to the United States as part 
of an equal value exchange.

SEC. 1037. RADIO SITE REPORT.

    The Secretary of Agriculture (1) shall have a period of 180 days 
from the date of enactment of this Act to review management of 
Inspiration Point, San Bernadino National Forest, make determination 
whether the continued presence of the KATY-FM antenna on the site is in 
the public interest, and report the determination with the reasons 
therefor to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, United States 
Senate, and the Committee on Resources, House of Representatives, and 
(2) shall take no action within such period which causes or results in, 
directly or indirectly, the removal of the antenna from the site.

        TITLE XI--CALIFORNIA BAY DELTA ENVIRONMENTAL ENHANCEMENT

SEC. 1101. PROGRAM FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each of the fiscal years 
1998, 1999, and 2000, there are authorized to be appropriated an 
additional $143,300,000 for both--
            (1) the initial Federal share of the cost of developing and 
        implementing that portion of an ecosystem protection plan for 
        the Bay-Delta, referred to as ``the Category III program'' 
        emanating out of the document entitled ``Principles for 
        Agreement on Bay-Delta Standards between the State of California 
        and the Federal Government'', dated December 15, 1994, and
            (2) the initial Federal share of the cost of developing and 
        implementing the ecosystem restoration elements of the long-term 
        CALFED Bay-Delta Program, pursuant to the cost 
        sharing agreement required by section 78684.10 of 


[[Page 110 STAT. 4242]]

        California Senate Bill 900, Chapter 135, Statutes of 1996, 
        signed by the Governor of California on July 11, 1996.

Funds appropriated pursuant to this section shall remain available until 
expended and shall be administered in accordance with procedures 
established by CALFED Bay-Delta Program until Congress authorizes 
another entity that is recommended by CALFED 
Bay-Delta Program to carry out this section.
    (b) Treatment of Funds.--Funds authorized to be appropriated 
pursuant to this section to those agencies that are currently or 
subsequently become participants in the CALFED Bay-Delta Program shall 
be in addition to the baseline funding levels established pursuant to 
subsection (e), for currently authorized projects and programs under the 
Central Valley Project Improvement Act (title XXXIV of Public Law 102-
575) and other currently authorized Federal programs for the purpose of 
Bay-Delta ecosystem protection and restoration.
    (c) Long-Term Solution.--Nothing in this section shall be deemed to 
diminish the Federal interest in and responsibility for working with the 
State of California through the CALFED 
Bay-Delta Program in developing, funding, and implementing a balanced, 
long-term solution to the problems of ecosystem quality, water quality, 
water supply and reliability, and system vulnerability affecting the San 
Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Watershed in California. 
Participation in such long-term solution shall only be undertaken 
pursuant to authorization provided by law other than this section, and 
shall be based on the equitable allocation of program costs among 
beneficiary groups that the CALFED Bay-Delta programs shall develop.
    (d) Activities.--To the extent not otherwise authorized, those 
agencies and departments that are currently or subsequently become 
participants in the CALFED Bay-Delta Program are hereby authorized to 
undertake the activities and programs for which Federal cost sharing is 
provided by this section. The United States shall immediately initiate 
coordinated consultations and 
negotiations with the State of California to expeditiously execute the 
cost-sharing agreement required by section 78684.10 of California Senate 
Bill 900, Chapter 135, Statutes of 1996, signed by the Governor of 
California on July 11, 1996. Such activities shall include, but not be 
limited to, planning, design, technical assistance, and construction for 
ecosystem restoration programs and projects.
    (e) Budget Crosscut.--The Office of Management and Budget is 
directed to submit to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations, 
as part of the President's Fiscal Year 1998 Budget, an interagency 
budget crosscut that displays Federal spending for fiscal years 1993 
through 1998 on ecosystem restoration and other purposes in the Bay-
Delta region, separately showing funding 
provided previously or requested under both pre-existing authorities and 
new authorities granted by this section.
    (f) Effective Date.--Subsections (a) through (d) of this section 
shall take effect on the date of passage of California State Proposition 
204.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4243]]

                               DIVISION II

 <<NOTE: National Coal Heritage Area Act of 1996. West Virginia. 16 USC 
461 note.>> TITLE I--NATIONAL COAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``National Coal Heritage Area Act of 
1996''.

SEC. 102. FINDINGS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) Certain events that led to the development of southern 
        West Virginia's coalfields during the latter part of the 19th 
        Century and the early part of the current century are of 
        national historic and cultural significance in terms of their 
        contribution to the industrialization of the United States, the 
        organization of workers into trade unions, and the unique 
        culture of the Appalachian Region.
            (2) It is in the national interest to preserve and protect 
        physical remnants of this era for the education and benefit of 
        present and future generations.
            (3) There is a need to provide assistance for the 
        preservation and promotion of those vestiges of southern West 
        Virginia's coal heritage which have outstanding cultural, 
        historic, and architectural value.

SEC. 103. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) In General.--For the purpose of preserving and interpreting for 
the educational and inspirational benefit of present and future 
generations certain lands and structures with unique and significant 
historic and cultural value associated with the coal mining heritage of 
the State of West Virginia and the Nation, there is hereby established 
the National Coal Heritage Area (hereafter in this title referred to as 
the ``Area'').
    (b) Boundaries.--The Area shall be comprised of the counties in the 
State of West Virginia that are the subject of the study by the National 
Park Service, dated 1993, entitled ``A Coal Mining Heritage Study: 
Southern West Virginia'' conducted pursuant to title VI of Public Law 
100-699.
    (c) Administration.--The Area shall be administered in accordance 
with this title.

SEC. 104. CONTRACTUAL AGREEMENT.

    The Secretary of the Interior (hereafter in this title referred to 
as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to enter into a contractual 
agreement with the Governor of the State of West Virginia, acting 
through the Division of Culture and History and the Division of Tourism 
and Parks, pursuant to which the Secretary shall assist the State of 
West Virginia, its units of local government, and nonprofit 
organizations in each of the following:
            (1) The development and implementation of integrated 
        cultural, historical, and land resource management policies and 
        programs in order to retain, enhance, and interpret the 
        significant values of the lands, water, and structures of the 
        Area.
            (2) The preservation, restoration, maintenance, operation, 
        interpretation, and promotion of buildings, structures, 
        facilities,

[[Page 110 STAT. 4244]]

        sites, and points of interest for public use that possess 
        cultural, historical, and architectural values associated with 
        the coal mining heritage of the Area.
            (3) The coordination of activities by Federal, State, and 
        local governments and private businesses and organizations in 
        order to further historic preservation and compatible 
        economic revitalization.
            (4) The development of guidelines and standards for 
        projects, consistent with standards established by the National 
        Park Service, for the preservation and restoration of historic 
        properties, including interpretative methods, that will further 
        history preservation in the region.

 SEC. 105. ELIGIBLE RESOURCES.

    The resources eligible for the assistance under paragraphs (2) and 
(5) of section 104 shall include those set forth in appendix D of the 
study by the National Park Service, dated 1993, entitled ``A Coal Mining 
Heritage Study: Southern West Virginia'', conducted pursuant to title VI 
of Public Law 100-699. Priority consideration shall be given to those 
sites listed as ``Conservation Priorities'' and ``Important Historic 
Resources'' as depicted on the map entitled ``Study Area: Historic 
Resources'' in such study.

SEC. 106. COAL HERITAGE MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) In General.--Pursuant to the contractual agreement referred to 
in section 104, within three years after the date of enactment of this 
title, the Governor of the State of West Virginia, acting through the 
Division of Culture and History and the Division of Tourism and Parks, 
shall submit to the Secretary a Coal Heritage Management Plan for the 
Area. The plan shall at a minimum--
            (1) set forth the integrated cultural, historical, and land 
        resource management policies and programs referred to in 
        section 104;
            (2) describe the guidelines and standards for projects 
        referred to in section 104; and
            (3) set forth the responsibilities of the State of West 
        Virginia, units of local government, nonprofit entities, or 
        Secretary to administer any properties acquired pursuant to 
        section 104.

    (b) Plan Approval.--The Secretary shall approve the plan submitted 
under subsection (a) unless he determines that it would meet the 
objectives of this title.

SEC. 107. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any 
assistance under this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 108. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Area under this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title may 
not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of any assistance or grant 
provided or authorized under this title.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4245]]

TITLE <<NOTE: 16 USC 461 note.>>  II--TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR

                              HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 201. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) there are situated in the State of Tennessee the sites 
        of several key Civil War battles, campaigns, and engagements;
            (2) certain sites, battlefields, structures, and areas in 
        Tennessee are collectively of national significance in the 
        history of the Civil War;
            (3) the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission, established by 
        Congress in 1991, identified 38 sites in Tennessee as 
        significant;
            (4) the preservation and interpretation of these sites will 
        make an important contribution to the understanding of the 
        heritage of the United States;
            (5) the preservation of Civil War sites within a regional 
        framework requires cooperation among local property owners and 
        Federal, State, and local government entities; and
            (6) partnerships between Federal, State, and local 
        governments and their regional entities, and the private sector, 
        offer the most effective opportunities for the enhancement and 
        management of the Civil War battlefields and related sites 
        located in Tennessee.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to preserve, conserve, and interpret the legacy of the 
        Civil War in Tennessee;
            (2) to recognize and interpret important events and 
        geographic locations representing key Civil War battles, 
        campaigns, and engagements in Tennessee;
            (3) to recognize and interpret the effect of the Civil War 
        on the civilian population of Tennessee during the war and 
        postwar reconstruction period; and
            (4) to create partnerships among Federal, State, and local 
        governments and their regional entities, and the private sector 
        to preserve, conserve, enhance, and interpret the battlefields 
        and associated sites associated with the Civil War in Tennessee.

SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title:
            (1) The term ``national heritage area'' means the Tennessee 
        Civil War Heritage Area as designated pursuant to section 203.
            (2) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (3) The term ``compact'' means the compact approved under 
        section 204.
            (4) The term ``management plan'' means the management plan 
        submitted under section 205.

SEC. 203. TENNESSEE CIVIL WAR HERITAGE AREA.

<<NOTE: Federal Register, publication.>>     (a) Designation.--Upon 
publication by the Secretary in the Federal Register of notice that a 
compact regarding the Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area has been 
approved by the Secretary in accordance with this title, there is hereby 
designated the Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4246]]

    (b) Boundaries.--The Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area shall be 
comprised of areas of the State of Tennessee depicted on the map 
entitled ``Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area''. The map shall be on file 
and available for public inspection in the office of the Director of the 
National Park Service.
    (c) Administration.--The national heritage area shall be 
administrated in accordance with the compact and the management plan.

SEC. 204. COMPACT.

    (a) Compact.--The compact referred to in section 203(a) shall 
include information relating to the objectives and management of the 
area proposed for designation as the national heritage area. Such 
information shall include (but not be limited to) each of the following:
            (1) A delineation of the boundaries of the proposed national 
        heritage area.
            (2) A discussion of the goals and objectives of the proposed 
        national heritage area, including an explanation of the approach 
        proposed by the partners referred to in paragraph (4), to 
        conservation and interpretation of resources.
            (3) An identification and description of the management 
        entity that will administer the proposed national heritage area.
            (4) A list of the initial partners to be involved in 
        developing and implementing the management plan for the proposed 
        national heritage area, and a statement of the financial 
        commitment of the partners.
            (5) A description of the role of the State of Tennessee.

    (b) Preparation of and Actions Called for in Compact.--The compact 
shall be prepared with public participation. Actions called for in the 
compact shall be likely to be initiated within a reasonable time after 
designation of the proposed national heritage area and shall ensure 
effective implementation of the State and local aspects of the compact.
    (c) Approval and Disapproval of Compacts.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Governor of Tennessee, shall approve or disapprove the proposed 
        compact not later than 90 days after receiving such compact.
            (2) Procedures if disapproved.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves a proposed compact, the Secretary shall advise, in 
        writing, of the reasons for the disapproval and shall make 
        recommendations for revisions of the proposed compact. The 
        Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed revision to 
        such a compact within 90 days after the date on which the 
        revision is submitted to the Secretary.

SEC. 205. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Management Plans.--A management plan submitted under this title 
for the national heritage area shall present comprehensive 
recommendations for the conservation, funding, management, and 
development of the area. The management plan shall--
            (1) be prepared with public participation;
            (2) take into consideration existing Federal, State, county, 
        and local plans and involve residents, public agencies, and 
        private organizations in the area;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4247]]

            (3) include a description of actions that units of 
        government and private organizations are recommended to take to 
        protect the resources of the area;
            (4) specify existing and potential sources of funding for 
        the conservation, management, and development of the area; and
            (5) include the following, as appropriate:
                    (A) An inventory of the resources contained in the 
                national heritage area, including a list of property in 
                the area that should be conserved, restored, managed, 
                developed, or maintained because of the natural, 
                cultural, or historic significance of the property as it 
                relates to the themes of the area.
                    (B) A recommendation of policies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including (but not limited to) the development of 
                intergovernmental cooperative agreements to manage the 
                historical, cultural, and natural resources and the 
                recreational opportunities of the area in a manner 
                consistent with the support of appropriate and 
                compatible economic viability.
                    (C) A program, including plans for restoration and 
                construction, for implementation of the management plan 
                by the management entity specified in the compact for 
                the area and specific commitments, for the first 5 years 
                of operation of the plan, by the partners identified in 
                the compact.
                    (D) An analysis of means by which Federal, State, 
                and local programs may best be coordinated to promote 
                the purposes of this title.
                    (E) An interpretive plan for the national heritage 
                area.

    (b) Management Entities.--The management entity for the national 
heritage area shall do each of the following:
            (1) Develop and submit to the Secretary a management plan 
        not later than three years after the date of the designation of 
        the area as a national heritage area.
            (2) Give priority to the implementation of actions, goals, 
        and policies set forth in the compact and management plan for 
        the area, including--
                    (A) assisting units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations--
                          (i) in conserving the national heritage area;
                          (ii) in establishing and maintaining 
                      interpretive exhibits in the area;
                          (iii) in developing recreational opportunities 
                      in the area;
                          (iv) in increasing public awareness of and 
                      appreciation for the natural, historical, and 
                      cultural resources of the area;
                          (v) in the restoration of historic buildings 
                      that are located within the boundaries of the area 
                      and relate to the themes of the area; and
                          (vi) in ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                      environmentally appropriate signs identifying 
                      access points and sites of interest are put in 
                      place throughout the area; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4248]]

                    (B) consistent with the goals of the management 
                plan, encouraging economic viability in the affected 
                communities by appropriate means.
            (3) In developing and implementing the management plan for 
        the area, consider the interests of diverse units of government, 
        businesses, private property owners, and nonprofit groups within 
        the geographic area.
        <<NOTE: Public information.>>     (4) Conduct public meetings at 
        least quarterly regarding the implementation of the management 
        plan for the area.

    (c) Clearing House.--The Congress recognizes the Center for Historic 
Preservation at Middle Tennessee State University as the clearing house 
for the Tennessee Civil War Heritage Area.

SEC. 206. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF SECRETARY.

    The Secretary--
            (1) may provide technical assistance and grants to units of 
        government and private nonprofit organizations regarding the 
        compact and, upon request of the management entity for the 
        national heritage area, regarding the management plan and its 
        implementation;
            (2) may not, as a condition of the award of technical 
        assistance or grants under this section, require any recipient 
        of such technical assistance or grants to enact or modify land 
        use restrictions; and
            (3) may not make limitations on fishing, hunting, or 
        trapping a condition for the approval of the compact or the 
        determination of eligibility for technical assistance or grants 
        under this section.

SEC. 207. SAVINGS PROVISIONS.

    (a) Lack of Effect on Authority of Governments.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify, enlarge, or diminish any authority 
of the Federal, State, or local governments to regulate any use of land 
as provide for by law or regulation.
    (b) Lack of Zoning or Land Use Powers of Entity.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to grant powers of zoning or land use to any 
management entity for the national heritage area.

    (c) Fish and Wildlife.--The designation of the national heritage 
area shall not diminish the authority of the State of Tennessee to 
manage fish and wildlife, including the regulation of fishing and 
hunting within such area.

SEC. 208. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any 
assistance under this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 209. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the national heritage area 
under this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of the national heritage area, may not exceed 50 
percent of the total cost of any assistance or grant provided or 
authorized under this title.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4249]]

 <<NOTE: Georgia. 16 USC 461 note.>> TITLE III--AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL 
HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds that--
            (1) the Augusta Canal National Landmark in the State of 
        Georgia, listed on the National Historic Register of Historic 
        Places, and designated by the Governor of Georgia as one of four 
        regionally important resources in the State, is one of the last 
        unspoiled areas in the State of Georgia;
            (2) the Augusta Canal National Historic Landmark 
        possesses excellent water quality, beautiful rural and historic 
        cultural landscapes, architecturally significant mill structures 
        and mill villages, and large acreages of parks and permanent 
        open space;
            (3) three national historic districts, the Harrisburg, Laney 
        Walker, and Greene Street districts, and two national historic 
        landmarks, Stallings Island, located in the Savannah River, and 
        Meadow Garden, are connected by the Augusta Canal Area;
            (4) the beautiful rural landscapes and historic cultural 
        landscapes, scenic vistas and excellent water quality of the 
        Augusta Canal contain significant undeveloped recreational 
        opportunities for people throughout the United States;
            (5) the Augusta Canal and related mill sites, structures, 
        and associated neighborhoods are representatives of the 
        development of the cotton textile industry and associated 
        agriculture and trade in the South;
            (6) the transformation of the agrarian economy of the area 
        into an early industrial economy was precipitated by the 
        development and use of the Augusta Canal;
            (7) several significant sites associated with the American 
        Revolution, the Civil War, Native Americans, Colonial 
        Americans, African Americans, Chinese Americans, and Irish 
        Americans are located within the Augusta Canal area;
            (8) despite the efforts by the State of Georgia, political 
        subdivisions of the State, volunteer organizations, and private 
        businesses, the cultural, historical, natural, and recreational 
        resources of the area have not realized full potential and may 
        be lost without assistance from the Federal Government;
            (9) the Secretary of the Interior considers this landmark to 
        be threatened and has designated it a priority for protection;
            (10) many local, regional, and State agencies, businesses, 
        and private citizens have expressed an overwhelming desire to 
        combine forces to work cooperatively to preserve and enhance the 
        resources of the Augusta Canal National Historic Landmark and 
        better plan for its future; and
            (11) the Augusta Canal Authority, a public body established 
        under the law of the State of Georgia, would be an appropriate 
        management entity for a National Heritage Area established in 
        the area of the Augusta Canal.

SEC. 302. PURPOSE.

    It is the purpose of this title to provide a cooperative management 
framework to assist the State of Georgia, its units of local government, 
and area citizens in retaining, enhancing, and 


[[Page 110 STAT. 4250]]

interpreting the significant features of the lands, water, and 
structures of the Augusta Canal, in a manner that is consistent with 
positive economic impact and development for the benefit and inspiration 
of present and future generations in the State of Georgia and the United 
States.
SEC. 303. DESIGNATION OF AUGUSTA CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Designation.--There is hereby designated in the State of Georgia 
the Augusta Canal National Heritage Area (referred to in this title as 
the ``Heritage Area'').
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Heritage Area shall include the land 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``The Augusta Canal'', 
        numbered AUCA-80,000, and dated August 1994, which shall be on 
        file and available for public inspection in the Office of the 
        Director of the National Park Service, Washington, D.C.
            (2) Legal description.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this title, the Secretary of the Interior 
        (referred to in this title as the ``Secretary'') shall prepare 
        and place on file with the map described in paragraph (1) a 
        legal description of the boundaries of the Heritage Area.

SEC. 304. MANAGEMENT.

    The Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park 
Service, shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the Augusta Canal 
Authority, a public body established under the law of the State of 
Georgia, providing for the management of the 
Heritage Area by the Augusta Canal Authority under terms and conditions 
stated in the cooperative agreement. The Secretary shall consult with 
the Augusta Canal Authority before carrying out any management authority 
with respect to the Heritage Area which is not provided for by the 
cooperative agreement.

SEC. 305. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Preparation of Plan.--Not later than three years after the date 
of enactment of this title, the Augusta Canal Authority shall prepare 
and submit to the Secretary for review and approval a plan for the 
management and administration of the Heritage Area.
    (b) Contents.--The plan shall be based on Federal, State, and local 
plans in existence on the date of enactment of this title, including the 
Augusta Canal Master Plan. The Augusta Canal Authority shall coordinate 
and combine such plans and 
present an integrated and cooperative approach for the protection, 
enhancement, and interpretation of the cultural, natural, scenic, and 
recreational resources of the Heritage Area.
    (c) Assistance.--The Secretary may provide technical and financial 
assistance in the preparation of the management plan.
    (d) Approval.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after receipt of 
        the plan submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove the plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve a plan, the 
        Secretary shall consider--
                    (A) whether the plan has strong local support from a 
                diversity of landowners, business interests, nonprofit 
                organizations, and governments within the area;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4251]]

                    (B) whether the plan is consistent with and 
                complements continued economic activity in the area;
                    (C) whether the plan has a high potential for 
                effective partnership mechanisms;
                    (D) whether the plan improperly infringes on private 
                property rights; and
                    (E) whether the plan will take appropriate action to 
                ensure private property rights are observed.
            (3) Disapproval.--
                <<NOTE: Notification.>>     (A) In general.--If the 
                Secretary disapproves the 
                proposed management plan, the Secretary shall notify the 
                Augusta Canal Authority of the disapproval in writing.
                    (B) Contents.--A notification under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                          (i) the reasons for the disapproval; and
                          (ii) recommendations for revision.
                    (C) Revised plan.--The Augusta Canal Authority shall 
                revise and resubmit the management plan to the Secretary 
                for approval. Not later than 180 days after receipt of 
                the revised plan, the Secretary shall approve or 
                disapprove the plan as provided in paragraph (2). The 
                Augusta Canal Authority shall revise and submit the 
                management plan until the management plan is approved by 
                the Secretary.

    (e) Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Upon approval of the management plan as 
        provided in subsection (d), the Secretary, in conjunction with 
        the Augusta Canal Authority, shall take appropriate steps to 
        implement the management plan.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary is 
        authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the State 
        of Georgia, political subdivisions of the State, the Augusta 
        Canal Authority, or any organization or individual to implement 
        the management plan.

    (f) Economic Development.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Augusta Canal Authority, the State of Georgia, the City of Augusta, and 
other political subdivisions of the State of Georgia should encourage, 
by appropriate means, enhanced economic and industrial development in 
the area consistent with the goals of the Augusta Canal Master Plan.

SEC. 306. GRANTS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.

    The Secretary may provide grants and technical assistance for the 
purposes of this title.
SEC. 307. ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY.

    The Augusta Canal Authority may not use any Federal funds that it 
may receive pursuant to this title to acquire real property or an 
interest in real property.
SEC. 308. OCCUPATIONAL, SAFETY, CONSERVATION, AND 
                        ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to--
            (1) impose any occupational, safety, conservation, or 
        environmental regulation on the Heritage Area that is more 
        stringent than the regulations that would be applicable to the 
        Heritage Area but for the designation of the Heritage Area under 
        section 303; or

[[Page 110 STAT. 4252]]

            (2) authorize any Federal agency to promulgate an 
        occupational, safety, conservation, or environmental regulation 
        for the Heritage Area that is more stringent than the 
        regulations applicable to the Heritage Area in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this title, solely as a result of the 
        designation of the Heritage Area under section 303.

SEC. 309. LAND USE REGULATION.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to--
            (1) modify, enlarge, or diminish any authority of Federal, 
        State, and local governments to regulate any use of land as 
        provided for by law or regulation; or
            (2) grant powers of zoning or land use to the Augusta Canal 
        Authority.

SEC. 310. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any 
assistance under this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 311. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Heritage Area under 
this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of the Heritage Area, may not exceed 50 percent of 
the total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized under 
this title.

          <<NOTE: Steel Industry American Heritage Area Act of 
1996. Pennsylvania. 16 USC 461 note.>> TITLE IV--STEEL INDUSTRY HERITAGE 
PROJECT

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Steel Industry American 
Heritage Area Act of 1996''.

SEC. 402. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) the industrial and cultural heritage of southwestern 
        Pennsylvania, including the city of Pittsburgh, and the counties 
        of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Fayette, Greene, Washington, 
        and Westmoreland, related directly to steel and steel-related 
        industries, is nationally significant;
            (2) these industries include steelmaking, ironmaking, 
        aluminum, specialty metals, glass, coal mining, coke production, 
        machining and foundries, transportation, and electrical 
        industries;
            (3) the industrial and cultural heritage of the steel and 
        related industries in this region includes the social history 
        and living cultural traditions of the people of the region;
            (4) the labor movement of the region played a significant 
        role in the development of the Nation, including the formation 
        of many key unions such as the Congress of Industrial 
        Organizations (CIO) and the United Steel Workers of America 
        (USWA), and crucial struggles to improve wages and working 
        conditions, such as the Rail Strike of 1877, the Homestead 
        Strike of 1892, and the Great Steel Strike of 1919;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4253]]

            (5) the Department of the Interior is responsible for 
        protecting the Nation's cultural and historic resources, and 
        there are significant examples of these resources within this 
        seven-county region to merit the involvement of the Federal 
        Government to develop programs and projects, in cooperation with 
        the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation, the Commonwealth of 
        Pennsylvania, and other local and governmental 
        bodies, to adequately conserve, protect, and interpret this 
        heritage for future generations, while providing opportunities 
        for education and revitalization; and
            (6) the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation would be an 
        appropriate management entity for a Heritage Area established in 
        the region.

    (b) Statement of Purpose.--The objectives of the Steel 
Industry American Heritage Area are--
            (1) to foster a close working relationship with all levels 
        of government, the private sector, and the local communities in 
        the steel industry region of southwestern Pennsylvania and 
        empower the communities to conserve their heritage while 
        continuing to pursue economic opportunities; and
            (2) to conserve, interpret, and develop the historical, 
        cultural, natural, and recreational resources related to the 
        industrial and cultural heritage of the seven-county region of 
        southwestern Pennsylvania.

SEC. 403. STEEL INDUSTRY AMERICAN HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Steel Industry 
American Heritage Area (in this title referred to as the ``Heritage 
Area'').
    (b) Boundaries.--The Heritage Area shall be comprised of the 
counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Fayette, Greene, Washington, 
and Westmoreland in Pennsylvania.
    (c) Management Entity.--The management entity for the Heritage Area 
shall be the Steel Industry Heritage Corporation.

SEC. 404. COMPACT.

    (a) In General.--To carry out the purposes of this title, the 
Secretary of the Interior (in this title referred to as the 
``Secretary'') shall enter into a compact with the management entity. 
The 
compact shall include information relating to the objectives and 
management of the area, including the following:
            (1) A delineation of the boundaries of the proposed Heritage 
        Area.
            (2) A discussion of the goals and objectives of the proposed 
        Heritage Area, including an explanation of the proposed approach 
        to conservation and interpretation and a general outline of the 
        protection measures committed to by the partners referred to in 
        paragraph (4).
            (3) An identification and description of the management 
        entity that will administer the proposed Heritage Area.
            (4) A list of the initial partners to be involved in 
        developing and implementing the management plan for the proposed 

        Heritage Area, and a statement of the financial commitment of 
        the partners.
            (5) A description of the role of the Commonwealth of 
        Pennsylvania.

    (b) Additional Requirements.--The compact shall be prepared with 
public participation. Actions called for in the compact

[[Page 110 STAT. 4254]]

shall be likely to be initiated within a reasonable time after 
designation of the proposed Heritage Area and shall ensure effective 
implementation of the State and local aspects of the compact.

SEC. 405. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    The management entity shall develop a management plan for the 
Heritage Area that presents comprehensive recommendations for the 
Heritage Area's conservation, funding, management and development. Such 
plan shall take into consideration existing State, county, and local 
plans and involve residents, public agencies, and private organizations 
working in the Heritage Area. It shall include actions to be undertaken 
by units of government and private organizations to protect the 
resources of the Heritage Area. It shall specify the existing and 
potential sources of funding to protect, manage, and develop the 
Heritage Area. Such plan shall include, as appropriate, the following:
            (1) An inventory of the resources contained in the Heritage 
        Area, including a list of any property in the Heritage Area that 
        is related to the themes of the Heritage Area and that should be 
        preserved, restored, managed, developed, or maintained because 
        of its natural, cultural, historic, recreational, or scenic 
        significance.
            (2) A recommendation of policies for resource management 
        which considers and details application of appropriate land and 
        water management techniques, including but not limited to, the 
        development of intergovernmental cooperative agreements to 
        protect the Heritage Area's historical, cultural, 
        recreational, and natural resources in a manner consistent with 
        supporting appropriate and compatible economic viability.
            (3) A program for implementation of the management plan by 
        the management entity, including plans for restoration and 
        construction, and specific commitments of the identified 
        partners for the first 5 years of operation.
            (4) An analysis of ways in which local, State, and Federal 
        programs may best be coordinated to promote the purposes of the 
        title.
            (5) An interpretation plan for the Heritage Area.

SEC. 406. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Authorities of the Management Entity.--The management entity 
may, for purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan 
under section 405, use Federal funds made available through this title--
            (1) to make loans and grants to, and enter into cooperative 
        agreements with, States and their political subdivisions, 
        private organizations, or any person; and
            (2) to hire and compensate staff.

    (b) Duties of the Management Entity.--The management entity shall--
            (1) develop and submit to the Secretary for approval a 
        management plan as described in section 405 within 3 years after 
        the date of the enactment of this title;
            (2) give priority to implementing actions set forth in the 
        compact and the management plan, including taking steps to--
                    (A) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in preserving 
                the Heritage Area;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4255]]

                    (B) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in 
                establishing and maintaining interpretive exhibits in 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (C) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in developing 
                recreational resources in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in increasing 
                public awareness of and appreciation for the natural, 
                historical and architectural resources and sites in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (E) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations and nonprofit organizations in the 
                restoration of any historic building relating to the 
                themes of the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (F) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability in the Heritage Area consistent with the goals 
                of the plan;
                    (G) encourage local governments to adopt land use 
                policies consistent with the management of the Heritage 
                Area and the goals of the plan; and
                    (H) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations and nonprofit organizations to ensure that 
                clear, consistent, and environmentally appropriate signs 
                identifying access points and sites of interest are put 
                in place throughout the Heritage Area;
            (3) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and nonprofit groups within the Heritage Area;
        <<NOTE: Public information.>>     (4) conduct public meetings at 
        least quarterly regarding the implementation of the management 
        plan;
            (5) submit substantial changes (including any increase of 
        more than 20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) 
        to the management plan to the Secretary for the Secretary's 
        approval;
        <<NOTE: Reports.>>     (6) for any year in which Federal funds 
        have been received under this title, submit an annual report to 
        the Secretary setting forth its accomplishments, its expenses 
        and income, and the entity to which any loans and grants were 
        made during the year for which the report is made; and
        <<NOTE: Records.>>     (7) for any year in which Federal funds 
        have been received under this title, make available for audit 
        all records pertaining to the expenditure of such funds and any 
        matching funds, and require, for all agreements authorizing 
        expenditure of 
        Federal funds by other organizations, that the receiving 
        organizations make available for audit all records pertaining to 
        the expenditure of such funds.

If a management plan is not submitted to the Secretary as required under 
paragraph (1) within the specified time, the Heritage Area shall no 
longer qualify for Federal funding.
    (c) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.--The management 
entity may not use Federal funds received under this title to acquire 
real property or an interest in real property. Nothing in this title 
shall preclude any management entity from using Federal funds from other 
sources for their permitted purposes.

SEC. 407. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical and Financial Assistance.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4256]]

            (1) In general.--The Secretary may, upon request of the 
        management entity, provide technical and financial assistance to 
        the Heritage Area to develop and implement the management plan. 
        In assisting the Heritage Area, the Secretary shall give 
        priority to actions that in general assist in--
                    (A) conserving the significant natural, historic, 
                and cultural resources which support its themes; and
                     (B) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                recreational opportunities consistent with its resources 
                and associated values.
            (2) Spending for non-federally owned property.--The 
        Secretary may spend Federal funds directly on non-federally 
        owned property to further the purposes of this title, especially 
        in assisting units of government in appropriate treatment of 
        districts, sites, buildings, structures, and objects listed or 
        eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic 
        Places. The Historic American Building Survey/Historic American 
        Engineering Record shall conduct those studies necessary to 
        document the industrial, engineering, building, and 
        architectural history of the region.

    (b) Approval and Disapproval of Compacts and Management Plans.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Governor of Pennsylvania shall approve or disapprove a 
        compact or management plan submitted under this title not later 
        than 90 days after receiving such compact or management plan.
            (2) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
        disapproves a submitted compact or management plan, the 
        Secretary shall advise the management entity in writing of the 
        reasons therefor and shall make recommendations for revisions in 
        the compact or plan. The Secretary shall approve or disapprove a 
        proposed revision within 90 days after the date it is submitted.

    (c) Approving Amendments.--The Secretary shall review substantial 
amendments to the management plan for the Heritage Area. Funds 
appropriated pursuant to this title may not be expended to implement the 
changes made by such amendments until the Secretary approves the 
amendments.

SEC. 408. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 409. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Heritage Area under 
this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of this Heritage Area, may not exceed 50 percent 
of the total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized 
under this title.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4257]]

   <<NOTE: Massachusetts. 16 USC 461 note.>> TITLE V--ESSEX NATIONAL 
HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 501. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds that--
            (1) Essex County, Massachusetts, was host to a series of 
        historic events that influenced the course of the early 
        settlement of the United States; its emergence as a maritime 
        power; and its subsequent industrial development;
            (2) the North Shore of Essex County and the Merrimack River 
        valley in Essex County contain examples of significant early 
        American architecture and significant Federal-period 
        architecture, many sites and buildings associated with the 
        establishment of the maritime trade in the United States, the 
        site of the witchcraft trials of 1692, the birthplace of 
        successful iron manufacture, and the establishment of the 
        textile and leather industries in and around the cities of 
        Peabody, Beverly, Lynn, Lawrence, and Haverhill;
            (3) Salem, Massachusetts, has a rich heritage as one of the 
        earliest landing sites of the English colonists, the first major 
        world harbor for the United States, and an early thriving hub of 
        American industries;
            (4) the Saugus Iron Works National Historic Site is the site 
        of the first sustained, integrated iron works in Colonial 
        America, and the technology employed at the Iron Works was 
        dispersed throughout the Colonies and was critical to the 
        development of industry and technology in America;
            (5) the Salem Maritime National Historic Site contains 
        nationally significant resources that explain the manner in 
        which the Nation was settled, its evolution into a maritime 
        power, and its development as a major industrial force;
            (6) the story told at the Salem Maritime and Saugus Iron 
        Works National Historic Sites would be greatly enhanced through 
        the interpretation of significant theme-related resources in 
        Salem and Saugus and throughout Essex County;
            (7) partnerships between the private and public sectors have 
        been created and additional partnerships will be encouraged to 
        preserve the rich cultural heritage of the region, which will 
        stimulate cultural awareness, preservation, and economic 
        development through tourism;
            (8) a visitors' center that has already been constructed at 
        the Salem Maritime National Historic Site in Salem, 
        Massachusetts, will be available to interpret the themes of the 
        Essex National Heritage Area established by this title and to 
        coordinate the interpretive and preservation activities of the 
        Area; and
            (9) the resident and business communities of the region have 
        formed the Essex Heritage Ad Hoc Commission for the 
        preservation, interpretation, promotion, and development of the 
        historic, cultural, and natural resources of the region and are 
        investing significant private funds and energy to develop a plan 
        to preserve the nationally significant resources of Essex 
        County.

    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title--
            (1) to establish the Essex National Heritage Area to 
        recognize, preserve, promote, interpret, and make available for 
        the

[[Page 110 STAT. 4258]]

        benefit of the public the historic, cultural, and natural 
        resources of the North Shore and lower Merrimack River valley in 
        Essex County, Massachusetts, which encompass the three primary 
        themes of the Salem Maritime National Historic Site and Saugus 
        Iron Works National Historic Site (the histories of early 
        settlement, maritime trade, and the textile and leather 
        industries);
            (2) to implement the appropriate alternative as described in 
        the document entitled ``The Salem Project: A Study of 
        Alternatives'', dated January 1990, within the boundaries of 
        Essex County; and
            (3) to provide a management framework to assist the 
        Commonwealth of Massachusetts and its units of local 
        government in the development and implementation of an 
        integrated cultural, historical, and land resource management 
        program in order to retain, enhance, and interpret the 
        significant values of the lands, waters, and structures located 
        in the Essex National Heritage Area.

SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title:
            (1) The terms ``Area'' and ``National Heritage Area'' mean 
        the Essex National Heritage Area established by section 503.
            (2) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.

SEC. 503. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Designation.--For the purpose of preserving and interpreting, 
for the educational and inspirational benefit of present and future 
generations, the unique and significant contributions to our national 
heritage of certain historic and cultural lands, natural waterways, and 
structures within the County of Essex in the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, there is hereby established the Essex National Heritage 
Area.
    (b) Boundaries.--The Area shall comprise the lands generally 
depicted on the map numbered NAR-51-80,000 and dated August 1994. The 
map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the office 
of the Director of the National Park Service.
    (c) Administration.--The Area shall be administered in accordance 
with the provisions of this title.

SEC. 504. MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) In General.--The management entity for the National Heritage 
Area shall be an entity which is selected by the Essex Heritage Ad Hoc 
Commission or its designee, reflects a broad cross-section of interests 
within the Area, and includes--
            (1) at least 1 representative of one or more units of 
        government in each State in which the National Heritage Area is 
        located; and
            (2) private property owners who reside within the National 
        Heritage Area.

    (b) Duties.--The management entity for the Area shall fulfill each 
of the following requirements:
            (1) Heritage plan.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the designation of the Area as a
National Heritage Area, the management entity shall develop and forward 
to the 
Secretary, and to the Governor of Massachusetts, a heritage plan for the 
Area.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4259]]

            (2) Priorities.--The management entity shall give priority 
        to the implementation of action, goals, and policies set forth 
        in the compact and heritage plan for the Area, including 
        assisting units of government and others in--
                    (A) carrying out programs which recognize important 
                resource values within the Area;
                    (B) encouraging economic viability in the affected 
                communities;
                    (C) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Area;
                    (D) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Area;
                    (E) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the natural, historical, and cultural resources of 
                the Area;
                    (F) restoring historic buildings that are located 
                within the boundaries of the Area and relate to the 
                theme of the Area; and
                    (G) ensuring that clear, consistent, and appropriate 
                signs identifying public access points and sites of 
                interest are put in place throughout the Area.
            (3) Consideration of interests of local groups.--The 
        management entity shall, in developing and implementing the 
        heritage plan for the Area, consider the interests of diverse 
        units of government, businesses, private property owners, and 
        nonprofit groups within the geographic area.
        <<NOTE: Notice.>>     (4) Public meetings.--The management 
        entity shall 
        conduct public meetings at least annually regarding the 
        implementation of the heritage plan for the Area. The management 
        entity shall place a notice of each such meeting in a newspaper 
        of general circulation in the Area and shall make the minutes of 
        the meeting available to the public.

SEC. 505. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) In General.--To carry out the purpose of this title, the 
Secretary shall assist the management entity in preparing such studies 
and plans as the Secretary considers appropriate and in implementing the 
recommendations contained in a study report prepared by the management 
entity. The Secretary is authorized to enter into agreements with the 
Commission or with any owner of property with national historic or 
cultural significance within the Area for the purpose of facilitating 
public use and enjoyment of such resources or to otherwise further the 
objectives of the management entity. Any such agreement shall provide 
whenever appropriate that--
            (1) the public may have access to such resources at 
        specified, reasonable times for the purpose of viewing the 
        property or exhibits or attending programs or other activities, 
        as may be appropriate;
            (2) the Secretary may make improvements to such resources as 
        the management entity or the Secretary deem necessary to enhance 
        the public use and enjoyment of the resources, or to render such 
        property usable by the Secretary, the management entity, or any 
        person for the purpose of this title; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4260]]

            (3) the Secretary may occupy, utilize, and acquire 
        easements or leasehold interests in resources as required to 
        implement the programs and purpose of this title.

    (b) Technical Assistance and Grants.--The Secretary may provide, 
upon request, technical assistance and grants to the management entity 
to assist the management entity in the performance of its powers and 
functions as authorized under this title. The Secretary may provide to 
any owner of property within the Area, to the Commonwealth of 
Massachusetts, to the City of Salem and other participating 
municipalities, to any other Federal or State entity, to any 
institution, or to any person such technical assistance and grants as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the purpose of this 
title.

SEC. 506. PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    No privately owned property shall be included within the boundaries 
of the Area unless the government of the county, city, or town in which 
the property is located agrees to be so included and submits 
notification of such agreement to the Secretary.

SEC. 507. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 508. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Area under this title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of the Area, may not exceed 50 percent of the 
total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized under this 
title.

 <<NOTE: South Carolina National Heritage Corridor Act of 1996. 16 USC 
461 note.>> TITLE VI--SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``South Carolina National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1996''.

SEC. 602. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the South Carolina National Heritage Corridor, more than 
        250 miles in length, possesses a wide diversity of significant 
        rare plants, animals, and ecosystems, agricultural and timber 
        lands, shell-fish harvesting areas, historic sites and 
        structures, and cultural and multicultural landscapes related to 
        the past and current commerce, transportation, maritime, 
        textile, agricultural, mining, cattle, pottery, and national 
        defense industries of the region, which provide significant 
        ecological, natural, tourism, recreational, timber management, 
        educational, and economic benefits;
            (2) there is a national interest in protecting, conserving, 
        restoring, promoting, and interpreting the benefits of the 
        Corridor for the residents of, and visitors to, the Corridor 
        area;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4261]]

            (3) a primary responsibility for conserving, preserving, 
        protecting, and promoting the benefits resides with the State of 
        South Carolina and the units of local government having 
        jurisdiction over the Corridor area; and
            (4) in view of the longstanding Federal practice of 
        assisting States in creating, protecting, conserving, 
        preserving, and interpreting areas of significant natural and 
        cultural importance, and in view of the national significance of 
        the Corridor, the Federal Government has an interest in 
        assisting the State of South Carolina, the units of local 
        government of the State, and the private sector in fulfilling 
        the responsibilities described in paragraph (3).

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to protect, preserve, conserve, restore, promote, and 
        interpret the significant land and water resource values and 
        functions of the Corridor;
            (2) to encourage and support, through financial and 
        technical assistance, the State of South Carolina, the units of 
        local government of the State, and the private sector in the 
        development of a heritage plan for the Corridor to ensure 
        coordinated public and private action in the Corridor area in a 
        manner consistent with subsection (a);
            (3) to provide, during the development of an integrated 
        heritage plan, Federal financial and technical assistance for 
        the protection, preservation, and conservation of land and water 
        areas in the Corridor that are in danger of being adversely 
        affected or destroyed;
            (4) to encourage and assist the State of South Carolina and 
        the units of local government of the State to identify the full 
        range of public and private technical and financial assistance 
        programs and services available to implement the heritage plan;
            (5) to encourage adequate coordination of all government 
        programs affecting the land and water resources of the Corridor; 
        and
            (6) to develop a management framework with the State of 
        South Carolina and the units of local government of the State 
        for--
                    (A) planning and implementing the heritage plan; and
                    (B) developing policies and programs that will 
                preserve, conserve, protect, restore, enhance, and 
                interpret the 
                cultural, historical, natural, economic, recreational, 
                and scenic resources of the Corridor.

SEC. 603. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this title--
            (1) Corridor.--The term ``Corridor'' means the South 
        Carolina National Heritage Corridor established by section 604.
            (2) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the Governor of 
        the State of South Carolina.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 604. SOUTH CAROLINA NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State of South 
Carolina the South Carolina National Heritage Corridor.
    (b) Boundaries.--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4262]]

            (1) In general.--The boundaries of the Corridor are 
        generally the boundaries of the western counties of the State of 
        South Carolina, extending from the western Piedmont along the 
        Savannah Valley to Augusta, Georgia, along the route of the old 
        Southern Railroad, along the Ashley River to 
        Charleston.
            (2) Included counties.--The Corridor shall consist of the 
        following counties of South Carolina, in part or in whole, as 
        the heritage plan may specify on the recommendations of the 
        units of local government with the Corridor area:
                    (A) Oconee.
                    (B) Pickens.
                    (C) Anderson.
                    (D) Abbeville.
                    (E) Greenwood.
                    (F) McCormick.
                    (G) Edgefield.
                    (H) Aiken.
                    (I) Barnwell.
                    (J) Orangeburg.
                    (K) Bamberg.
                    (L) Dorchester.
                    (M) Colleton.
                    (N) Charleston.
            (3) Detail.--The boundaries shall be specified in detail in 
        the heritage plan.

SEC. 605. MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) In General.--The management entity for the National Heritage 
Corridor shall be an entity selected by the Governor of the State of 
South Carolina which reflects a broad cross-section of interests within 
the Corridor and which includes--
            (1) at least 1 representative of one or more units of 
        government in South Carolina; and
            (2) private property owners who reside within the National 
        Heritage Corridor.

    (b) Duties.--The management entity for the National Heritage 
Corridor shall fulfill each of the following requirements:
            (1) Heritage plan.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        the designation of the area as a National Heritage Corridor, the 
        management entity shall develop and forward to the 
        Secretary, and to the Governor of South Carolina, a heritage 
        plan.
            (2) Priorities.--The management entity shall give priority 
        to the implementation of actions, goals, and policies set forth 
        in the compact and heritage plan for the Corridor, including 
        assisting units of government and others in--
                    (A) carrying out programs which recognize important 
                resource values within the National Heritage Corridor;
                    (B) encouraging economic viability in the affected 
                communities;
                    (C) establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the Corridor;
                    (D) developing recreational and educational 
                opportunities in the Corridor;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4263]]

                    (E) increasing public awareness of and appreciation 
                for the natural, historical, and cultural resources of 
                the Corridor;
                    (F) restoring historic buildings that are located 
                within the boundaries of the Corridor and relate to the 
                theme of the Corridor; and
                    (G) ensuring that clear, consistent, and appropriate 
                signs identifying public access points and sites of 
                interest are put in place throughout the Corridor.
            (3) Consideration of interests of local groups.--The 
        management entity shall, in developing and implementing the 
        heritage plan for the Corridor, consider the interest of diverse 
        units of government, businesses, private property owners, and 
        nonprofit groups within the geographic area.
            (4) Public meetings.--The management entity shall 
        conduct public meetings at least annually regarding the 
        implementation of the heritage plan for 
        the <<NOTE: Notice.>> Corridor. The management entity shall 
        place a notice of each such meeting in a newspaper of general 
        circulation in the Corridor and shall make the minutes of the 
        meeting available to the public.

SEC. 606. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.

    (a) Assistance.--On request of the management entity, and subject to 
the availability of funds appropriated specifically for the purpose, or 
made available on a reimbursable basis, the 
Secretary shall provide administrative, technical, financial, 
development, and operations assistance for the purposes of this title. 
The assistance may include--
            (1) general administrative support in planning, finance, 
        personnel, procurement, property management, environmental and 
        historical compliance, and land acquisition;
            (2) personnel;
            (3) office space and equipment;
            (4) planning and design services for visitor use facilities, 
        trails, interpretive exhibits, publications, signs, and natural 
        resource management;
            (5) development and construction assistance, including 
        visitor use facilities, trails, river use and access facilities, 
        scenic byways, signs, waysides, and rehabilitation of historic 
        structures; and
            (6) operations functions, including interpretation and 
        visitor services, maintenance, and natural resource management 
        services conducted within the boundaries of the Corridor.

    (b) Loans, Grants, and Cooperative Agreements.--For the purposes of 
assisting in the development and implementation of the heritage plan, 
the Secretary may, in consultation with the management entity, make 
loans and grants to, and enter into cooperative agreements with, the 
State of South Carolina (or a political subdivision of the State), 
private nonprofit organizations, corporations, or other persons.
    (c) Approval of Heritage Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after receipt of 
        the plan submitted under section 605(b), the Secretary shall 
        approve or disapprove the plan.
            (2) Criteria.--In determining whether to approve a plan 
        under this title, the Secretary shall consider--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4264]]

                    (A) whether the plan has strong local support from a 
                diversity of landowners, business interests, nonprofit 
                organizations, and governments within the area;
                    (B) whether the plan is consistent with and 
                complements continued economic activity in the area;
                    (C) whether the plan has a high potential for 
                effective partnership mechanisms;
                    (D) whether the plan improperly infringes on private 
                property rights; and
                    (E) whether the plan will take appropriate action to 
                ensure private property rights are observed.
            (3) Disapproval.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary disapproves the 
                proposed heritage plan, the Secretary shall notify the 
                management entity.
                    (B) Contents.--A notification under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include--
                          (i) the reasons for the disapproval; and
                          (ii) recommendations for revision.
                    (C) Revised plan.--The management entity shall 
                revise and resubmit the heritage plan to the Secretary 
                for approval. Not later than 180 days after receipt of 
                the revised plan, the Secretary shall approve or 
                disapprove the plan as provided in paragraph (2). The 
                management entity shall revise and submit the heritage 
                plan until the heritage plan is approved by the 
                Secretary.

SEC. 607. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 608. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Corridor under this 
title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of this Corridor, may not exceed 50 percent of the 
total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized under this 
title.

   <<NOTE: Iowa. 16 USC 461 note.>> TITLE VII--AMERICA'S AGRICULTURAL 
HERITAGE PARTNERSHIP

SEC. 701. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) The Congress finds that--
            (1) the city of Waterloo, Iowa, and northeast Iowa posses 
        many important elements of the nationally significant story of 
        American agriculture, including Native American agriculture, 
        agricultural mechanization, seed hybridization, farm cooperative 
        movements, rural electrification, farm-to-market systems, rural 
        to urban migration, veterinary practice, food processing and 
        preservation, national farm organizations, international hunger 
        relief, and the development of national and international 
        agribusiness;

[[Page 110 STAT. 4265]]

            (2) these resources offer outstanding and unique 
        opportunities to acknowledge and appreciate the development of 
        American agriculture;
            (3) the National Park Service has determined that the story 
        of American agriculture is nationally significant, that 
        northeast Iowa is an ideal place to tell that story, and that 
        this story could be divided into 4 principal topics for 
        interpretation in northeast Iowa: the Amazing Science of 
        Agriculture, Agriculture as a Way of Life, Organizing for 
        Survival, and Crops from Field to Table;
            (4) the responsibility for interpreting, retaining, 
        enhancing, and promoting the resources, values, and amenities of 
        Waterloo, Iowa, and northeast Iowa resides with volunteer 
        associations, private businesses, political subdivisions of the 
        State, and the State of Iowa; and
            (5) despite the efforts by volunteer associations, private 
        businesses, political subdivisions of the State, and the State 
        of Iowa, the cultural and historical resources of the area have 
        not realized full potential and may be lost without some 
        assistance from the Federal Government.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to interpret, retain, enhance, and promote the unique 
        and significant contributions to national and international 
        agriculture of certain natural, historic, and cultural resources 
        within Waterloo, Iowa, and northeast Iowa;
            (2) to provide a partnership management framework to assist 
        volunteer associations, private businesses, political 
        subdivisions of the State, and the State of Iowa in developing 
        and implementing Management Plan policies and programs that will 
        assist in the interpretation, retention, enhancement, and 
        promotion of the cultural, natural, and recreational resources 
        of northeast Iowa;
            (3) to allow for local, State, and Federal contributions 
        through limited grants and technical assistance to create 
        America's Agricultural Heritage Partnership through cooperative 
        agreements among volunteer associations, private businesses, 
        political subdivisions of the State, the State of Iowa, and 
        residents of the area; and
            (4) to provide for an economically self-sustaining 
        Partnership for the educational and inspirational benefit of 
        current and future generations concerning the story of 
        American agriculture.

SEC. 702. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title:
            (1) Partnership.--The term ``Partnership'' means the 
        America's Agricultural Heritage Partnership as established by 
        section 703(a).
            (2) Management entity.--The term ``management entity'' means 
        the management entity as established by section 704(a).
            (3) Political subdivision.--The term ``political 
        subdivision'' means a political subdivision of the State of 
        Iowa, any part of which is located in or adjacent to the area in 
        which the Partnership's activities occur, including a county, 
        city, or town.
            (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Iowa.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4266]]

            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (6) Partnership management plan.--The term ``Partnership 
        Management Plan'' means the plan approved pursuant to section 
        705(a).
            (7) Activities.--The term ``activities'' means the 
        activities referred to in section 703(b).
SEC. 703. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AMERICA'S AGRICULTURAL HERITAGE 
                        PARTNERSHIP.

    (a) Establishment.--To carry out this title, there is established in 
the State of Iowa the ``America's Agricultural Heritage Partnership'' 
(in this title referred to as the ``Partnership''), upon publication by 
the Secretary in the Federal Register of notice that a Partnership 
Management Plan has been approved by the Secretary under this title.
    (b) Activities.--The Partnership's activities shall be limited to 
the counties of northeast Iowa that are generally depicted in 
``Alternatives #2 and #3'' described in the 1995 National Park 
Service ``Special Resource Study, Cedar Valley, Iowa.''.
    (c) Participation.--Nothing in this title shall require any 
resident located in the area in which the Partnership's activities occur 
to participate in or be associated with the Partnership or the 
Partnership's activities.
    (d) Affiliations.--Nothing in this title shall prohibit future 
affiliations or designations of the Partnership or Partnership 
Management Entity.
    (e) Grants, Technical Assistance, and Cooperative 
Agreements.--
            (1) Grants and technical assistance.--The Secretary may make 
        grants and provide technical assistance to America's 
        Agricultural Heritage Partnership to assist it in carrying out 
        its purposes.
            (2) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary is authorized to 
        enter into cooperative agreements with private entities, the 
        State of Iowa, any political subdivision thereof, and other 
        Federal entities, to further the purposes of this title, the 
        Partnership, or the Partnership Management Entity.
SEC. 704. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AMERICA'S AGRICULTURAL HERITAGE 
                        PARTNERSHIP MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a management entity for the 
Partnership based on the ``Management Option #5'' outlined in the 1995 
National Park Service ``Special Resource Study, Cedar Valley, Iowa'' and 
subject to the approval of the Secretary.
    (b) Partnership Management Plan.--The Partnership management entity 
shall be established in accordance with the Partnership Management Plan 
referred to in section 705(a).
    (c) Composition.--The members of the management entity may include 
persons affiliated with the following entities: the American Association 
of Museums, American Farm Bureau, American Farmland Trust, Effigy Mounds 
National Monument and Herbert Hoover National Historic Site, Iowa 
Department of Agriculture and Land Stewardship, Iowa Department of 
Corrections, Iowa Department of Cultural Affairs, Iowa Department of 
Economic Development, National Trust for Historic Preservation, the 
Smithsonian Institution, the State Historic Preservation Office of the 
State of Iowa, the United States Department of Agriculture, the United 
States

[[Page 110 STAT. 4267]]

Department of Transportation, and the America's Agricultural/Industrial 
Heritage Landscape, Inc.

SEC. 705. PARTNERSHIP MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    (a) Preparation of Partnership Management Plan.--A 
Partnership Management Plan shall be submitted to the Secretary for 
approval no later than three years after the date of the enactment of 
this title.
    (b) Assistance.--The Secretary may provide technical assistance in 
the preparation of the Partnership Management Plan.

SEC. 706. LAND USE REGULATION AND PRIVATE PROPERTY 
            PROTECTION.

    (a) Regulation.--Nothing in this title shall be construed to modify, 
enlarge, or diminish any authority of Federal, State, and local 
governments to regulate any use of privately owned land provided by law 
or regulation.
    (b) Land Use.--Nothing in this title shall be construed to grant the 
powers of zoning, land use, or condemnation to the 
Partnership Management Entity, the Secretary or any other 
Federal, State, or local government entity.

SEC. 707. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 708. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the Partnership under this 
title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of this Partnership, may not exceed 50 percent of 
the total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized under 
this title.

<<NOTE: Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor Act of 1996. 16 USC 
461 note.>> TITLE VIII--OHIO & ERIE CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage 
Corridor Act of 1996''.

SEC. 802. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Ohio & Erie Canal, which opened for commercial 
        navigation in 1832, was the first inland waterway to connect the 
        Great Lakes at Lake Erie with the Gulf of Mexico via the Ohio 
        and Mississippi Rivers and a part of a canal network in Ohio 
        that was one of America's most extensive and successful systems 
        during a period in history when canals were essential to the 
        Nation's growth.
            (2) The Ohio & Erie Canal spurred economic growth in the 
        State of Ohio that took the State from near bankruptcy to the 
        third most economically prosperous State in the Union in just 20 
        years.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4268]]

            (3) A 4-mile section of the Ohio & Erie Canal was 
        designated a National Historic Landmark in 1966 and other 
        portions of the Ohio & Erie Canal and many associated structures 
        were placed on the National Register of Historic Places.
            (4) In 1974, 19 miles of the Ohio & Erie Canal were declared 
        nationally significant under National Park Service new area 
        criteria with the designation of Cuyahoga Valley National 
        Recreation Area.
            (5) The National Park Service found the Ohio & Erie Canal 
        nationally significant in a 1975 study entitled ``Suitability/
        Feasibility Study, Proposed Ohio & Erie Canal''.
            (6) A 1993 Special Resources Study of the Ohio & Erie Canal 
        Corridor conducted by the National Park Service entitled ``A 
        Route to Prosperity'' has concluded that the corridor is 
        eligible as a National Heritage Corridor.
            (7) Local governments, the State of Ohio, and private sector 
        interests have embraced the heritage corridor concept and desire 
        to enter into partnership with the Federal Government to 
        preserve, protect, and develop the corridor for public benefit.

    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this title are--
            (1) to preserve and interpret for the educational and 
        inspirational benefit of present and future generations the 
        unique and significant contributions to our national heritage of 
        certain historic and cultural lands, waterways, and structures 
        within the 87-mile Ohio & Erie Canal Corridor between 
        Cleveland and Zoar;
            (2) to encourage within the corridor a broad range of 
        economic opportunities enhancing the quality of life for present 
        and future generations;
            (3) to provide a management framework to assist the State of 
        Ohio, its political subdivisions, and nonprofit organizations, 
        or combinations thereof, in preparing and implementing an 
        integrated Corridor Management Plan and in developing 
        policies and programs that will preserve, enhance, and interpret 
        the cultural, historical, natural, recreation, and scenic 
        resources of the corridor; and
            (4) to authorize the Secretary to provide financial and 
        technical assistance to the State of Ohio, its political 
        subdivisions, and nonprofit organizations, or combinations 
        thereof, in preparing and implementing a Corridor Management 
        Plan.

SEC. 803. DEFINITIONS.

    For the purposes of this title:
            (1) The term ``corridor'' means the Ohio & Erie Canal 
        National Heritage Corridor established by section 804.
            (2) The term ``Committee'' means the Ohio & Erie Canal 
        National Heritage Area Committee established by section 805.
            (3) The term ``Corridor Management Plan'' means the 
        management plan developed under section 808.
            (4) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
            (5) The term ``technical assistance'' means any guidance, 
        advice, help, or aid, other than financial assistance, provided 
        by the Secretary of the Interior.
            (6) The term ``financial assistance'' means funds 
        appropriated by Congress and made available to the management

[[Page 110 STAT. 4269]]

        entity for the purposes of preparing and implementing a 
        Corridor Management Plan.
            (7) The term ``management entity'' means the entity 
        recognized by the Secretary pursuant to section 807(a) to 
        receive, distribute, and account for Federal funds appropriated 
        for the purposes of this title.

SEC. 804. OHIO & ERIE CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State of Ohio the 
Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor.
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The boundaries of the corridor shall be 
        composed of the lands that are generally the route of the Ohio & 
        Erie Canal from Cleveland to Zoar, Ohio, as depicted in the 1993 
        National Park Service Special Resources Study, ``A Route to 
        Prosperity'', subject to paragraph (2). The specific boundaries 
        shall be those specified in the management plan submitted under 
        section 808. The Secretary shall prepare a map of the corridor 
        which shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
        the office of the Director of the National Park Service.
            (2) Consent of local governments.--No privately owned 
        property shall be included within the boundaries of the corridor 
        unless the municipality in which the property is located agrees 
        to be so included and submits notification of such agreement to 
        the Secretary.

    (c) Administration.--The corridor shall be administered in 
accordance with the provisions of this title.
SEC. 805. THE OHIO & ERIE CANAL NATIONAL HERITAGE CORRIDOR 
                        COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a Committee to be 
known as the ``Ohio & Erie Canal National Heritage Corridor Committee'', 
whose purpose shall be to assist Federal, State, and local authorities 
and the private sector in the preparation and implementation of an 
integrated Corridor Management Plan.
    (b) Membership.--The Committee shall be comprised of 21 members, as 
follows:
            (1) Four individuals, appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the Greater 
        Cleveland Growth Association, the Akron Regional Development 
        Board, the Stark Development Board, and the Tuscarawas County 
        Chamber of Commerce, who shall include one representative of 
        business and industry from each of Ohio counties of Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, Stark, and Tuscarawas.
            (2) One individuals, appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the Director of 
        the Ohio Department of Travel and Tourism, who is a director of 
        a convention and tourism bureau within the corridor.
            (3) One individual, appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the Ohio Historic 
        Preservation Officer, with knowledge and experience in the field 
        of historic preservation.
            (4) One individual, appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the Director of 
        the National Park Service, with knowledge and experience in the 
        field of historic preservation.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4270]]

            (5) Three individuals appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the county or 
        metropolitan park boards in the Ohio counties of Cuyahoga, 
        Summit, and Stark.
            (6) Eight individuals appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the county 
        commissioners or county chief executive of the Ohio counties of 
        Cuyahoga, Summit, Stark and Tuscarawas, including--
                    (A) from each county, one representative of the 
                planning offices of the county; and
                    (B) from each county, one representative of a 
                municipality in the county.
            (7) Two individuals appointed by the Secretary after 
        consideration of recommendations submitted by the Governor of 
        Ohio, who shall be representatives of the Directors of the Ohio 
        Department of Natural Resources and the Ohio Department of 
        Transportation.
            (8) The Superintendent of the Cuyahoga Valley National 
        Recreation Area, ex officio.

    (c) Appointments.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        members of the Committee shall be appointed for terms of three 
        years and may be reappointed.
            (2) Initial appointments.--The Secretary shall appoint the 
        initial members of the Committee within 30 days after the date 
        on which the Secretary has received all recommendations pursuant 
        to subsection (b). Of the members first appointed--
                    (A) the members appointed pursuant to subsection 
                (b)(6)(B) shall be appointed to a term of two years and 
                may not be reappointed to a consecutive term; and
                    (B) the member appointed pursuant to subsection 
                (b)(2) shall be appointed to a term of two years and may 
                not be reappointed to a consecutive term.

    (d) Chair and Vice Chair.--The chair and vice chair of the Committee 
shall be elected by the members of the Committee. The terms of the chair 
and vice chair shall be two years.
    (e) Vacancy.--A vacancy in the Committee shall be filled in the 
manner in which the original appointment was made. Any member appointed 
to fill a vacancy occurring before the expiration of the term for which 
their predecessor was appointed shall be appointed only for the 
remainder of such term. Any member of the Committee appointed for a 
definite term may serve after the expiration of their term until their 
successor has taken office.
    (f) Compensation and Expenses.--Members of the Committee shall serve 
without compensation for their service on the 
Committee.
    (g) Quorum.--Eleven members of the Committee shall 
constitute a quorum.
    (h) Meetings.--The Committee shall meet at least quarterly at the 
call of the chairperson or 11 of its members. Meetings of the Committee 
shall be subject to section 552b of title 5, United States Code 
(relating to open meetings).
    (i) Not Treated as Advisory Committee.--The Committee shall not be 
treated as an Advisory Committee for purposes of the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).

[[Page 110 STAT. 4271]]

SEC. 806. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE NATIONAL HERITAGE 
            CORRIDOR COMMITTEE.

    (a) Hearings.--The Committee may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this title, hold such hearings, sit and act at such times and places, 
take such testimony, and receive such evidence, as the Committee 
considers appropriate. The Committee may not issue subpoenas or exercise 
any subpoena authority.
    (b) Bylaws.--The Committee may make such bylaws and rules, 
consistent with this title, as it considers necessary to carry out its 
functions under this title.
    (c) Powers of Members and Agents.--Any member or agent of the 
Committee, if so authorized by the Committee, may take any action which 
the Committee is authorized to take by this title.
    (d) Corridor Management Plan.--Upon submission of a draft Corridor 
Management Plan to the Committee from the management entity, the 
Committee shall, within 60 days, review such plan for consistency with 
the purposes of this title and endorse the plan or return it to the 
management entity for revision. Upon endorsement of the Corridor 
Management Plan, the Committee shall submit such plan to the Secretary 
for approval pursuant to section 808.
    (e) Review of Budget.--The Committee shall review on an annual basis 
the proposed expenditures of Federal funds by the management entity for 
consistency with the purpose of this title and the Corridor Management 
Plan.

SEC. 807. MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Entity.--Upon petition, the Secretary is authorized to 
recognize the Ohio & Erie Canal Association as the management entity for 
the Heritage Corridor.
    (b) Eligibility.--To be eligible for designation as the 
management entity of the corridor, an entity must possess the legal 
ability to--
            (1) receive Federal funds for use in preparing and 
        implementing the management plan for the corridor;
            (2) disburse Federal funds to other units of government or 
        other organizations for use in preparing and implementing the 
        management plan for the corridor;
            (3) account for all Federal funds received or disbursed; and
            (4) sign agreements with the Federal Government.

    (c) Federal Funding.--
            (1) Authorization to receive.--The management entity is 
        authorized to receive appropriated Federal funds.
            (2) Disqualification.--If a management plan for the 
        corridor is not submitted to the Secretary as required under 
        section 808 within the time specified herein, the management 
        entity shall cease to be eligible for Federal funding under this 
        title until such a plan regarding the corridor is submitted to 
        the Secretary.

    (d) Authorities of Management Entity.--The management entity of the 
corridor may, for purposes of preparing and implementing the management 
plan for the corridor, use Federal funds made available under this 
title--

[[Page 110 STAT. 4272]]

            (1) to make grants and loans to the State of Ohio, its 
        political subdivisions, nonprofit organizations, and other 
        persons;
            (2) to enter into cooperative agreements with, or provide 
        technical assistance to, Federal agencies, the State of Ohio, 
        its political subdivision, nonprofit organizations, and other 
        persons;
            (3) to hire and compensate staff;
            (4) to obtain money from any source under any program or law 
        requiring the recipient of such money to make a contribution in 
        order to receive such money; and
            (5) to contract for goods and services.

    (e) Prohibition of Acquisition of Real Property.--The management 
entity for the corridor may not use Federal funds received under this 
title to acquire real property or any interest in real property.

SEC. 808. DUTIES OF THE MANAGEMENT ENTITY.

    (a) Corridor Management Plan.--
            (1) Submission for review by committee.--Within 3 years 
        after the date on which the Secretary has recognized the 
        management entity for the corridor, the management entity shall 
        develop and submit for review to the Committee a management plan 
        for the corridor.
            (2) Plan requirements.--A management plan submitted under 
        this title shall present comprehensive recommendations for the 
        conservation, funding, management, and development of the 
        corridor. The plan shall be prepared with public participation. 
        The plan shall take into consideration existing Federal, State, 
        county, and local plans and involve residents, public agencies, 
        and private organizations in the corridor. The plan shall 
        include a description of actions that units of government and 
        private organizations are recommended to take to protect the 
        resources of the corridor. The plan shall specify existing and 
        potential sources of funding for the conservation, management, 
        and development of the corridor. The plan also shall include the 
        following, as appropriate:
                    (A) An inventory of the resources contained in the 
                corridor, including a list of property in the corridor 
                that should be conserved, restored, managed, developed, 
                or maintained because of the natural, cultural, or 
                historic significance of the property as it relates to 
                the themes of the corridor.
                    (B) A recommendation of policies for resource 
                management that consider and detail the application of 
                appropriate land and water management techniques, 
                including (but not limited to) the development of 
                intergovernmental cooperative agreements to manage the 
                historical, cultural, and natural resources and 
                recreational opportunities of the corridor in a manner 
                consistent with the support of appropriate and 
                compatible economic viability.
                    (C) A program, including plans for restoration and 
                construction, for implementation of the management plan 
                by the management entity and specific commitments, for 
                the first six years of operation of the plan by the 
                partners identified in said plan.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4273]]

                    (D) An analysis of means by which Federal, State, 
                and local programs may best be coordinated to promote 
                the purposes of this title.
                    (E) An interpretive plan for the corridor.
            (3) Approval and disapproval of the corridor 
        management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--Upon submission of the Corridor 
                Management Plan from the Committee. the Secretary shall 
                approve or disapprove said plan not later than 60 days 
                after receipt of the plan. If the Secretary has taken no 
                action after 60 days upon receipt, the plan shall be 
                considered approved.
                    (B) Disapproval and revisions.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves the Corridor Management Plan, the Secretary 
                shall advise the Committee, in writing, of the reasons 
                for the disapproval and shall make recommendations for 
                revision of the plan. The Secretary shall approve or 
                disapprove proposed revisions to the plan not later than 
                60 days after receipt of such revision. If the Secretary 
                has taken no action for 60 days after receipt, the plan 
                shall be considered approved.

    (b) Priorities.--The management entity shall give priority to the 
implementation of actions, goals, and policies set forth in the 
management plan for the corridor, including--
            (1) assisting units of government, regional planning 
        organizations, and nonprofit organizations--
                    (A) in conserving the corridor;
                    (B) in establishing and maintaining interpretive 
                exhibits in the corridor;
                    (C) in developing recreational opportunities in the 
                corridor;
                    (D) in increasing public awareness of and 
                appreciation for the natural, historical, and cultural 
                resources of the corridor;
                    (E) in the restoration of historic buildings that 
                are located within the boundaries of the corridor and 
                relate to the themes of the corridor; and
                    (F) in ensuring that clear, consistent, and 
                environmentally appropriate signs identifying access 
                points and sites of interest are put in place throughout 
                the corridor; and
            (2) consistent with the goals of the management plan, 
        encouraging economic viability in the affected communities by 
        appropriate means.

    (c) Consideration of Interests of Local Groups.--The management 
entity shall, in preparing and implementing the management plan for the 
corridor, consider the interest of diverse units of government, 
businesses, private property owners, and nonprofit groups within the 
geographic area.
    (d) Public Meetings.--The management entity shall conduct public 
meetings at least quarterly regarding the implementation of the Corridor 
Management Plan.
    (e) Annual Reports.--The management entity shall, for any fiscal 
year in which it receives Federal funds under this title or in which a 
loan made by the entity with Federal funds under section 807(d)(1) is 
outstanding, submit an annual report to the Secretary setting forth its 
accomplishments, its expenses and

[[Page 110 STAT. 4274]]

income, and the entities to which it made any loans and grants during 
the year for which the report is made.
    (f) Cooperation With Audits.--The management entity shall, for any 
fiscal year in which its receives Federal funds under this title or in 
which a loan made by the entity with Federal funds under section 
807(d)(1) is outstanding, make available for audit by the Congress, the 
Secretary, and appropriate units of government all records and other 
information pertaining to the expenditure of such funds and any matching 
funds, and require, for all agreements authorizing expenditure of 
Federal funds by other organizations, that the receiving organizations 
make available for such audit all records and other information 
pertaining to the expenditure of such funds.

SEC. 809. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Technical Assistance and Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may provide technical 
        assistance and grants to units of government, nonprofit 
        organizations, and other persons, upon request of the management 
        entity of the corridor, and to the management entity, regarding 
        the management plan and its implementation.
            (2) Prohibition of certain requirements.--The 
        Secretary may not, as a condition of the award of technical 
        assistance or grants under this section, require any recipient 
        of such technical assistance or grant to enact or modify land 
        use restrictions.
            (3) Determinations regarding assistance.--The 
        Secretary shall decide if the corridor shall be awarded 
        technical assistance or grants and the amount of that 
        assistance. Such decisions shall be based on the relative degree 
        to which the corridor effectively fulfills the objectives 
        contained in the 
        Corridor Management Plan and achieves the purposes of this 
        title. Such decisions shall give consideration to projects which 
        provide a greater leverage of Federal funds.

    (b) Provision of Information.--In cooperation with other 
Federal agencies, the Secretary shall provide the general public with 
information regarding the location and character of the 
corridor.
    (c) Other Assistance.--Upon request, the Superintendent of Cuyahoga 
Valley National Recreation Area may provide to public and private 
organizations within the corridor (including the management entity for 
the corridor) such operational assistance as appropriate to support the 
implementation of the Corridor Management Plan, subject to the 
availability of appropriated funds. The Secretary is authorized to enter 
into cooperative agreements with public and private organizations for 
the purposes of implementing this subsection.
    (d) Duties of Other Federal Agencies.--Any Federal entity conducting 
any activity directly affecting the corridor shall consider the 
potential effect of the activity on the Corridor Management Plan and 
shall consult with the management entity of the corridor with respect to 
the activity to minimize the adverse effects of the activity on the 
corridor.

SEC. 810. LACK OF EFFECT ON LAND USE REGULATION AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.

    (a) Lack of Effect on Authority of Governments.--Nothing in this 
title shall be construed to modify, enlarge, or diminish

[[Page 110 STAT. 4275]]

any authority of Federal, State, or local governments to regulate any 
use of land as provided for by law or regulation.
    (b) Lack of Zoning or Land Use Powers.--Nothing in this title shall 
be construed to grant powers of zoning or land use control to the 
Committee or management entity of the corridor.

    (c) Local Authority and Private Property Not Affected.--Nothing in 
this title shall be construed to affect or to authorize the Committee to 
interfere with--
            (1) the rights of any person with respect to private 
        property; or
            (2) any local zoning ordinance or land use plan of the State 
        of Ohio or a political subdivision thereof.

SEC. 811. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any assistance under 
this title after September 30, 2012.

SEC. 812. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There is authorized to be appropriated under this 
title not more than $1,000,000 for any fiscal year. Not more than a 
total of $10,000,000 may be appropriated for the corridor under this 
title.
    (b) 50 Percent Match.--Federal funding provided under this title, 
after the designation of this corridor, may not exceed 50 percent of the 
total cost of any assistance or grant provided or authorized under this 
title.

 <<NOTE: Hudson River Valley National Heritage Area Act of 1996. 16 USC 
461 note.>> TITLE IX--HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Hudson River Valley National 
Heritage Area Act of 1996''.

SEC. 902. FINDINGS.

    The Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Hudson River Valley between Yonkers, New York, and 
        Troy, New York, possesses important historical, cultural, and 
        natural resources, representing themes of settlement and 
        migration, transportation, and commerce.
            (2) The Hudson River Valley played an important role in the 
        military history of the American Revolution.
        <<NOTE: Andrew Jackson Downing. Alexander Jackson Davis. Thomas 
        Cole.>>     (3) The Hudson River Valley gave birth to important 
        movements in American art and architecture through the work of 
        Andrew Jackson Downing, Alexander Jackson Davis, Thomas Cole, 
        and their associates, and played a central role in the 
        recognition of the esthetic value of the landscape and the 
        development of an American esthetic ideal.
            (4) The Hudson River Valley played an important role in the 
        development of the iron, textile, and collar and cuff industries 
        in the 19th century, exemplified in surviving structures such as 
        the Harmony Mills complex at Cohoes, and in the development of 
        early men's and women's labor and cooperative organizations, and 
        is the home of the first women's labor union and the first 
        women's secondary school.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4276]]

            (5) The Hudson River Valley, in its cities and towns and in 
        its rural landscapes--
                    (A) displays exceptional surviving physical 
                resources illustrating these themes and the social, 
                industrial, and cultural history of the 19th and early 
                20th centuries; and
                    (B) includes many National Historic Sites and 
                Landmarks.
            (6) The Hudson River Valley is the home of traditions 
        associated with Dutch and Huguenot settlements dating to the 
        17th and 18th centuries, was the locus of characteristic 
        American stories such as ``Rip Van Winkle'' and the ``Legend of 
        Sleepy Hollow'', and retains physical, social, and cultural 
        evidence of these traditions and the traditions of other more 
        recent ethnic and social groups.
            (7) New York State has established a structure for the 
        Hudson River Valley communities to join together to preserve, 
        conserve, and manage these resources, and to link them through 
        trails and other means, in the Hudson River Greenway Communities 
        Council and the Greenway Conservancy.

SEC. 903. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are the following:
            (1) To recognize the importance of the history and the 
        resources of the Hudson River Valley to the Nation.
            (2) To assist the State of New York and the communities of 
        the Hudson River Valley in preserving, protecting, and 
        interpreting these resources for the benefit of the Nation.
            (3) To authorize Federal financial and technical assistance 
        to serve these purposes.

SEC. 904. HUDSON RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HERITAGE AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a Hudson River 
Valley National Heritage Area (in this title referred to as the 
``Heritage Area'').
    (b) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
        (2), the Heritage Area shall be comprised of the counties of 
        Albany, Rensselaer, Columbia, Greene, Ulster, Dutchess, Orange, 
        Putnam,
Westchester, and Rockland, New York, and the Village of Waterford in 
Saratoga County, New York.
            (2) Areas excluded.--The Heritage Area shall not include any 
        of the following:
                    (A) The counties of Greene and Columbia.
                    (B) Those portions of the counties of Rensselaer and 
                Dutchess located entirely within the 22d Congressional 
                District of New York (as such district exists on the 
                date of the enactment of this Act).

    (c) Management Entities.--The management entities for the Heritage 
Area shall be the Hudson River Valley Greenway Communities Council and 
the Greenway Conservancy (agencies established by the State of New York 
in its Hudson River Greenway Act of 1991, in this title referred to as 
the ``management entities''). The management entities shall jointly 
establish a Heritage Area Committee to manage the Heritage Area.

SEC. 905. COMPACT.

    To carry out the purposes of this title, the Secretary of the 
Interior (in this title referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall enter

[[Page 110 STAT. 4277]]

into a compact with the management entities. The compact shall include 
information relating to the objectives and management of the area, 
including the following:
            (1) A discussion of the goals and objectives of the Heritage 
        Area, including an explanation of a proposed approach to 
        conservation and interpretation, and a general outline of the 
        protection measures committed to by the parties to the compact.
            (2) A description of the respective roles of the management 
        entities.
            (3) A list of the initial partners to be involved in 
        developing and implementing a management plan for the Heritage 
        Area, and a statement of the financial commitment of such 
        partners.
            (4) A description of the role of the State of New York.

SEC. 906. MANAGEMENT PLAN.

    The management entities shall develop a management plan for the 
Heritage Area that presents comprehensive recommendations for the 
Heritage Area's conservation, funding, management and development. Such 
plan shall take into consideration existing State, county, and local 
plans and involve residents, public agencies, and private organizations 
working in the Heritage Area. It shall include actions to be undertaken 
by units of government and private organizations to protect the 
resources of the Heritage Area. It shall specify the existing and 
potential sources of funding to protect, manage, and develop the 
Heritage Area. Such plan shall include specifically as appropriate the 
following:
            (1) An inventory of the resources contained in the Heritage 
        Area, including a list of any property in the Heritage Area that 
        is related to the themes of the Heritage Area and that should be 
        preserved, restored, managed, developed, or maintained because 
        of its natural, cultural, historic, recreational, or scenic 
        significance.
            (2) A recommendation of policies of resource management 
        which consider and detail application of appropriate land and 
        water management techniques, including but not limited to, the 
        development of intergovernmental cooperative agreements to 
        protect the Heritage Area's historical, cultural, recreational, 
        and natural resources in a manner consistent with supporting 
        appropriate and compatible economic viability.
            (3) A program for implementation of the management plan by 
        the management entities, including plans for restoration and 
        construction, and specific commitments of the identified 
        partners for the first 5 years of operation.
            (4) An analysis of ways in which local, State, and Federal 
        programs may best be coordinated to promote the purposes of this 
        title.
            (5) An interpretation plan for the Heritage Area.

SEC. 907. AUTHORITIES AND DUTIES OF MANAGEMENT ENTITIES.

    (a) Authorities of the Management Entities.--The management entities 
may, for purposes of preparing and implementing the management plan 
under section 906, use Federal funds made available through this title--
          (1) to make loans and grants to, and enter into cooperative 
        agreements with, States and their political subdivisions, 
        private organizations, or any person; and
          (2) to hire and compensate staff.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4278]]

    (b) Duties of the Management Entities.--The management entities 
shall--
            (1) develop and submit to the Secretary for approval a 
        management plan as described in section 906 within 5 years after 
        the date of the enactment of this title.
            (2) give priority to implementing actions as set forth in 
        the compact and the management plan, including taking 
        steps to--
                    (A) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in preserving 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (B) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in 
                establishing, and maintaining interpretive exhibits in 
                the Heritage Area;
                    (C) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in developing 
                recreational resources in the Heritage Area;
                    (D) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations, and nonprofit organizations in increasing 
                public awareness of an appreciation for the natural, 
                historical and architectural resources and sites in the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (E) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations and nonprofit organizations in the 
                restoration of any historic building relating to the 
                themes of the 
                Heritage Area;
                    (F) encourage by appropriate means economic 
                viability in the corridor consistent with the goals of 
                the plan;
                    (G) encourage local governments to adopt land use 
                policies consistent with the management of the Heritage 
                Area and the goals of the plan; and
                    (H) assist units of government, regional planning 
                organizations and nonprofit organizations to ensure that 
                clear, consistent, and environmentally appropriate signs 
                identifying access points and sites of interest are put 
                in place throughout the Heritage Area;
            (3) consider the interests of diverse governmental, 
        business, and nonprofit groups within the Heritage Area;
        <<NOTE: Public information.>>     (4) conduct public meetings at 
        least quarterly regarding the implementation of the management 
        plan;
            (5) submit substantial changes (including any increase of 
        more than 20 percent in the cost estimates for implementation) 
        to the management plan to the Secretary for the Secretary's 
        approval;
        <<NOTE: Reports.>>     (6) for any year in which Federal funds 
        have been received under this title, submit an annual report to 
        the Secretary setting forth its accomplishments, its expenses 
        and income, and the entities to which any loans and grants were 
        made during the year for which the report is made; and
        <<NOTE: Records.>>     (7) for any year in which Federal funds 
        have been received under this title, make available for audit 
        all records pertaining to the expenditure of such funds and any 
        matching funds, and require, for all agreements authorizing 
        expenditure of 
        Federal funds by other organizations, that the receiving 
        organizations make available for audit all records pertaining to 
        the expenditure of such funds.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4279]]

If a management plan is not submitted to the Secretary as required under 
paragraph (1) within the specified time, the Heritage Area shall no 
longer qualify for Federal funding.
    (c) Prohibition on the Acquisition of Real Property.-- The 
management entities may not use Federal funds received under this title 
to acquire real property
or an interest in real property. Nothing in this title shall preclude 
any management entity from using Federal funds from other sources for 
their permitted purposes.

    (d) Eligibility for Receiving Financial Assistance.--
            (1) Eligibility.--The management entities shall be eligible 
        to receive funds appropriated through this title for a period of 
        10 years after the day on which the compact under section 905 is 
        signed by the Secretary and the management entities, except as 
        provided in paragraph (2).
            (2) Exception.--The management entities' eligibility for 
        funding under this title may be extended for a period of not 
        more than 5 additional years if--
                <<NOTE: Notification.>>     (A) the management entities 
                determine such extension is necessary in order to carry 
                out the purposes of this title and notify the Secretary 
                not later than 180 days prior to the termination date;
                    (B) the management entities, not later than 180 days 
                prior to the termination date, present to the Secretary 
                a plan of their activities for the period of the 
                extension, including provisions for becoming independent 
                of the funds made available through this title; and
                    (C) the Secretary, with the advice of the Governor 
                of New York, approves such extension of funding.

SEC. 908. DUTIES AND AUTHORITIES OF FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Duties and Authorities of the Secretary.--
            (1) Technical and financial assistance.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may, upon request of 
                the management entities, provide technical and financial 
                assistance to the Heritage Area to develop and implement 
                the management plan. In assisting the Heritage Area, the 
                Secretary shall give priority to actions that in general 
                assist in--
                          (i) conserving the significant natural 
                      historic, and cultural resources which support its 
                      themes; and
                          (ii) providing educational, interpretive, and 
                      recreational opportunities consistent with its 
                      resources and associated values.
                    (B) Spending for non-federally owned property.--The 
                Secretary may spend Federal funds directly on 
                nonfederally owned property to further the purposes of 
                this title, especially in assisting units of government 
                in appropriate treatment of districts, sites, buildings, 
                structures, and objects listed or eligible for listing 
                on the National Register of Historic Places.
            (2) Approval and disapproval of compacts and 
        management plans.--
                    (A)  In general.--The Secretary, in consultation 
                with the Governor of New York, shall approve or 
                disapprove a compact or management plan submitted under 
                this title not later than 90 days after receiving such 
                compact or management plan.

[[Page 110 STAT. 4280]]

                    (B) Action following disapproval.--If the Secretary 
                disapproves a submitted compact or management plan, the 
                Secretary shall advise the management entities in 
                writing of the reasons therefor and shall make 
                recommendations for revisions in the compact or plan. 
                The Secretary shall approve or disapprove a proposed 
                revision within 90 days after the date it is submitted.
            (3) Approving amendments.--The Secretary shall review 
        substantial amendments to the management plan for the Heritage 
        Area. Funds appropriated pursuant to this title may not be 
        expended to implement the changes until the Secretary approves 
        the amendments.
            (4) Promulgating regulations.--The Secretary shall 
        promulgate such regulations as are necessary to carry out the 
        purposes of this title.

    (b) Duties of Federal Entities.--Any Federal entity conducting or 
supporting activities directly affecting the Heritage Area, and any unit 
of government acting pursuant to a grant of Federal funds or a Federal 
permit or agreement conducting or supporting such activities, shall to 
the maximum extent practicable--
            (1) consult with the Secretary and the management entities 
        with respect to such activities;
            (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the management 
        entities in carrying out their duties under this title and 
        coordinate such activities with the carrying out of such duties; 
        and
            (3) conduct or support such activities in a manner 
        consistent with the management plan unless the Federal entity, 
        after consultation with the management entities, determines 
        there is no practicable alternative.

SEC. 909. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Compacts and Management Plan.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary, for grants for developing a compact under 
section 905 and providing assistance for a management plan under section 
906, not more than $300,000, to remain available until expended, subject 
to the following conditions:
            (1) No grant for a compact or management plan may exceed 75 
        percent of the grantee's cost for such study or plan.
            (2) The total amount of Federal funding for the compact for 
        the Heritage Area may not exceed $150,000.
            (3) The total amount of Federal funding for a management 
        plan for the Heritage Area may not exceed $150,000.

    (b) Management Entity Operations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for the management entities, amounts as 
follows:
            (1) For the operating costs of each management entity, 
        pursuant to section 907, not more than $250,000 annually.
            (2) For technical assistance pursuant to section 908, not 
        more than $50,000 annually.

The Federal contribution to the operations of the management entities 
shall not exceed 50 percent of the annual operating costs of the 
entities.
    (c) Implementation.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary, for grants (and the administration thereof) for the 
implementation of the management plans for the Heritage Area pursuant to 
section 908, not more than $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended, subject to the following conditions:

[[Page 110 STAT. 4281]]

            (1) No grant for implementation may exceed 50 percent of the 
        grantee's cost of implementation.
            (2) Any payment made shall be subject to an agreement that 
        conversion, use, or disposal of the project so assisted for 
        purposes contrary to the purposes of this title, as determined 
        by the Secretary, shall result in a right of the United States 
        of reimbursement of all funds made available to such project or 
        the proportion of the increased value of the project 
        attributable to such funds as determined at the time of such 
        conversion, use, or disposal, whichever is greater.

SEC. 910. SUNSET.

    The Secretary may not make any grant or provide any 
assistance under this title after September 30, 2012.

    Approved November 12, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4236:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Sept. 28, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 3, considered and passed Senate.
WEEKLY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS, Vol. 32 (1996):
            Nov. 12, Presidential remarks and statement.

                                  <all>