[104th Congress Public Law 165]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ165.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 1443]]

Public Law 104-165
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to convey lands to the city of 
        Rolla, Missouri. <<NOTE:  July 24, 1996 -  [H.R. 701]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. LAND CONVEYANCE, ROLLA RANGER DISTRICT ADMINISTRATIVE SITE, 
            ROLLA, MISSOURI.

    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--Subject to the terms and conditions 
specified in this section, the Secretary of Agriculture may sell to the 
city of Rolla, Missouri (in this section referred to as the ``City''), 
all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
following:
            The property identified as the Rolla Ranger District 
        Administrative Site of the Forest Service located in Rolla, 
        Phelps County, Missouri, encompassing ten acres more or less, 
        the conveyance of which by C.D. and Oma A. Hazlewood to the 
        United States was recorded on May 6, 1936, in book 104, page 286 
        of the Record of Deeds of Phelps County, Missouri.

    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the City shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to 
the fair market value of the property as determined by an appraisal 
acceptable to the Secretary and prepared in accordance with the Uniform 
Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisition as published by the 
Department of Justice. Payment shall be due in full within six months 
after the date the conveyance is made, or, at the option of the City, in 
twenty equal annual installments commencing on January 1 of the first 
year following the conveyance and annually thereafter until the total 
amount due has been paid.
    (c) Deposit of Funds Received.--Funds received by the Secretary 
under subsection (b) as consideration for the conveyance shall be 
deposited into the special fund in the Treasury authorized by the Act of 
December 4, 1967 (16 U.S.C. 484a, commonly known as the Sisk Act). Such 
funds shall be available, subject to appropriation, until expended by 
the Secretary.
    (d) Release.--Subject to compliance with all Federal environmental 
laws prior to transfer, the City, upon conveyance of the property under 
subsection (a), shall agree in writing to hold the United States 
harmless from any and all claims relating to the property including all 
claims resulting from hazardous materials on the conveyed lands.
    (e) Right of Reentry.--The conveyance to the City under subsection 
(a) shall be made by quitclaim deed in fee simple, subject to a right of 
reentry in the United States if the Secretary determines that the City 
is not in compliance with the compensation require

[[Page 110 STAT. 1444]]

ments specified in subsection (b) or other condition prescribed by the 
Secretary in the deed of conveyance.
    (f) Conservation of Historic Resources.--In consultation with the 
State Historic Preservation Office of the State of Missouri, the 
Secretary shall ensure that the historic resources on the property to be 
conveyed are conserved by requiring, at the closing on the conveyance of 
the property, that the City convey an historic preservation easement to 
the State of Missouri assuring the right of the State to enter the 
property for historic preservation purposes. The historic preservation 
easement shall be negotiated between the State of Missouri and the City, 
and the conveyance of the easement shall be a condition to the 
conveyance authorized under subsection (a). The protection of the 
historic resources on the conveyed property shall be the responsibility 
of the State of Missouri and the City, and not that of the Secretary.

    Approved July 24, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 701:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 104-215 (Comm. on Agriculture).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 141 (1995):
                                    July 31, considered and passed 
                                        House.
                                                        Vol. 142 (1996):
                                    July 9, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>