[104th Congress Private Law 3]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:pvtl0003.104]


[[Page 1]]

Private Law 104-3
104th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Oscar Salas-Velazquez. <<NOTE:  Oct. 9, 1996 -  [H.R. 
                                1031]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. WAIVER OF GROUNDS FOR DISAPPROVAL OF REQUESTS FOR 
            CLASSIFICATION AND ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Jennifer Christine Brady.>> In General.--Notwithstanding 
section 204(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the Attorney 
General may not disapprove a petition for classification of Oscar Salas-
Velazquez under section 201(b)(2)(A)(i) of such Act, or an application 
for adjustment of the status of Oscar Salas-Velazquez under section 245 
of such Act, on any ground relating to a determination that the marriage 
of Oscar Salas-Velazquez and Jennifer Christine Brady was entered into 
for the purpose of evading the immigration laws.

    (b) Waiver of Inadmissibility.--Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A), 
(B), and (C) of section 212(a)(6) of the Immigration and Nationality 
Act, Oscar Salas-Velazquez may not be considered to be within a class of 
excludable aliens at any time on or after the date of the enactment of 
this Act on any ground relating to--
            (1) a determination that the marriage of Oscar Salas-
        Velazquez and Jennifer Christine Brady was entered into for the 
        purpose of evading the immigration laws; or
            (2) the deportation of Oscar Salas-Velazquez on February 9, 
        1995.

    (c) Denial of Preferential Immigration Treatment for Certain 
Relatives.--The natural parents, brothers, and sisters of Oscar Salas-
Velazquez shall not, by virtue of such relationship, be accorded any 
right, privilege, or status under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Number.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Oscar Salas-Velazquez, the 
Secretary of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, for 
the current or next following fiscal year, the worldwide level of 
family-sponsored immigrants under section 201(c)(1)(A) of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act.

  Approved October 9, 1996.