[104th Congress Public Law 282]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


<DOC>
[DOCID: f:publ282.104]


[[Page 110 STAT. 3361]]

Public Law 104-282
104th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
   To commend Operation Sail for its advancement of brotherhood among 
   nations, its continuing commemoration of the history of the United 
     States, and its nurturing of young cadets through training in 
          seamanship. <<NOTE: Oct. 9, 1996 -  [S.J. Res. 64]>> 

Whereas Operation Sail is a nonprofit corporation dedicated to building 
    good will among nations and encouraging international camaraderie;

Whereas Operation Sail has represented and promoted the United States of 
    America in the international tall ship community since 1964, 
    organizing and participating in numerous tall ship events across the 
    United States and around the world;

Whereas Operation Sail has worked in partnership with every American 
    President since President John F. Kennedy;

Whereas Operation Sail has established a great tradition of celebrating 
    major events and milestones in United States history with a 
    gathering of the world's tall ships, and will continue this great 
    tradition with a gathering of ships in New York Harbor, called 
    OpSail 2000, to celebrate the 224th birthday of the United States of 
    America and to welcome the new millennium;

Whereas President Clinton has endorsed OpSail 2000, as Presidents 
    Kennedy, Carter, Reagan, and Bush have endorsed Operation Sail in 
    previous endeavors;

Whereas OpSail 2000 promises to be the largest gathering in history of 
    tall ships and other majestic vessels like those that have sailed 
    the ocean for centuries;

Whereas in conjunction with OpSail 2000, the United States Navy will 
    conduct an International Naval Review; and

Whereas the International Naval Review will include a naval aircraft 
    carrier as a symbol of the international good will of the United 
    States of America: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That--

            (1) Operation Sail is commended for its advancement of 
        brotherhood among nations, its continuing commemoration of the 
        history of the United States, and its nurturing of young cadets 
        through training in seamanship;

            (2) all Americans and citizens of nations around the world 
        are encouraged to join in the celebration of the 224th birthday 
        of the United States of America and the international 
        camaraderie that Operation Sail and the International Naval 
        Review will foster; and

[[Page 110 STAT. 3362]]

            (3) Operation Sail is encouraged to continue into the next 
        millennium to represent and promote the United States of America 
        in the international tall ship community, and to continue 
        organizing and participating in tall ship events across the 
        United States and around the world.

    Approved October 9, 1996.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 64:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 142 (1996):
            Sept. 24, considered and passed Senate.
            Sept. 27, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>