[112th Congress Public Law 103]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 126 STAT. 284]]

Public Law 112-103
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the conveyance of approximately 140 acres of land in the 
  Ouachita National Forest in Oklahoma to the Indian Nations Council, 
Inc., of the Boy Scouts of America, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Apr. 
                        2, 2012 -  [H.R. 473]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Help to Access 
Land for the Education of Scouts.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Help to Access Land for the Education 
of Scouts'' or ``HALE Scouts Act''.
SEC. 2. LAND CONVEYANCE, OUACHITA NATIONAL FOREST, OKLAHOMA.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that it is in the public interest to 
provide for the sale of certain federally owned land in the Ouachita 
National Forest in Oklahoma to the Indian Nations Council, Inc., of the 
Boy Scouts of America, for market value consideration.
    (b) Conveyance Required.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall convey, by quitclaim deed, to the Indian 
Nations Council, Inc., of the Boy Scouts of America (in this section 
referred to as the ``Council'') all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to certain National Forest System land in the 
Ouachita National Forest in the State of Oklahoma consisting of 
approximately 140 acres, depending on the final measurement of the road 
set back and the actual size of the affected sections, as more fully 
described in subsection (c). The conveyance may not include any land 
located within the Indian Nations National Scenic and Wildlife Area 
designated by section 10 of the Winding Stair Mountain National 
Recreation and Wilderness Area Act (16 U.S.C. 460vv-8).
    (c) Covered Lands.--The National Forest System land to be conveyed 
under subsection (b) is depicted on the map entitled ``Boy Scout Land 
Request--Ouachita NF''. The map shall be on file and available for 
public inspection in the Forest Service Regional Office in Atlanta, 
Georgia.
    (d) Consideration.--As consideration for the land conveyed under 
subsection (b), the Council shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal 
to the fair market value of the land, as determined by an appraisal 
approved by the Secretary and done in conformity with the Uniform 
Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and section 206 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
    (e) Survey and Administrative Costs.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection

[[Page 126 STAT. 285]]

(b) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. The 
Council shall pay the reasonable costs of survey, appraisal, and any 
administrative analyses required by law.
    (f) Access.--Access to the land conveyed under subsection (b) shall 
be from the adjacent land of the Council or its successor. 
Notwithstanding section 1323(a) of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3210(a)), the Secretary shall not be 
required to provide additional access to the conveyed land.
    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may prescribe 
such terms and conditions on the conveyance under subsection (b) as the 
Secretary considers in the public interest, including the reservation of 
access rights to the conveyed land for administrative purposes.

    Approved April 2, 2012.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 473:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 112-218 (Comm. on Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 157 (2011):
                                    Oct. 3, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 158 (2012):
                                    Mar. 15, considered and passed 
                                        Senate.

                                  <all>