[112th Congress Public Law 85]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 1871]]

Public Law 112-85
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To designate the property between the United States Federal Courthouse 
   and the Ed Jones Building located at 109 South Highland Avenue in 
Jackson, Tennessee, as the ``M.D. Anderson Plaza'' and to authorize the 
     placement of a historical/identification marker on the grounds 
         recognizing the achievements and philanthropy of M.D. 
            Anderson. <<NOTE: Jan. 3, 2012 -  [H.R. 1264]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The Government has the responsibility to honor and 
        recognize Americans who have positively impacted the welfare of 
        other Americans.
            (2) Monroe Dunaway Anderson, born in Jackson, Tennessee, in 
        1873, was one of the United States' most successful agri-
        businessmen and respected philanthropists.
            (3) Monroe Dunaway Anderson, also known as M.D. Anderson, 
        attended public schools in Jackson, Tennessee.
            (4) After attending college in Memphis, Tennessee, M.D. 
        Anderson returned to Jackson, Tennessee, to work at the People's 
        National Bank.
            (5) In 1904, M.D. Anderson, his older brother Frank 
        Anderson, along with Will Clayton, established a partnership, 
        Anderson, Clayton, and Company, to buy and sell cotton in 
        Jackson, Tennessee.
            (6) In 1945, Anderson, Clayton, and Company was called the 
        largest buyer, seller, storer, and shipper of raw cotton in the 
        world by Fortune Magazine.
            (7) In 1936, M.D. Anderson established the M.D. Anderson 
        Foundation. This foundation funded the M.D. Anderson Cancer 
        Center which grew into the largest medical complex in the world, 
        the Texas Medical Center in Houston, Texas.
            (8) M.D. Anderson's positive impact in the cotton trade is 
        still being felt by the cotton businesses in and around Jackson, 
        Tennessee, and throughout the world.
            (9) M.D. Anderson and his foundation's imprint on medical 
        research, education, and agri-business should be memorialized in 
        the town of his birth, Jackson, Tennessee, and deems 
        recognition.

[[Page 125 STAT. 1872]]

SEC. 2. M.D. ANDERSON PLAZA.

    (a) Designation.--The property in between the United States 
Courthouse and the Ed Jones Building located at 109 South Highland 
Avenue in Jackson, Tennessee, shall be known and designated as the 
``M.D. Anderson Plaza''.
    (b) Marker and Statues Authorized.--West Tennessee Health Care 
Foundation is hereby authorized to install in a prominent location on 
that portion of the Plaza under the jurisdiction of the General Services 
Administration--
            (1) a Tennessee State Historical Society marker recognizing 
        the outstanding achievements in business and philanthropy on the 
        grounds between the United States Courthouse and the Ed Jones 
        Building; and
            (2) a life-sized statue depicting M.D. Anderson, with 
        information recognizing persons who donated funds for the 
        manufacturing of the statues.

    (c) Design of Marker.--The marker authorized by subsection (b)(1) 
shall be at least 42 inches in height.
    (d) Prohibition on Use of Federal Funds.--No Federal funds may be 
expended to design the marker, to acquire the marker, to prepare the 
sight selected for the marker, to install the marker, or to maintain the 
marker or the statues authorized in subsection (b).
    (e) Approval.--
            (1) Submission of design.-- <<NOTE: Consultation.>> The West 
        Tennessee Health Care Foundation shall consult with the 
        Administrator of General Services in the design of the marker 
        and statue authorized under subsection (b) and shall submit a 
        design for approval.
            (2) Design approval.--The design of a marker or statue as 
        authorized under subsection (b) shall be subject to the approval 
        of the Administrator.
            (3) Timing of review.-- <<NOTE: Deadline.>> The 
        Administrator shall conduct a review of the design not later 
        than 90 days after the submission of the design.
            (4) Failure to approve.-- <<NOTE: Reports.>> In the event 
        that the Administrator fails to approve the design, the 
        Administrator shall submit a report to the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure in the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee

[[Page 125 STAT. 1873]]

        on Environment and Public Works in the Senate detailing the 
        reasons for failing to approve the design.

    Approved January 3, 2012.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1264:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 112-325 (Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Dec. 12, 14, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 17, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>