[112th Congress Public Law 197]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 126 STAT. 1461]]

Public Law 112-197
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to allow the construction and 
  operation of natural gas pipeline facilities in the Gateway National 
Recreation Area, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Nov. 27, 2012 -  [H.R. 
                                2606]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: New York City 
Natural Gas Supply Enhancement Act.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``New York City Natural Gas Supply 
Enhancement Act''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Permittee.--The term ``permittee'' means the 
        Transcontinental Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, (Transco), its 
        successors or assigns.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION FOR PERMIT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may issue permits for rights-of-way 
or other necessary authorizations to allow the permittee to construct, 
operate, and maintain a natural gas pipeline and related facilities 
within the Gateway National Recreation Area in New York, as described in 
Federal Regulatory Commission Docket No. PF09-8.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--A permit issued under this section shall 
be--
            (1) consistent with the laws and regulations generally 
        applicable to utility rights-of-way within units of the National 
        Park System; and
            (2) subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        deems appropriate.

    (c) Fees.--The Secretary shall charge a fee for any permit issued 
under this section. The fee shall be based on fair market value and 
shall also provide for recovery of costs incurred by the National Park 
Service associated with the processing, issuance, and monitoring of the 
permit. The Secretary shall retain any fees associated with the recovery 
of costs.
    (d) Term.--Any permit issued under this section shall be for a term 
of 10 years. The permit may be renewed at the discretion of the 
Secretary in accordance with this section.
SEC. 4. LEASE OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS AT FLOYD BENNETT FIELD.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may enter into a non-competitive 
lease with the permittee to allow the occupancy and use of

[[Page 126 STAT. 1462]]

buildings and associated property at Floyd Bennett Field within the 
Gateway National Recreation Area to house meter and regulating equipment 
and other equipment necessary to the operation of the natural gas 
pipeline described in section 3(a).
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--A lease entered into under this section 
shall--
            (1) be in accordance with section 3(k) of the National Park 
        System General Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-2(k)), except that 
        the proceeds from rental payments may be used for infrastructure 
        needs, resource protection and restoration, and visitor services 
        at Gateway National Recreation Area; and
            (2) provide for the restoration and maintenance of the 
        buildings and associated property in accordance with section 106 
        of the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470f) and 
        applicable regulations and programmatic agreements.
SEC. 5. ENFORCEMENT.

    The Secretary may impose citations or fines, or suspend or revoke 
any authority under a permit or lease issued in accordance with this Act 
for failure to comply with, or a violation of any term or condition of 
such permit or lease.

    Approved November 27, 2012.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2606:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 112-373 (Comm. on Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 158 (2012):
            Feb. 6, 7, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 21, considered and passed Senate, amended.
            Nov. 14, House concurred in Senate amendment.

                                  <all>