[112th Congress Public Law 73]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 125 STAT. 784]]

Public Law 112-73
112th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To authorize the presentation of a United States flag on behalf of 
 Federal civilian employees who die of injuries incurred in connection 
     with their employment. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2011 -  [H.R. 2061]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Civilian Service 
Recognition Act of 2011. 5 USC 5570 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Civilian Service Recognition Act of 
2011''.
SEC. 2. PRESENTATION OF UNITED STATES FLAG ON BEHALF OF FEDERAL 
                    CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES WHO DIE OF INJURIES 
                    INCURRED IN CONNECTION WITH THEIR EMPLOYMENT.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--Upon receipt of a request under 
subsection (b), the head of an executive agency may give a flag of the 
United States for an individual who--
            (1) was an employee of the agency; and
            (2) dies <<NOTE: President.>>  of injuries incurred in 
        connection with such individual's employment with the Federal 
        Government, suffered as a result of a criminal act, an act of 
        terrorism, a natural disaster, or other circumstance as 
        determined by the President.

    (b) Request for Flag.--The head of an executive agency may furnish a 
flag for a deceased employee described in subsection (a) upon the 
request of--
            (1) the employee's widow or widower, child, sibling, or 
        parent; or
            (2) if no request is received from an individual described 
        in paragraph (1), an individual other than the next of kin as 
        determined by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management.

    (c) Classified Information.--The head of an executive agency may 
disclose information necessary to show that a deceased individual is an 
employee described in subsection (a) to the extent that such information 
is not classified and to the extent that such disclosure does not 
endanger the national security of the United States.
    (d) Employee Notification of Flag Benefit.--The head of an executive 
agency shall provide appropriate notice to employees of the agency of 
the flag benefit provided for under this section.
    (e) Regulations.--The Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, may prescribe regulations to implement 
this section. Any such regulations shall provide for the

[[Page 125 STAT. 785]]

head of an executive agency to consider the conditions and circumstances 
surrounding the death of an employee and nature of the service of the 
employee.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Employee.--The term ``employee'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, and 
        includes an officer or employee of the United States Postal 
        Service or of the Postal Regulatory Commission.
            (2) Executive agency.--The term ``executive agency'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 105 of title 5, United States 
        Code, and includes the United States Postal Service and the 
        Postal Regulatory Commission.

    Approved December 20, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2061:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 112-149 (Comm. on Oversight and Government Reform).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 157 (2011):
            Nov. 2, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>