[115th Congress Public Law 336]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 132 STAT. 5025]]

Public Law 115-336
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To improve executive agency digital services, and for other 
            purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 20, 2018 -  [H.R. 5759]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: 21st Century 
Integrated Digital Experience Act. 44 USC 3501 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``21st Century Integrated Digital 
Experience Act'' or the ``21st Century IDEA''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Management and Budget.
            (2) Executive agency.--The term ``executive agency'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``Executive agency'' in section 105 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 3. WEBSITE MODERNIZATION.

    (a) Requirements for New Websites and Digital Services.--Not 
later <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, an executive agency that creates a website or digital service 
that is intended for use by the public, or conducts a redesign of an 
existing legacy website or digital service that is intended for use by 
the public, shall ensure to the greatest extent practicable that any new 
or redesigned website, web-based form, web-based application, or digital 
service--
            (1) is accessible to individuals with disabilities in 
        accordance with section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 
        (29 U.S.C. 794d);
            (2) has a consistent appearance;
            (3) does not overlap with or duplicate any legacy websites 
        and, if applicable, ensure that legacy websites are regularly 
        reviewed, eliminated, and consolidated;
            (4) contains a search function that allows users to easily 
        search content intended for public use;
            (5) is provided through an industry standard secure 
        connection;
            (6) is designed around user needs with data-driven analysis 
        influencing management and development decisions, using 
        qualitative and quantitative data to determine user goals, 
        needs, and behaviors, and continually test the website, web-
        based form, web-based application, or digital service to ensure 
        that user needs are addressed;
            (7) provides users of the new or redesigned website, web-
        based form, web-based application, or digital service with the

[[Page 132 STAT. 5026]]

        option for a more customized digital experience that allows 
        users to complete digital transactions in an efficient and 
        accurate manner; and
            (8) is fully functional and usable on common mobile devices.

    (b) Requirements for Existing Executive Agency Websites and Digital 
Services.--Not later <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the head of each executive agency that maintains 
a website or digital service that is made available to the public 
shall--
            (1) review each website or digital service; and
            (2) <<NOTE: Reports.>>  submit to Congress a report that 
        includes--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Lists.>>  a list of the websites and 
                digital services maintained by the executive agency that 
                are most viewed or utilized by the public or are 
                otherwise important for public engagement;
                    (B) from among the websites and digital services 
                listed under subparagraph (A), a prioritization of 
                websites and digital services that require modernization 
                to meet the requirements under subsection (a); and
                    (C) <<NOTE: Cost estimate.>>  an estimation of the 
                cost and schedule of modernizing the websites and 
                digital services prioritized under subparagraph (B).

    (c) Internal Digital Services.--The head of each executive agency 
shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that any Intranet 
established after the date of enactment of this Act conforms to the 
requirements described in subsection (a).
    (d) Public Reporting.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act and every year thereafter for 4 years, the head of 
each executive agency shall--
            (1) report annually to the Director on the progress of the 
        executive agency in implementing the requirements described in 
        this section for the previous year; and
            (2) include the information described in paragraph (1) in a 
        publicly available report that is required under another 
        provision of law.

    (e) Compliance With United States Website Standards.--Any website of 
an executive agency that is made available to the public after the date 
of enactment of this Act shall be in compliance with the website 
standards of the Technology Transformation Services of the General 
Services Administration.
SEC. 4. DIGITIZATION OF GOVERNMENT SERVICES AND FORMS.

    (a) <<NOTE: Deadline. Guidance.>>  Non-Digital Services.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
shall issue guidance to the head of each executive agency that 
establishes a process for the executive agency to--
            (1) identify public non-digital, paper-based, or in-person 
        Government services; and
            (2) include in the budget request of the executive agency--
                    (A) <<NOTE: Lists.>>  a list of non-digital services 
                with the greatest impact that could be made available to 
                the public through an online, mobile-friendly, digital 
                service option in a manner that decreases cost, 
                increases digital conversion rates, and improves 
                customer experience; and
                    (B) <<NOTE: Cost estimate.>>  an estimation of the 
                cost and schedule associated with carrying out the 
                modernization described in subparagraph (A).

[[Page 132 STAT. 5027]]

    (b) Services Required To Be Digital.--The head of each executive 
agency shall regularly review public-facing applications and services to 
ensure that those applications and services are, to the greatest extent 
practicable, made available to the public in a digital format.
    (c) <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Forms Required To Be Digital.--Not later 
than 2 years after the enactment of this Act, the head of each executive 
agency shall ensure that any paper based form that is related to serving 
the public is made available in a digital format that meets the 
requirements described in section 3(a).

    (d) Non-Digitizable Processes.--If the head of an executive agency 
cannot make available in a digital format under this section an in-
person Government service, form, or paper-based process, the head of the 
executive agency shall document--
            (1) the title of the in-person Government service, form, or 
        paper-based process;
            (2) a description of the in-person Government service, form, 
        or paper-based process;
            (3) each unit responsible for the in-person Government 
        service, form, or paper-based process and the location of each 
        unit in the organizational hierarchy of the executive agency;
            (4) any reasons why the in-person Government service, form, 
        or paper-based process cannot be made available under this 
        section; and
            (5) any potential solutions that could allow the in-person 
        Government service, form, or paper-based process to be made 
        available under this section, including the implementation of 
        existing technologies, procedural changes, regulatory changes, 
        and legislative changes.

    (e) Physical Availability.--Each executive agency shall maintain an 
accessible method of completing digital services through in-person, 
paper-based, or other means, such that individuals without the ability 
to use digital services are not deprived of or impeded in access to 
those digital services.
SEC. 5. <<NOTE: Deadline. Plan.>>  ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the head of each executive agency shall submit to the Director and the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan to accelerate the use of 
electronic signatures standards established under the Electronic 
Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (15 U.S.C. 7001 et seq.).
SEC. 6. <<NOTE: Coordination.>>  CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND DIGITAL 
                    SERVICE DELIVERY.

    The Chief Information Officer of each executive agency, or a 
designee, shall--
            (1) coordinate and ensure alignment of the internal and 
        external customer experience programs and strategy of the 
        executive agency;
            (2) coordinate with the management leaders of the executive 
        agency, including the head of the executive agency, the Chief 
        Financial Officer, and any program manager, to ensure proper 
        funding to support the implementation of this Act;
            (3) <<NOTE: Recommenda- tions.>>  continually examine the 
        digital service delivery strategy of the executive agency to the 
        public and submit recommendations to the head of the executive 
        agency providing guidance and best practices suitable to the 
        mission of the executive agency;

[[Page 132 STAT. 5028]]

            (4) using qualitative and quantitative data obtained from 
        across the executive agency relating to the experience and 
        satisfaction of customers, identify areas of concern that need 
        improvement and improve the delivery of customer service;
            (5) coordinate and ensure, with the approval of the head of 
        the executive agency, compliance by the executive agency with 
        section 3559 of title 44, United States Code; and
            (6) to the extent practicable, coordinate with other 
        agencies and seek to maintain as much standardization and 
        commonality with other agencies as practicable in implementing 
        the requirements of this Act, to best enable future transitions 
        to centralized shared services.
SEC. 7. STANDARDIZATION.

    (a) Design and Implementation.--Each executive agency shall, to the 
extent practicable, seek to maintain as much standardization and 
commonality with other executive agencies as practicable in implementing 
the requirements of this Act to best enable future transitions to 
centralized shared services.
    (b) Coordination.--The Chief Information Officer of each executive 
agency, or a designee, shall coordinate the implementation of the 
requirements of this Act, including the development of standards and 
commonalities.
    (c) Federal Supply Schedule.--
            (1) In general.--The General Services Administration shall 
        make available under a Federal Supply Schedule the systems and 
        services necessary to fulfill the requirements of this Act.
            (2) Requirements.--The Federal Supply Schedule described in 
        paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable, ensure 
        interoperability between executive agencies, compliance with 
        industry standards, and adherence to best practices for design, 
        accessibility, and information security.

    Approved December 20, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 5759 (S. 3050):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-1055 (Comm. on Oversight and Government Reform).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 115-418 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs) accompanying S. 3050.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 164 (2018):
            Nov. 29, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 11, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>