[115th Congress Public Law 69]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 131 STAT. 1207]]

Public Law 115-69
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To require the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
   to submit a report regarding certain plans regarding assistance to 
     applicants and grantees during the response to an emergency or 
            disaster. <<NOTE: Oct. 18, 2017 -  [H.R. 1117]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. ACTION PLAN TO IMPROVE FIELD TRANSITION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) shall report to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate regarding the 
plans the agency will undertake to provide the following:
            (1) Consistent guidance to applicants on FEMA disaster 
        funding procedures during the response to an emergency or 
        disaster.
            (2) Appropriate record maintenance and transfer of documents 
        to new teams during staff transitions.
            (3) Accurate assistance to applicants and grantees to ease 
        the administrative burden throughout the process of obtaining 
        and monitoring assistance.

    (b) Maintaining Records.--The report shall also include a plan for 
implementing operating procedures and document retention requirements to 
ensure the maintenance of appropriate records throughout the lifecycle 
of the emergency or disaster.
    (c) New Technologies.--Finally, the report shall identify new 
technologies that further aid the disaster workforce in partnering with 
State, local, and tribal governments and private nonprofits in the wake 
of a disaster or emergency to educate, assist, and inform applicants on 
the status of their emergency or disaster assistance applications and 
projects.

    Approved October 18, 2017.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1117:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-31 (Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 115-158 (Comm. on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 163 (2017):
            Mar. 27, considered and passed House.
            Oct. 4, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>