[115th Congress Public Law 112]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 131 STAT. 2274]]

Public Law 115-112
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
    To improve the ability of U.S. Customs and Border Protection to 
  interdict fentanyl, other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and 
  psychoactive substances that are illegally imported into the United 
 States, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 10, 2018 -  [H.R. 2142]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: International 
Narcotics Trafficking Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming 
Contraband with Technology Act. 6 USC 211 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``International Narcotics Trafficking 
Emergency Response by Detecting Incoming Contraband with Technology 
Act'' or the ``INTERDICT Act''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Chemical screening device.--The term ``chemical 
        screening device'' means an immunoassay, narcotics field test 
        kit, infrared spectrophotometer, mass spectrometer, nuclear 
        magnetic resonance spectrometer, Raman spectrophotometer, or 
        other scientific instrumentation able to collect data that can 
        be interpreted to determine the presence of fentanyl, other 
        synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
        substances.
            (2) Commissioner.--The term ``Commissioner'' means the 
        Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.
            (3) Express consignment operator or carrier.--The term 
        ``express consignment operator or carrier'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 128.1 of title 19, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (or any similar successor regulation).
SEC. 3. INTERDICTION OF FENTANYL, OTHER SYNTHETIC OPIOIDS, AND 
                    OTHER NARCOTICS AND PSYCHOACTIVE SUBSTANCES.

    (a) Chemical Screening Devices.--The Commissioner shall--
            (1) increase the number of chemical screening devices 
        available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers over 
        the number of such devices that are available on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; and
            (2) make such additional chemical screening devices 
        available to U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers as the 
        Commissioner determines are necessary to interdict fentanyl, 
        other synthetic opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive 
        substances that are illegally imported into the United States, 
        including such substances that are imported through the mail or 
        by an express consignment operator or carrier.

    (b) Personnel to Interpret Data.--The Commissioner shall dedicate 
the appropriate number of U.S. Customs and Border

[[Page 131 STAT. 2275]]

Protection personnel, including scientists, so that such personnel are 
available during all operational hours to interpret data collected by 
chemical screening devices.
SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated to the Commissioner 
$9,000,000 to ensure that U.S. Customs and Border Protection has 
resources, including chemical screening devices, personnel, and 
scientists, available during all operational hours to prevent, detect, 
and interdict the unlawful importation of fentanyl, other synthetic 
opioids, and other narcotics and psychoactive substances.

    Approved January 10, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 2142:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 115-317 (Comm. on Homeland Security).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 163 (2017):
            Oct. 23, 24, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 21, considered and passed Senate.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2017):
            Jan. 10, Presidential remarks.

                                  <all>