[115th Congress Public Law 132]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 335]]

                        LEXINGTON VA HEALTH CARE 
                      SYSTEM AND OTHER DESIGNATIONS

[[Page 132 STAT. 336]]

Public Law 115-132
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To designate the health care system of the Department of Veterans 
   Affairs in Lexington, Kentucky, as the ``Lexington VA Health Care 
    System'' and to make certain other designations. <<NOTE: Mar. 9, 
                         2018 -  [H.R. 4533]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1)(A) <<NOTE: Franklin Runyon Sousley.>>  Private First 
        Class Franklin Runyon Sousley was born on September 19, 1925, in 
        Hilltop, Kentucky. Sousley served as a marine in the United 
        States Marine Corps during the period beginning on January 5, 
        1944, and ending March 21, 1945. Sousley graduated from Fleming 
        County High School in May 1943 and chose to enlist in the United 
        States Marine Corps. Upon completion of military basic training, 
        he was assigned to Company E, 2d Battalion, 28th Marines, of the 
        5th Marines Division at Camp Pendleton, California, as an 
        automatic rifleman.
            (B) Private Sousley was promoted to a private first class on 
        November 22, 1944. Pfc. Sousley landed on Iwo Jima on Friday, 
        February 19, 1945, and actively fought in the battle for the 
        islands. During the intense fighting, members of the United 
        States Armed Forces secured Mount Suribachi and hoisted a United 
        States flag on top of the summit on February 23, 1945. On 
        February 23, 1945, Pfc. Sousley, alongside Corporal Harlon 
        Block, HM John Bradley, Pfc. Rene Gagnon, Pfc. Ira Hayes, and 
        Sergeant Michael Strank followed orders to raise a larger United 
        States flag so it could be seen over the island. The iconic 
        photograph taken of the six men, while they raised the United 
        States flag attached to a heavy Japanese pipe has led to an 
        immortalized symbol of American bravery, perseverance, and 
        sacrifice endured by members of the United States Armed Forces 
        during the intense battles of World War II. Pfc. Sousley was 
        killed in combat by a Japanese sniper around Kitano Point on 
        March 21, 1945.
            (C) Originally buried in the 5th Marine Division Cemetery at 
        Iwo Jima in plot 9, row 8, grave 2189, on March 22, 1945, his 
        remains were returned to the United States on May 8, 1947, where 
        he was finally laid to rest at Elizaville Cemetery in Fleming 
        County, Kentucky. Pfc. Sousley was posthumously awarded the 
        Purple Heart, the Combat Action Ribbon, the Presidential Unit 
        Citation with \5/16\" Silver Star, the American Campaign Medal, 
        the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with \3/16\" Bronze Star, and 
        the World War II Victory Medal.

[[Page 132 STAT. 337]]

            (2)(A) <<NOTE: Troy Bowling.>>  Mr. Troy Bowling was born on 
        July 2, 1926, in Hamilton, Ohio and completed his life's service 
        on June, 17, 2017, at the age of 90 years old. At age 17, Mr. 
        Bowling began his service as a United States Marine and was a 
        proud member of the Easy Company, 2nd Battalion, 27th Marines, 
        5th Division. During the United States campaign to end the war 
        against Japan, Mr. Bowling's unit was among the first to arrive 
        on the beachheads of Iwo Jima.
            (B) While attempting to secure Mt. Suribachi, his unit came 
        under intense and concentrated fire, completely overwhelming his 
        unit. Two projectiles struck Mr. Bowling in the chest and leg, 
        leaving him critically wounded on the battlefield. At that 
        moment, Mr. Bowling said he looked to the heavens and committed 
        to serving mankind for the rest of his life if he survived.
            (C) Miraculously, a combat photographer and medical team 
        then carried Mr. Bowling to the safety of a landing craft where 
        he witnessed the planting of the American flag atop Mt. 
        Suribachi--an iconic image that persists as one of the most 
        legendary and triumphant moments of the war. The United States 
        Marines eventually took control of the island; however, this 
        victory came at a heavy cost as more than 6,800 United States 
        service members gave their lives during the battle of Iwo Jima.
            (D) In keeping faith with his commitment to God made during 
        that battle, Mr. Bowling devoted more than 78,000 hours of 
        volunteer service to others at the Lexington VA Medical Center. 
        For more than 66 years, Mr. Bowling has risen through the ranks 
        within the Disabled American Veterans (DAV) organization, 
        holding nearly every position possible, including State 
        Commander. Mr. Bowling received the George H. Seal Award for 
        outstanding volunteer, which he received at the 2005 National 
        DAV Convention in Las Vegas and the Lifetime Service Achievement 
        Award from the Department of Veteran Affairs. Mr. Bowling was 
        also nominated and selected to be inducted in the Kentucky 
        Veterans Hall of Fame for his lifetime of service to veterans.
SEC. 2. LEXINGTON VA HEALTH CARE SYSTEM.

    (a) Designation.--The health care system of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs in Lexington, Kentucky, shall after the date of the 
enactment of this Act be known and designated as the ``Lexington VA 
Health Care System''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the health care 
system referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Lexington VA Health Care System''.
SEC. 3. TROY BOWLING CAMPUS.

    (a) Designation.--The health care facility of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs located at 1101 Veterans Drive in Lexington, Kentucky, 
shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and 
designated as the ``Troy Bowling Campus''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the health care 
facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Troy Bowling Campus''.

[[Page 132 STAT. 338]]

SEC. 4. FRANKLIN R. SOUSLEY CAMPUS.

    (a) Designation.--The health care facility of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs located at 2250 Leestown Road in Lexington, Kentucky, 
shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and 
designated as the ``Franklin R. Sousley Campus''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the health care 
facility referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference 
to the ``Franklin R. Sousley Campus''.

    Approved March 9, 2018.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 4533:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 164 (2018):
            Feb. 13, considered and passed House.
            Feb. 15, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>