[115th Congress Public Law 411]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]



[[Page 132 STAT. 5424]]

Public Law 115-411
115th Congress

                                 An Act


 
      To direct the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
    International Development to submit to Congress a report on the 
   development and use of global health innovations in the programs, 
 projects, and activities of the Agency. <<NOTE: Jan. 3, 2019 -  [H.R. 
                                1660]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Global Health 
Innovation Act of 2017.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Global Health Innovation Act of 
2017''.
SEC. 2. ANNUAL REPORT.

    (a) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  In General.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 
a period of 4 years, the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development shall submit to Congress a report on the 
development and use of global health innovations in the programs, 
projects, and activities of the Agency.

    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) A description of--
                    (A) the extent to which global health innovations 
                described in subsection (a) include drugs, diagnostics, 
                devices, vaccines, electronic and mobile health 
                technologies, and related behavior change and service 
                delivery innovations;
                    (B) how innovation has advanced the Agency's 
                commitments to achieving an HIV/AIDS-free generation, 
                ending preventable child and maternal deaths, and 
                protecting communities from infectious diseases, as well 
                as furthered by the Global Health Strategic Framework;
                    (C) how goals are set for health product development 
                in relation to the Agency's health-related goals and how 
                progress and impact are measured towards those goals;
                    (D) how the Agency's investments in innovation 
                relate to its stated goals; and
                    (E) progress made towards health product development 
                goals.
            (2) How the Agency, both independently and with partners, 
        donors, and public-private partnerships, is--
                    (A) leveraging United States investments to achieve 
                greater impact in health innovation;
                    (B) engaging in activities to develop, advance, and 
                introduce affordable, available, and appropriate global 
                health products; and

[[Page 132 STAT. 5425]]

                    (C) scaling up appropriate health innovations in the 
                development pipeline.
            (3) A description of collaboration and coordination with 
        other Federal departments and agencies, including the Centers 
        for Disease Control and Prevention, in support of global health 
        product development, including a description of how the Agency 
        is working to ensure critical gaps in product development for 
        global health are being filled.
            (4) A description of how the Agency is coordinating and 
        aligning global health innovation activities between the Global 
        Development Lab, the Center for Accelerating Innovation and 
        Impact, and the Bureau for Global Health.

    Approved January 3, 2019.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1660:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 164 (2018):
            Jan. 17, 18, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 20, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>