[109th Congress Public Law 396]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ396.109]

[[Page 120 STAT. 2711]]

Public Law 109-396
109th Congress

                                 An Act


 
   To provide for the sale, acquisition, conveyance, and exchange of 
  certain real property in the District of Columbia to facilitate the 
 utilization, development, and redevelopment of such property, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 15, 2006 -  [H.R. 3699]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Federal and 
District of Columbia Government Real Property Act of 2006.>> 
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 40 USC 101 note.>> SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal and District of Columbia 
Government Real Property Act of 2006''.

    TITLE I--REAL PROPERTY CONVEYANCES BETWEEN THE GENERAL SERVICES 
               ADMINISTRATION AND THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

SEC. 101. EXCHANGE OF TITLE OVER RESERVATION 13 AND CERTAIN OTHER 
                        PROPERTIES.

    (a) Conveyance of Properties.--
            (1) In general.--On the date on which the District of 
        Columbia conveys to the Administrator of General Services all 
        right, title, and interest of the District of Columbia in the 
        property described in subsection (c), the Administrator shall 
        convey to the District of Columbia all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in--
                    (A) U.S. Reservation 13, subject to the conditions 
                described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) Old Naval Hospital.
            (2) Properties defined.--In this section--
                    (A) the term ``U.S. Reservation 13'' means that 
                parcel of land in the District of Columbia consisting of 
                the approximately 66 acres which is bounded on the north 
                by Independence Avenue Southeast, on the west by 19th 
                Street Southeast, on the south by G Street Southeast, 
                and on the east by United States Reservation 343, and 
                being the same land described in the Federal transfer 
                letter of October 25, 2002, from the United States to 
                the District of Columbia, and subject to existing 
                matters of record; and
                    (B) the term ``Old Naval Hospital'' means the 
                property in the District of Columbia consisting of 
                Square 948 in its entirety, together with all the 
                improvements thereon.

[[Page 120 STAT. 2712]]

    (b) Conditions For Conveyance of Reservation 13.--As a condition for 
the conveyance of U.S. Reservation 13 to the District of Columbia under 
this section, the District of Columbia shall agree--
            (1) to set aside a portion of the property for the extension 
        of Massachusetts Avenue Southeast and the placement of a 
        potential commemorative work to be established pursuant to 
        chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code, at the terminus of 
        Massachusetts Avenue Southeast (as so extended) at the Anacostia 
        River;
            (2) to convey all right, title, and interest of the District 
        of Columbia in the portion set aside under paragraph (1) to the 
        Secretary of the Interior (acting through the Director of the 
        National Park Service) at such time as the Secretary may 
        require, if a commemorative work is established in the manner 
        described in paragraph (1);
            (3) to permit the Court Services and Offender Supervision 
        Agency for the District of Columbia to continue to occupy a 
        portion of the property consistent with the requirements of the 
        District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2002 (Public Law 107-
        96; 115 Stat. 931); and
            (4) to develop the property consistent with the Anacostia 
        Waterfront Corporation's Master Plan for Reservation 13 (also 
        known as the Hill East Waterfront).

    (c) District of Columbia Property to Be Conveyed to the 
Administrator.--The property described in this subsection is the real 
property consisting of Building Nos. 16, 37, 38, 118, and 118-A and 
related improvements, together with the real property underlying those 
buildings and improvements, on the West Campus of Saint Elizabeths 
Hospital, as described in the quitclaim deed of September 30, 1987, by 
and between the United States and the District of Columbia and recorded 
in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds of the District of Columbia on 
October 7, 1987.
SEC. 102. TERMINATION OF CLAIMS. <<NOTE: 24 USC 225b note.>> 

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
United States is not required to perform, or to reimburse the District 
of Columbia for the cost of performing, any of the following services:
            (1) Repairs or renovations pursuant to section 4(f) of the 
        Saint Elizabeths Hospital and District of Columbia Mental Health 
        Services Act (24 U.S.C. 225b(f); sec. 44-903(f), D.C. Official 
        Code).
            (2) Preservation, maintenance, or repairs pursuant to a use 
        permit executed on September 30, 1987, under which the United 
        States (acting through the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services) granted permission to the District of Columbia to use 
        and occupy portions of the Saint Elizabeths Hospital property 
        known as the ``West Campus''.
            (3) Mental health diagnostic and treatment services for 
        referrals as described in section 9(b) of the Saint Elizabeths 
        Hospital and District of Columbia Mental Health Services Act (24 
        U.S.C. 225g(b); sec. 44-908(b), D.C. Official Code), but only 
        with respect to services provided on or before the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

    (b) Effect on Pending Claims.--Any claim of the District of Columbia 
against the United States for the failure to perform,

[[Page 120 STAT. 2713]]

or to reimburse the District of Columbia for the cost of performing, any 
service described in subsection (a) which is pending as of the date of 
the enactment of this Act shall be extinguished and terminated.

TITLE II--STREAMLINING MANAGEMENT OF PROPERTIES LOCATED IN THE DISTRICT 
                               OF COLUMBIA

SEC. 201. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note, 8903 note.>> TRANSFER OF 
                        ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION OVER CERTAIN 
                        PROPERTIES.

    (a) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction From District of 
Columbia to United States.--
            (1) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over each of 
        the following properties (owned by the United States and as 
        depicted on the Map) is hereby transferred, subject to the terms 
        in this subsection, from the District of Columbia to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for administration by the Director:
                    (A) An unimproved portion of Audubon Terrace 
                Northwest, located east of Linnean Avenue Northwest, 
                that is within U.S. Reservation 402 (National Park 
                Service property).
                    (B) An unimproved portion of Barnaby Street 
                Northwest, north of Aberfoyle Place Northwest, that 
                abuts U.S. Reservation 545 (National Park Service 
                property).
                    (C) A portion of Canal Street Southwest, and a 
                portion of V Street Southwest, each of which abuts U.S. 
                Reservation 467 (National Park Service property).
                    (D) Unimproved streets and alleys at Fort Circle 
                Park located within the boundaries of U.S. Reservation 
                497 (National Park Service property).
                    (E) An unimproved portion of Western Avenue 
                Northwest, north of Oregon Avenue Northwest, that abuts 
                U.S. Reservation 339 (National Park Service property).
                    (F) An unimproved portion of 17th Street Northwest, 
                south of Shepherd Street Northwest, that abuts U.S. 
                Reservation 339 (National Park Service property).
                    (G) An unimproved portion of 30th Street Northwest, 
                north of Broad Branch Road Northwest, that is within the 
                boundaries of U.S. Reservation 515 (National Park 
                Service property).
                    (H) Subject to paragraph (2), lands over I-395 
                bounded by Washington Avenue Southwest, 2nd Street 
                Southwest, and the C Street Southwest ramps to I-295.
                    (I) A portion of U.S. Reservation 357 at Whitehaven 
                Parkway Northwest, previously transferred to the 
                District of Columbia in conjunction with the former 
                proposal for a residence for the Mayor of the District 
                of Columbia.
            (2) Use <<NOTE: Armed forces.>> of certain property for 
        memorial.--In the case of the property for which administrative 
        jurisdiction is transferred under paragraph (1)(H), the property 
        shall be used as the site for the establishment of a memorial to 
        honor disabled veterans of the United States Armed Forces 
        authorized to be

[[Page 120 STAT. 2714]]

        established by the Disabled Veterans' LIFE Memorial Foundation 
        by Public Law 106-348 (114 Stat. 1358; 40 U.S.C. 8903 note), 
        except that--
                    (A) the District of Columbia shall retain 
                administrative jurisdiction over the subsurface area 
                beneath the site for the tunnel, walls, footings, and 
                related facilities;
                    (B) C Street Southwest shall not be connected 
                between 2nd Street Southwest and Washington Avenue 
                Southwest without the approval of the Architect of the 
                Capitol; and
                    (C) a walkway shall be included across the site of 
                the memorial between 2nd Street Southwest and Washington 
                Avenue Southwest.
            (3) Additional transfer.--
                    (A) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over 
                the parcel bounded by 2nd Street Southwest, the C Street 
                Southwest ramp to I-295, the D Street Southwest ramp to 
                I-395, and I-295 is hereby transferred, subject to the 
                terms in this paragraph, from the District of Columbia 
                as follows:
                          (i) The northernmost .249 acres is transferred 
                      to the Secretary for administration by the 
                      Director, who (subject to the approval of the 
                      Architect of the Capitol) shall landscape the 
                      parcel or use the parcel for special needs parking 
                      for the memorial referred to in paragraph (2).
                          (ii) The remaining portion is transferred to 
                      the Architect of the Capitol.
                    (B) Retention of jurisdiction over subsurface 
                area.--The District of Columbia shall retain 
                administrative jurisdiction over the subsurface area 
                beneath the parcel referred to in subparagraph (A) for 
                the tunnel, walls, footings, and related facilities.

    (b) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction From United States to 
District of Columbia.--Administrative jurisdiction over the following 
property owned by the United States and depicted on the Map is hereby 
transferred from the Secretary to the District of Columbia for 
administration by the District of Columbia:
            (1) A portion of U.S. Reservation 451.
            (2) A portion of U.S. Reservation 404.
            (3) U.S. Reservations 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, and 49.
            (4) U.S. Reservation 251.
            (5) U.S. Reservation 8.
            (6) U.S. Reservations 277A and 277C.
            (7) Portions of U.S. Reservation 470.

    (c) Effective Date.--The transfers of administrative jurisdiction 
under this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
SEC. 202. EXCHANGE OF TITLE OVER CERTAIN PROPERTIES.

    (a) Conveyance of Title.--
            (1) In general.--On the date on which the District of 
        Columbia conveys to the Secretary all right, title, and interest 
        of the District of Columbia in each of the properties described 
        in subsection (b) for use as described in such subsection, the 
        Secretary shall convey to the District of Columbia all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in each of the 
        properties described in subsection (c).

[[Page 120 STAT. 2715]]

            (2) Administration by national park service.--The properties 
        conveyed by the District of Columbia to the Secretary under this 
        section shall be administered by the Director upon conveyance.

    (b) Properties to Be Conveyed to the Secretary; Use.--The properties 
described in this subsection and their uses are as follows (as depicted 
on the Map):
            (1) Lovers Lane Northwest, abutting U.S. Reservation 324, 
        for the closure of a one-block long roadway adjacent to Montrose 
        Park.
            (2) Needwood, Niagara, and Pitt Streets Northwest, within 
        the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park, for the 
        closing of the rights-of-way now occupied by the Chesapeake and 
        Ohio Canal.

    (c) Properties to Be Conveyed to the District of Columbia.--The 
properties described in this subsection are as follows (as depicted on 
the Map):
            (1) U.S. Reservation 17A.
            (2) U.S. Reservation 484.
            (3) U.S. Reservations 243, 244, 245, 247, and 248.
            (4) U.S. Reservations 128, 129, 130, 298, and 299.
            (5) Portions of U.S. Reservations 343D and 343E.
            (6) U.S. Reservations 721, 722, and 723.
SEC. 203. CONVEYANCE OF UNITED STATES RESERVATION 174.

    (a) Conveyance; Use.--If the District of Columbia enacts a final 
plan for the development of the former Convention Center Site which 
meets the requirements of subsection (b)--
            (1) the Secretary shall convey all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in U.S. Reservation 174 (as 
        depicted on the Map) to the District of Columbia upon the 
        enactment of such plan; and
            (2) the District shall use the property so conveyed in 
        accordance with such plan.

    (b) Requirements For Development Plan.--The plan for the development 
of the former Convention Center Site meets the requirements of this 
subsection if--
            (1) the plan is developed through a public process;
            (2) during the process for the development of the plan, the 
        District of Columbia considers at least one version of the plan 
        under which U.S. Reservation 174 is set aside as public open 
        space as of the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
        continue to be set aside as public open space (including a 
        version under which facilities are built under the surface of 
        such portion); and
            (3) not less than 1\1/4\ acres of the former Convention 
        Center Site are set aside for public open space under the plan.

    (c) Former Convention Center Site Defined.--In this section, the 
``former Convention Center Site'' means the parcel of land in the 
District of Columbia which is bounded on the east by 9th Street 
Northwest, on the north by New York Avenue Northwest, on the west by 
11th Street Northwest, and on the south by H Street Northwest.
SEC. 204. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> CONVEYANCE TO ARCHITECT OF 
                        THE CAPITOL.

    (a) In General.--Prior to conveyance of title to U.S. Reservation 13 
to the District of Columbia under this Act, the District of Columbia 
shall convey, with the approval of the Architect of

[[Page 120 STAT. 2716]]

the Capitol and subject to subsections (b) and (c), not more than 12 
acres of real property to the Architect of the Capitol.
    (b) Title Held by <<NOTE: Deadline. Notification.>> Secretary.--If 
title to the real property identified for conveyance under subsection 
(a) is held by the Secretary, not later than 30 days after being 
notified by the Architect of the Capitol that property has been so 
identified, the Secretary shall agree or disagree to conveying the 
interest in such property to the Architect of the Capitol.

    (c) Review.--If <<NOTE: Effective date.>> the Secretary agrees to 
the conveyance under subsection (b), or if title to the property is held 
by the District of Columbia, the real property shall be conveyed after a 
30-day review period beginning on the date on which notice of the 
conveyance is received by the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Rules of the Senate and the 
Committee on Government Reform and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

    (d) Study.--The Architect of the Capitol shall not construct a mail 
screening facility on any real property conveyed under this section 
unless each of the following conditions is satisfied:
            (1) A study is completed that analyzes--
                    (A) whether one or more other underutilized, 
                surplus, or excess Federal facilities exist in which 
                such a mail screening facility could be more 
                economically located; and
                    (B) whether it would be more efficient and 
                economical for the House of Representatives and Senate 
                to share one mail screening facility.
            (2) The study is submitted to the relevant committees of 
        Congress.
            (3) No fewer than 30 days have lapsed since the date of the 
        submission under paragraph (2).

                         TITLE III--POPLAR POINT

SEC. 301. CONVEYANCE OF POPLAR POINT TO DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

    (a) Conveyance.--Upon <<NOTE: Certification.>> certification by the 
Secretary of the Interior (acting through the Director) that the 
District of Columbia has adopted a land-use plan for Poplar Point which 
meets the requirements of section 302, the Director shall convey to the 
District of Columbia all right, title, and interest of the United States 
in Poplar Point, in accordance with this title.

    (b) Withholding of Existing Facilities and Properties of National 
Park Service From Initial Conveyance.--The Director shall withhold from 
the conveyance made under subsection (a) the facilities and related 
property (including necessary easements and utilities related thereto) 
which are occupied or otherwise used by the National Park Service until 
such terms for conveyance are met under section 303.
    (c) Deed Restriction For Park Purposes.--The deed for the conveyance 
of Poplar Point provided for in subsection (a) shall include a 
restriction requiring that 70 acres be maintained for park purposes in 
perpetuity, as identified in the land use plan required under section 
302. Any person (including an individual or public entity) shall have 
standing to enforce the restriction.

[[Page 120 STAT. 2717]]

SEC. 302. REQUIREMENTS FOR POPLAR POINT LAND-USE PLAN.

    (a) In General.--The land-use plan for Poplar Point meets the 
requirements of this section if the plan includes each of the following 
elements:
            (1) The plan provides for the reservation of a portion of 
        Poplar Point for park purposes, in accordance with subsection 
        (b).
            (2) The plan provides for the identification of existing 
        facilities and related properties of the National Park Service, 
        and the relocation of the National Park Service to replacement 
        facilities and related properties, in accordance with subsection 
        (c).
            (3) Under the plan, at least two sites within the areas 
        designated for park purposes are set aside for the placement of 
        potential commemorative works to be established pursuant to 
        chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code, and the plan 
        includes a commitment by the District of Columbia to convey back 
        those sites to the National Park Service at the appropriate 
        time, as determined by the Secretary.
            (4) To the greatest extent practicable, the plan is 
        consistent with the Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan referred 
        to in section 103 of the Anacostia Waterfront Corporation Act of 
        2004 (sec. 2-1223.03, D.C. Official Code).

    (b) Reservation of Areas For Park Purposes.--The plan shall identify 
a portion of Poplar Point consisting of not fewer than 70 acres 
(including wetlands) which shall be reserved for park purposes and shall 
require such portion to be reserved for such purposes in perpetuity.
    (c) Identification of Existing and Replacement Facilities and 
Properties For National Park Service.--
            (1) Identification of existing facilities.--The plan shall 
        identify the facilities and related property (including 
        necessary easements and utilities related thereto) which are 
        occupied or otherwise used by the National Park Service in 
        Poplar Point prior to the adoption of the plan.
            (2) Relocation to replacement facilities.--
                    (A) In general.--To the extent that the District of 
                Columbia and the Director determine jointly that it is 
                no longer appropriate for the National Park Service to 
                occupy or otherwise use any of the facilities and 
                related property identified under paragraph (1), the 
                plan shall--
                          (i) identify other suitable facilities and 
                      related property (including necessary easements 
                      and utilities related thereto) in the District of 
                      Columbia to which the National Park Service may be 
                      relocated;
                          (ii) provide that the District of Columbia 
                      shall take such actions as may be required to 
                      carry out the relocation, including preparing the 
                      new facilities and properties and providing for 
                      the transfer of such fixtures and equipment as the 
                      Director may require; and
                          (iii) set forth a timetable for the relocation 
                      of the National Park Service to the new 
                      facilities.
                    (B) Restriction on use of property reserved for park 
                purposes.--The plan may not identify any facility or 
                property for purposes of this paragraph which is located

[[Page 120 STAT. 2718]]

                on any portion of Poplar Point which is reserved for 
                park purposes in accordance with subsection (b).
            (3) Consultation required.--In developing each of the 
        elements of the plan which are required under this subsection, 
        the District of Columbia shall consult with the Director.
SEC. 303. CONVEYANCE OF REPLACEMENT FACILITIES AND PROPERTIES FOR 
                        NATIONAL PARK SERVICE.

    (a) Conveyance of Facilities and Related Properties.--
Upon <<NOTE: Certification.>> certification by the Director that the 
facilities and related property to which the National Park Service is to 
be relocated under the land-use plan under this title (in accordance 
with section 302(c)) are ready to be occupied or used by the National 
Park Service--
            (1) the District of Columbia shall convey to the Director 
        all right, title, and interest at no cost in the facilities and 
        related property (including necessary easements and utilities 
        related thereto) to which the National Park Service is to be 
        relocated (without regard to whether such facilities are located 
        in Poplar Point); and
            (2) the Director shall convey to the District of Columbia 
        all right, title, and interest in the facilities and related 
        property which were withheld from the conveyance of Poplar Point 
        under section 301(b) and from which the National Park Service is 
        to be relocated.

    (b) Restriction on Construction Projects Pending Certification of 
Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The District of Columbia may not initiate 
        any construction project with respect to Poplar Point until the 
        Director makes the certification referred to in subsection (a).
            (2) Exception for projects required to prepare facilities 
        for occupation by national park service.--Paragraph (1) shall 
        not apply with respect to any construction project required to 
        ensure that the facilities and related property to which the 
        National Park Service is to be relocated under the land-use plan 
        under this title (in accordance with section 302(c)) are ready 
        to be occupied by the National Park Service.
SEC. 304. POPLAR POINT DEFINED.

    In this title, ``Poplar Point'' means the parcel of land in the 
District of Columbia which is owned by the United States and which is 
under the administrative jurisdiction of the District of Columbia or the 
Director on the day before the date of enactment of this Act, and which 
is bounded on the north by the Anacostia River, on the northeast by and 
inclusive of the southeast approaches to the 11th Street bridges, on the 
southeast by and inclusive of Route 295, and on the northwest by and 
inclusive of the Frederick Douglass Memorial Bridge approaches to 
Suitland Parkway, as depicted on the Map.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 401. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) The term ``Administrator'' means the Administrator of 
        General Services.

[[Page 120 STAT. 2719]]

            (2) The term ``Director'' means the Director of the National 
        Park Service.
            (3) The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Transfer and 
        Conveyance of Properties in the District of Columbia'', numbered 
        869/80460, and dated July 2005, which shall be kept on file in 
        the appropriate office of the National Park Service.
            (4) The term ``park purposes'' includes landscaped areas, 
        pedestrian walkways, bicycle trails, seating, opensided 
        shelters, natural areas, recreational use areas, and memorial 
        sites reserved for public use.
            (5) The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
        Interior.
SEC. 402. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> LIMITATION ON COSTS.

    The United States shall not be responsible for paying any costs and 
expenses, other than costs and expenses related to or associated with 
environmental liabilities or cleanup actions provided under law, which 
are incurred by the District of Columbia or any other parties at any 
time in connection with effecting the provisions of this Act or any 
amendment made by this Act.
SEC. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> 403. AUTHORIZATION OF PARTIES TO 
                        ENTER INTO CONTRACTS.

    An officer or employee of the United States or the District of 
Columbia may contract for payment of costs or expenses related to any 
properties which are conveyed or for which administrative jurisdiction 
is transferred under this Act or any amendment made by this Act.
SEC. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> 404. NO EFFECT ON COMPLIANCE WITH 
                        ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS.

    Nothing in this Act or any amendment made by this Act may be 
construed to affect or limit the application of or obligation to comply 
with any environmental law, including section 120(h) of the 
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).
SEC. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> 405. CONGRESSIONAL REPORTS.

    (a) District of Columbia.--Not later than January 31 of each year, 
the Mayor of the District of Columbia shall report to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Government Reform, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, 
the Committee on Resources, and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives on the use and 
development during the previous year of land for which title is conveyed 
to the District of Columbia and land for which administrative 
jurisdiction is transferred to the District of Columbia pursuant to this 
Act.
    (b) Comptroller General.--The Comptroller General shall report 
periodically to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Government Reform, the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Resources, and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives on--
            (1) the use and development during the previous 2 years of 
        land for which title is conveyed and land for which 
        administrative jurisdiction is transferred pursuant to this Act; 
        and
            (2) if applicable, how such use and development complies 
        with the Anacostia Waterfront Framework Plan referred to

[[Page 120 STAT. 2720]]

        in section 103 of the Anacostia Waterfront Corporation Act of 
        2004 (sec. 2-1223.03, D.C. Official Code).

    (c) Sunset.--This section shall expire 10 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 406. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> TREATMENT AS PROPERTIES 
                        TRANSFERRED TO ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL AS 
                        PART OF CAPITOL BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.

    Upon transfer to the Architect of the Capitol of title to, or 
administrative jurisdiction over, any property pursuant to this Act, the 
property shall be a part of the United States Capitol Grounds and shall 
be subject to sections 9, 9A, 9B, 9C, 14, and 16(b) of the Act entitled 
``An Act to define the area of the United States Capitol Grounds, to 
regulate the use thereof, and for other purposes'' (relating to the 
policing of the United States Capitol Grounds) and sections 5101 to 5107 
and 5109 of title 40, United States Code (relating to prohibited acts 
within the United States Capitol Grounds).
SEC. 407. <<NOTE: 40 USC 5102 note.>> DEADLINE FOR PROVISION OF 
                        DEEDS AND RELATED DOCUMENTS.

    With respect to each property conveyed under this Act or any 
amendment made by this Act, the Mayor of the District of Columbia, the 
Administrator, or the Secretary (as the case may be) shall execute and 
deliver a quitclaim deed or prepare and record a transfer plat, as 
appropriate, not later than 6 months after the property is conveyed.
SEC. <<NOTE: 40 USC 524 note.>> 408. OMB REPORT.

    (a) OMB Report on Surplus and Excess Property.--Not later than 6 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall submit a report on surplus and 
excess government property to Congress including--
            (1) the total value and amount of surplus and excess 
        government property, provided in the aggregate, as well as 
        totaled by agency; and
            (2) a list of the 100 most eligible surplus government 
        properties for sale and how much they are worth.

    (b) Data Sharing Among Federal Agencies.--Not later than 6 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall--
            (1) <<NOTE: Procedures.>> develop and implement procedures 
        requiring Federal agencies to share data on surplus and excess 
        Federal real property under the jurisdiction of each agency; and

[[Page 120 STAT. 2721]]

            (2) report to Congress on the development and implementation 
        of such procedures.

    Approved December 15, 2006.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 3699 (S. 1838):
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 109-316, Pt. 1 (Comm. on Government Reform), Pt. 2 
(Comm. on Transportation and Infrastructure), and Pt. 3 (Comm. on Energy 
and Commerce).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 152 (2006):
            Sept. 29, considered and passed House.
            Nov. 16, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>