[111th Congress Public Law 33]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1922]]

Public Law 111-33
111th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 To honor the achievements and contributions of Native Americans to the 
 United States, and for other purposes. <<NOTE: June 26, 2009 -  [H.J. 
                               Res. 40]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Native American 
Heritage Day Act of 2009.>> 

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Native American Heritage Day Act of 
2009''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) Native Americans are the descendants of the aboriginal, 
        indigenous, native people who were the original inhabitants of 
        and who governed the lands that now constitute the United 
        States;
            (2) Native Americans have volunteered to serve in the United 
        States Armed Forces and have served with valor in all of the 
        Nation's military actions from the Revolutionary War through the 
        present day, and in most of those actions, more Native Americans 
        per capita served in the Armed Forces than any other group of 
        Americans;
            (3) Native American tribal governments included the 
        fundamental principles of freedom of speech and separation of 
        governmental powers;
            (4) Native Americans have made distinct and significant 
        contributions to the United States and the rest of the world in 
        many fields, including agriculture, medicine, music, language, 
        and art, and Native Americans have distinguished themselves as 
        inventors, entrepreneurs, spiritual leaders, and scholars;
            (5) Native Americans should be recognized for their 
        contributions to the United States as local and national 
        leaders, artists, athletes, and scholars;
            (6) nationwide recognition of the contributions that Native 
        Americans have made to the fabric of American society will 
        afford an opportunity for all Americans to demonstrate their 
        respect and admiration of Native Americans for their important 
        contributions to the political, cultural, and economic life of 
        the United States;
            (7) nationwide recognition of the contributions that Native 
        Americans have made to the Nation will encourage self-esteem, 
        pride, and self-awareness in Native Americans of all ages;
            (8) designation of the Friday following Thanksgiving of each 
        year as Native American Heritage Day will underscore

[[Page 123 STAT. 1923]]

        the government-to-government relationship between the United 
        States and Native American governments;
            (9) designation of Native American Heritage Day will 
        encourage public elementary and secondary schools in the United 
        States to enhance understanding of Native Americans by providing 
        curricula and classroom instruction focusing on the achievements 
        and contributions of Native Americans to the Nation; and
            (10) the Friday immediately succeeding Thanksgiving Day of 
        each year would be an appropriate day to designate as Native 
        American Heritage Day.

SEC. 3. HONORING NATIVE AMERICAN HERITAGE IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Congress encourages the people of the United States, as well as 
Federal, State, and local governments, and interested groups and 
organizations to honor Native Americans, with activities relating to--
            (1) appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to 
        observe Native American Heritage Day;
            (2) the historical status of Native American tribal 
        governments as well as the present day status of Native 
        Americans;
            (3) the cultures, traditions, and languages of Native 
        Americans; and
            (4) the rich Native American cultural legacy that all 
        Americans enjoy today.

    Approved June 26, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 40:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            June 2, considered and passed House.
            June 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>