[111th Congress Public Law 156]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


Public Law 111-156
111th Congress

[[Page 124 STAT. 1114]]



                            Joint Resolution


 
 Recognizing and honoring the Blinded Veterans Association on its 65th 
         anniversary of representing blinded veterans and their 
           families. <<NOTE: Apr. 7, 2010 -  [H.J. Res. 80]>> 

Whereas, at 8:45 a.m. on March 28, 1945, 100 blinded members of the 
    Armed Forces who served in World War II formed the Blinded Veterans 
    Association at Avon ``Old Farms'' Army Convalescent Hospital in 
    Connecticut;

Whereas the founders of the Blinded Veterans Association were a cross-
    section of heroes and pioneers who not only shaped the rich history, 
    philosophy, and knowledge of education and rehabilitation of the 
    blind, but also provided insight into current and future challenges 
    facing the blind and engaged in continual advocacy efforts to ensure 
    that services for all blinded persons would be unique and 
    specialized;

Whereas, on March 28, 2010, the Blinded Veterans Association will mark 
    its 65th anniversary of dedication to blinded members of the Armed 
    Forces, veterans, and their families;

Whereas in 1946, General Omar Bradley, of the Veterans Administration, 
    appointed the Blinded Veterans Association as the first official 
    representative for blinded veterans for the filing of claims and 
    appeals to the Veterans Administration, making the Blinded Veterans 
    Association only the eighth veterans service organization to receive 
    such authorization;

Whereas the Blinded Veterans Association was originally incorporated in 
    New York State as a nonprofit association, and then moved to 
    Washington, DC, in 1947;

Whereas in 1958, the 58th Congress approved the Congressional Charter 
    for the Blinded Veterans Association;

Whereas from its early beginnings, the Blinded Veterans Association 
    encouraged the blinded veterans it served ``to take their rightful 
    place in the community with their fellow men and work with them 
    toward the creation of a peaceful world'', and it has continued to 
    advocate for the war-blinded to regain independence, confidence, and 
    self-esteem through rehabilitation and training; and

Whereas many people of the United States recognize March 28 of each year 
    as Blinded Veterans Day: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) expresses appreciation for the efforts of the Blinded 
        Veterans Association in improving the rehabilitation services,

[[Page 124 STAT. 1115]]

        education, and benefits for blinded veterans of the United 
        States;
            (2) supports the goals and ideals of Blinded Veterans Day; 
        and
            (3) calls upon the people of the United States to observe 
        Blinded Veterans Day with appropriate programs and activities.

    Approved April 7, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 80:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Mar. 22, 23, considered and passed House.
            Mar. 26, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>