[111th Congress Public Law 61]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1996]]

Public Law 111-61
111th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
 Recognizing the service, sacrifice, honor, and professionalism of the 
  Noncommissioned Officers of the United States Army. <<NOTE: Aug. 19, 
                        2009 -  [H.J. Res. 44]>> 

Whereas the Noncommissioned Officer ranks, namely corporals and 
    sergeants, date back more than 230 years in United States Army 
    history, beginning with the birth of the Continental Army in 1775 
    and highlighted in the westward expansion of the United States, the 
    Civil War, World War I, World War II, the Korean Conflict, the 
    Vietnam Conflict, the liberation of Kuwait, and the current Global 
    War on Terror;

Whereas Noncommissioned Officers are accomplished military professionals 
    who have combined civilian and military education opportunities to 
    become the Army's preeminent body of leadership;

Whereas Noncommissioned Officers are the ``backbone of the American 
    Army'' and are the standard keepers for the Army in the training, 
    leading, coaching, and mentoring of soldiers;

Whereas Noncommissioned Officers have provided invaluable service and 
    have made great sacrifices in the line of duty, a virtue held most 
    high, and they have continually proven their dedication and a 
    willingness to make great sacrifices on behalf of the United States;

Whereas Noncommissioned Officers recognize their role in training young 
    soldiers to become future leaders, and they also recognize that an 
    important part of their job is caring and looking out for the 
    welfare of junior enlisted members and their families;

Whereas Noncommissioned Officers are the ``eyes and ears'' of the 
    commander, and have a well-earned reputation for having operational 
    and strategic awareness to interpret and issue orders as necessary 
    within their duties and in the absence of commissioned officers; and

Whereas the United States Army is an institution rich in cultural, 
    ethnic, and gender diversity, and Noncommissioned Officers are 
    outstanding role models for all Americans and are exemplary 
    representatives of the moral character and strength of the United 
    States: Now, therefore, be it

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled, That Congress--
            (1) recognizes the service, sacrifice, honor, and 
        professionalism of the Noncommissioned Officers of the United 
        States Army;

[[Page 123 STAT. 1997]]

            (2) expresses its deepest appreciation to the 
        Noncommissioned Officers of the Army who serve or have served in 
        defense of the United States; and
            (3) encourages the people of the United States to recognize, 
        commemorate, and honor the role and contribution of 
        Noncommissioned Officers, past and present, in defense of the 
        United States.

    Approved August 19, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.J. Res. 44:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            July 27, 28, considered and passed House.
            Aug. 4, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>