[111th Congress Public Law 25]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 1767]]

Public Law 111-25
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To establish the Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission. <<NOTE: June 2, 
                          2009 -  [H.R. 131]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Ronald Reagan 
Centennial Commission Act. 36 USC 101 note prec.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Ronald Reagan Centennial Commission 
Act''.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is established a commission to be known as the ``Ronald Reagan 
Centennial Commission'' (in this Act referred to as the ``Commission'').
SEC. 3. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.

    The Commission shall--
            (1) plan, develop, and carry out such activities as the 
        Commission considers fitting and proper to honor Ronald Reagan 
        on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of his birth;
            (2) provide advice and assistance to Federal, State, and 
        local governmental agencies, as well as civic groups to carry 
        out activities to honor Ronald Reagan on the occasion of the 
        100th anniversary of his birth;
            (3) develop activities that may be carried out by the 
        Federal Government to determine whether the activities are 
        fitting and proper to honor Ronald Reagan on the occasion of the 
        100th anniversary of his birth; and
            (4) submit <<NOTE: Reports.>>  to the President and Congress 
        reports pursuant to section 7.
SEC. 4. MEMBERSHIP.

    (a) Number and Appointment.--The Commission shall be composed of 11 
members as follows:
            (1) The Secretary of the Interior.
            (2) Four <<NOTE: President.>>  members appointed by the 
        President after considering the recommendations of the Board of 
        Trustees of the Ronald Reagan Foundation.
            (3) Two Members of the House of Representatives appointed by 
        the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (4) One Member of the House of Representatives appointed by 
        the minority leader of the House of Representatives.
            (5) Two Members of the Senate appointed by the majority 
        leader of the Senate.
            (6) One Member of the Senate appointed by the minority 
        leader of the Senate.

[[Page 123 STAT. 1768]]

    (b) Ex Officio Member.--The Archivist of the United States shall 
serve in an ex officio capacity on the Commission to provide advice and 
information to the Commission.
    (c) Terms.--Each member shall be appointed for the life of the 
Commission.
    (d) Deadline for Appointment.--All members of the Commission shall 
be appointed not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (e) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall--
            (1) not affect the powers of the Commission; and
            (2) be filled in the manner in which the original 
        appointment was made.

    (f) Rates of Pay.--Members shall not receive compensation for the 
performance of their duties on behalf of the Commission.
    (g) Travel Expenses.--Each member of the Commission shall be 
reimbursed for travel and per diem in lieu of subsistence expenses 
during the performance of duties of the Commission while away from home 
or his or her regular place of business, in accordance with applicable 
provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (h) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum to conduct business, but two or more members may 
hold hearings.
    (i) Chairperson.--The chairperson of the Commission shall be elected 
by a majority vote of the members of the Commission.
SEC. 5. DIRECTOR AND STAFF OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Director and Staff.--The Commission shall appoint an executive 
director and such other additional personnel as are necessary to enable 
the Commission to perform its duties.
    (b) Applicability of Certain Civil Service Laws.--The executive 
director and staff of the Commission may be appointed without regard to 
the provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments in 
the competitive service, and may be paid without regard to the 
provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title 
relating to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that 
the rate of pay for the executive director and other staff may not 
exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title.
    (c) Detail of Federal Employees.--Upon request of the Commission, 
the Secretary of the Interior or the Archivist of the United States may 
detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department 
or agency to the Commission to assist it in carrying out its duties 
under this Act.
    (d) Experts and Consultants.--The Commission may procure such 
temporary and intermittent services as are necessary to enable the 
Commission to perform its duties.
    (e) Volunteer and Uncompensated Services.--Notwithstanding section 
1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Commission may accept and use 
voluntary and uncompensated services as the Commission determines 
necessary.
SEC. 6. POWERS OF COMMISSION.

    (a) Hearings.--The Commission may, for the purpose of carrying out 
this Act, hold hearings, sit and act at times and places, take 
testimony, and receive evidence as the Commission considers appropriate.

[[Page 123 STAT. 1769]]

    (b) Mails.--The Commission may use the United States mails in the 
same manner and under the same conditions as other departments and 
agencies of the United States.
    (c) Obtaining Official Data.--The Commission may secure directly 
from any department or agency of the United States information necessary 
to enable it to carry out its duties under this Act. Upon request of the 
chairperson of the Commission, the head of that department or agency 
shall furnish that information to the Commission.
    (d) Gifts, Bequests, Devises.--The Commission may solicit, accept, 
use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money, services, or 
property, both real and personal, for the purpose of aiding or 
facilitating its work.
    (e) Available Space.--Upon the request of the Commission, the 
Administrator of General Services shall make available nationwide to the 
Commission, at a normal rental rate for Federal agencies, such 
assistance and facilities as may be necessary for the Commission to 
carry out its duties under this Act.
    (f) Contract Authority.--The Commission may enter into contracts 
with and compensate government and private agencies or persons to enable 
the Commission to discharge its duties under this Act.
SEC. 7. REPORTS.

    (a) Annual Reports.--The Commission shall submit to the President 
and the Congress annual reports on the revenue and expenditures of the 
Commission, including a list of each gift, bequest, or devise to the 
Commission with a value of more than $250, together with the identity of 
the donor of each gift, bequest, or devise.
    (b) Interim Reports.--The Commission may submit to the President and 
Congress interim reports as the Commission considers appropriate.
    (c) Final Report.--Not later than April 30, 2011, the Commission 
shall submit a final report to the President and the Congress 
containing--
            (1) a summary of the activities of the Commission;
            (2) a final accounting of funds received and expended by the 
        Commission; and
            (3) the findings, conclusions, and final recommendations of 
        the Commission.
SEC. 8. TERMINATION.

    The Commission <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  may terminate on such date as 
the Commission may determine after it submits its final report pursuant 
to section 7(c), but not later than May 30, 2011.
SEC. 9. ANNUAL AUDIT.

    The Inspector <<NOTE: Public information.>>  General of the 
Department of the Interior may perform an audit of the Commission, shall 
make the results of any audit performed available to the public, and 
shall transmit such results to the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.

[[Page 123 STAT. 1770]]

SEC. 10. PROHIBITION ON OBLIGATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS.

    No Federal funds may be obligated to carry out this Act.

    Approved June 2, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 131:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            Mar. 9, considered and passed House.
            May 19, considered and passed Senate.
DAILY COMPILATION OF PRESIDENTIAL DOCUMENTS (2009):
            June 2, Presidential remarks and statement.

                                  <all>