[111th Congress Public Law 370]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 4069]]

Public Law 111-370
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 To direct the Administrator of General Services to convey a parcel of 
 real property in Houston, Texas, to the Military Museum of Texas, and 
       for other purposes. <<NOTE: Jan. 4, 2011 -  [H.R. 6510]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONVEYANCE OF REAL PROPERTY IN HOUSTON, TEXAS.

    (a) Authority To Convey.--The Administrator of General Services 
shall convey, at the market value determined under subsection (b), to 
the Military Museum of Texas all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to the parcel of real property located at 8611 
Wallisville Road in Houston, Texas, as described in subsection (c).
    (b) Determination of Market Value.--For purposes of subsection (a), 
the market value of the real property shall be determined by an 
independent appraisal based on the current use of the property. The 
appraisal shall be commissioned by the Administrator and paid for by the 
Military Museum of Texas.
    (c) Property Description.--The real property to be conveyed is the 
3.673 acres of land in Lot 3 of Moers Subdivision in the W.M. Black 
Survey, Abstract 114, Harris County, Texas, more particularly described 
as follows:
            (1) Beginning at an iron rod located at the intersection of 
        the north line of Wallisville Road presently being 100' wide 
        with the southeast line of U.S. Highway 90 presently being 150' 
        in width.
            (2) Thence north 38/13' east 1068.61' along the southeast 
        line of U.S. Highway 90 to an iron rod for the point of 
        beginning.
            (3) Thence south 01/15'43'' east 713.5' along a fence to a 
        galvanized iron fence corner in the north line of Wallisville 
        Road.
            (4) Thence south 79/26' west, 408' more or less parallel to 
        the east boundary line to a point in the southeast line of U.S. 
        Highway 90.
            (5) Thence north 38/13' east 460' more or less along the 
        southeast line of U.S. Highway 90 to the point of beginning.

    (d) Structures and Improvements.--The conveyance shall include the 
improvements, structures, and fixtures located on the real property 
conveyed and related personal property.
    (e) Use Restriction.--
            (1) <<NOTE: Time period.>>  In general.--As a condition of 
        the conveyance, the Military Museum of Texas shall use and 
        maintain the real property conveyed, for a minimum period of 30 
        years, in a manner consistent with the use of the property at 
        the time of the conveyance.

[[Page 124 STAT. 4070]]

            (2) Use restriction.--Except as provided by paragraph (3), 
        if the real property conveyed ceases to be used or maintained as 
        required by paragraph (1), all or any portion of the property 
        shall, in its then existing condition and at the option of the 
        Administrator, revert to the United States.
            (3) Abrogation of use restriction.--
                    (A) In general.--The Military Museum of Texas may 
                seek abrogation of the use restriction set forth in 
                paragraph (2) by obtaining the advance written consent 
                of the Administrator, and by payment to the United 
                States of the fair market value of the real property to 
                be released from the restriction.
                    (B) Determination of fair market value.--For 
                purposes of subparagraph (A), the fair market value of 
                the real property shall be determined by an independent 
                appraisal based on the highest and best use of the 
                property as of the effective date of the abrogation. The 
                appraisal shall be commissioned by the Administrator and 
                paid for by the Military Museum of Texas.

    (f) Compliance.--
            (1) Reports.--As a condition of the conveyance, the Military 
        Museum of Texas shall submit to the Administrator, not later 
        than one year after the date of the conveyance and annually 
        thereafter for a period of 30 years, a report on the Military 
        Museum's use and maintenance of the real property conveyed, and 
        any other reports required by the Administrator to evidence the 
        Military Museum's continuous use of the property in accordance 
        with subsection (d).
            (2) <<NOTE: Deadlines. Time period.>>  Inspections.--Not 
        later than one year after the date of conveyance and every 5 
        years thereafter for a period of 30 years, the Administrator 
        shall conduct inspections of the real property conveyed to 
        confirm information provided in the reports submitted under 
        paragraph (1).

    (g) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Administrator may require 
the conveyance to be subject to such additional terms and conditions as 
the Administrator considers appropriate and necessary to protect the 
interests of the United States.
    (h) Costs of Conveyance.--The Military Museum of Texas shall be 
responsible for all reasonable and necessary costs associated with the 
conveyance, including real estate transaction and environmental 
documentation costs.
    (i) Relationship to Environmental Law.--Nothing in this section may 
be construed to affect or limit the application of or obligation to 
comply with any environmental law, including section

[[Page 124 STAT. 4071]]

120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).

    Approved January 4, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 6510:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Dec. 14, considered and passed House.
            Dec. 18, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>