[111th Congress Public Law 65]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 123 STAT. 2003]]

Public Law 111-65
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the award of a gold medal on behalf of Congress to Arnold 
    Palmer in recognition of his service to the Nation in promoting 
      excellence and good sportsmanship in golf. <<NOTE: Sept. 30, 
                         2009 -  [H.R. 1243]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: 31 USC 5111 
note.>> 
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Arnold Palmer is a world famous golf professional, a 
        highly successful business executive, a prominent advertising 
        spokesman, a devoted husband, father, and grandfather, and a man 
        with a common touch that has made him one of the most popular 
        and accessible public figures in history.
            (2) Arnold Palmer amassed 92 championships in professional 
        competition of national or international stature by the end of 
        1993, 62 of which came on the Professional Golf Association 
        Tour.
            (3) Arnold Palmer's magnetic personality and unfailing sense 
        of kindness and thoughtfulness have endeared him to millions 
        throughout the world.
            (4) Arnold Palmer has been the recipient of countless honors 
        including virtually every national award in golf and both the 
        Hickok Athlete of the Year and Sports Illustrated's Sportsman of 
        the Year awards, and he was chosen Athlete of the Decade for the 
        1960s in a national Associated Press poll.
            (5) Arnold Palmer has received numerous honors outside the 
        world of sports, including the Patriot Award of the 
        Congressional Medal of Honor Society, the Golden Plate award of 
        the American Academy of Achievement, and the United States Navy 
        Memorial Lone Sailor Award.
            (6) Arnold Palmer was honored by the United States Golf 
        Association with the opening of the Arnold Palmer Center for 
        Golf History on June 3rd 2008.
            (7) Arnold Palmer served his country for 3 years in the 
        United States Coast Guard and was among those chosen to address 
        the Joint Session of Congress on the occasion of the 100th 
        anniversary of the birth of President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
            (8) Arnold Palmer served as Honorary National Chairman of 
        the March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation for 20 years and 
        played a major role in the fund-raising drive that led to the 
        creation of the Arnold Palmer Hospital for Children

[[Page 123 STAT. 2004]]

        in Orlando and the Latrobe Area Hospital Charitable Foundation 
        in his Western Pennsylvania hometown.
            (9) Arnold Palmer remains active in tournament golf, 
        although he retired from competition in the major championships 
        on April 14, 2002, when he played the last of his 48 Masters 
        Tournaments, where he was given an emotional standing ovation as 
        he finished the 18th hole.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL GOLD MEDAL.

    (a) Presentation Authorized.--The Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall make 
appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the 
Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Arnold Palmer in 
recognition of his service to the Nation in promoting excellence and 
good sportsmanship.
    (b) Design and Striking.--For the purpose of the presentation 
referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions to 
be determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 3. DUPLICATE MEDALS.

    Under such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may 
prescribe, the Secretary may strike duplicate medals in bronze of the 
gold medal struck pursuant to section 2 and sell such duplicate medals 
at a price sufficient to cover the costs of the duplicate medals 
(including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses) 
and the cost of the gold medal.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL MEDALS.

    The medals struck under this Act are national medals for purposes of 
chapter 51 of title 31, United States Code.
SEC. 5. FUNDING.

    (a) Authorization of Charges.--There is authorized to be charged 
against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund an amount not to 
exceed $30,000 to pay for the cost of the medals authorized by this Act.
    (b) Proceeds of Sale.--Amounts received from the sale of duplicate 
bronze medals under section 3 shall be deposited in the United States 
Mint Public Enterprise Fund.

    Approved September 30, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 1243:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            Apr. 28, considered and passed House.
            Sept. 9, considered and passed Senate.

                                  <all>