[111th Congress Public Law 206]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 2239]]

 SHASTA-TRINITY NATIONAL FOREST ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION TRANSFER ACT

[[Page 124 STAT. 2240]]

Public Law 111-206
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To interchange the administrative jurisdiction of certain Federal lands 
 between the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management, and for 
         other purposes. <<NOTE: July 27, 2010 -  [H.R. 689]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Shasta-Trinity 
National Forest Administrative Jurisdiction Transfer Act.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Shasta-Trinity National Forest 
Administrative Jurisdiction Transfer Act''.
SEC. 2. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION TO THE BUREAU OF 
                    LAND MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Administrative jurisdiction over the Federal land 
described in subsection (b) is transferred from the Secretary of 
Agriculture to the Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Description of Land.--The Federal land referred to in subsection 
(a) is the land within the Shasta-Trinity National Forest in California, 
Mount Diablo Meridian, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Shasta-Trinity Administrative Jurisdiction Transfer: Transfer from 
Forest Service to BLM, Map 1'' and dated November 23, 2009.
    (c) Management and Status of Transferred Land.--The Federal land 
described in subsection (b) shall be administered in accordance with--
            (1) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (2) any other applicable law (including regulations).
SEC. 3. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION TO THE FOREST 
                    SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Administrative jurisdiction over the Federal land 
described in subsection (b) is transferred from the Secretary of the 
Interior to the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (b) Description of Land.--The Federal land referred to in subsection 
(a) is the land administered by the Director of the Bureau of Land 
Management in the Mount Diablo Meridian, California, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Shasta-Trinity Administrative 
Jurisdiction Transfer: Transfer from BLM to Forest Service, Map 2'' and 
dated November 23, 2009.
    (c) Management and Status of Transferred Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Federal land described in subsection 
        (b) shall be--
                    (A) withdrawn from the public domain;
                    (B) reserved for administration as part of the 
                Shasta-Trinity National Forest; and

[[Page 124 STAT. 2241]]

                    (C) managed in accordance with the laws (including 
                the regulations) generally applicable to the National 
                Forest System.
            (2) Wilderness administration.--The land transferred to the 
        Secretary of Agriculture under subsection (a) that is within the 
        Trinity Alps Wilderness shall--
                    (A) not affect the wilderness status of the 
                transferred land; and
                    (B) be administered in accordance with--
                          (i) this section;
                          (ii) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                      seq.); and
                          (iii) the California Wilderness Act of 1984 
                      (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 98-425).
SEC. 4. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.

    (a) Corrections.--
            (1) Minor adjustments.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the 
        Secretary of the Interior may, by mutual agreement, make minor 
        corrections and adjustments to the transfers under this Act to 
        facilitate land management, including corrections and 
        adjustments to any applicable surveys.
            (2) Publications.--Any <<NOTE: Effective 
        date. Notice. Federal Register, publication.>> corrections or 
        adjustments made under subsection (a) shall be effective on the 
        date of publication of a notice of the corrections or 
        adjustments in the Federal Register.

    (b) Hazardous Substances.--
            (1) Notice.--The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary 
        of the Interior shall, with respect to the land described in 
        sections 2(b) and 3(b), respectively--
                    (A) identify any known sites containing hazardous 
                substances; and
                    (B) provide to the head of the Federal agency to 
                which the land is being transferred notice of any sites 
                identified under subparagraph (A).
            (2) Cleanup obligations.--To the same extent as on the day 
        before the date of enactment of this Act, with respect to any 
        Federal liability--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture shall remain 
                responsible for any cleanup of hazardous substances on 
                the Federal land described in section 2(b); and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior shall remain 
                responsible for any cleanup of hazardous substances on 
                the Federal land described in section 3(b).

    (c) Effect on Existing Rights and Authorizations.--Nothing in this 
Act affects--
            (1) any valid existing rights; or
            (2) the validity or term and conditions of any existing 
        withdrawal, right-of-way, easement, lease, license, or permit on 
        the land to which administrative jurisdiction is transferred 
        under this Act, except that beginning on the date of enactment 
        of this Act, the head of the agency to which administrative 
        jurisdiction over the land is transferred shall be responsible 
        for administering the interests or authorizations (including

[[Page 124 STAT. 2242]]

        reissuing the interests or authorizations in accordance with 
        applicable law).

    Approved July 27, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--H.R. 689:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSE REPORTS: No. 111-108 (Comm. on Natural Resources).
SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-145 (Comm. on Energy and Natural Resources).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD:
                                                        Vol. 155 (2009):
                                    June 2, considered and passed House.
                                                        Vol. 156 (2010):
                                    May 7, considered and passed Senate, 
                                        amended.
                                    July 13, House concurred in Senate 
                                        amendment.

                                  <all>