[111th Congress Public Law 375]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 4099]]

                    NATIONAL ALZHEIMER'S PROJECT ACT

[[Page 124 STAT. 4100]]

Public Law 111-375
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
     To establish the National Alzheimer's Project. <<NOTE: Jan. 4, 
                          2011 -  [S. 3036]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: National 
Alzheimer's Project Act.>> 
SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 42 USC 11201 note.>>  SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``National Alzheimer's Project Act''.
SEC. 2. <<NOTE: 42 USC 11225.>>  THE NATIONAL ALZHEIMER'S PROJECT.

    (a) Definition of Alzheimer's.--In this Act, the term 
``Alzheimer's'' means Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.
    (b) Establishment.--There is established in the Office of the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services the National Alzheimer's Project 
(referred to in this Act as the ``Project'').
    (c) Purpose of the Project.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Secretary's designee, shall--
            (1) be responsible for the creation and maintenance of an 
        integrated national plan to overcome Alzheimer's;
            (2) provide information and coordination of Alzheimer's 
        research and services across all Federal agencies;
            (3) accelerate the development of treatments that would 
        prevent, halt, or reverse the course of Alzheimer's;
            (4) improve the--
                    (A) early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease; and
                    (B) coordination of the care and treatment of 
                citizens with Alzheimer's;
            (5) ensure the inclusion of ethnic and racial populations at 
        higher risk for Alzheimer's or least likely to receive care, in 
        clinical, research, and service efforts with the purpose of 
        decreasing health disparities in Alzheimer's; and
            (6) coordinate with international bodies to integrate and 
        inform the fight against Alzheimer's globally.

    (d) Duties of the Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, 
        or the Secretary's designee, shall--
                    (A) oversee the creation and updating of the 
                national plan described in paragraph (2); and
                    (B) use discretionary authority to evaluate all 
                Federal programs around Alzheimer's, including budget 
                requests and approvals.
            (2) National plan. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> --The Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services, or the Secretary's designee, shall 
        carry out an annual assessment of the Nation's progress in 
        preparing for the escalating burden of Alzheimer's, including 
        both implementation

[[Page 124 STAT. 4101]]

        steps and recommendations for priority actions based on the 
        assessment.

    (e) <<NOTE: Establishment.>>  Advisory Council.--
            (1) In general.--There is established an Advisory Council on 
        Alzheimer's Research, Care, and Services (referred to in this 
        Act as the ``Advisory Council'').
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Federal members.--The Advisory Council shall be 
                comprised of the following experts:
                          (i) A designee of the Centers for Disease 
                      Control and Prevention.
                          (ii) A designee of the Administration on 
                      Aging.
                          (iii) A designee of the Centers for Medicare & 
                      Medicaid Services.
                          (iv) A designee of the Indian Health Service.
                          (v) A designee of the Office of the Director 
                      of the National Institutes of Health.
                          (vi) The Surgeon General.
                          (vii) A designee of the National Science 
                      Foundation.
                          (viii) A designee of the Department of 
                      Veterans Affairs.
                          (ix) A designee of the Food and Drug 
                      Administration.
                          (x) A designee of the Agency for Healthcare 
                      Research and Quality.
                    (B) Non-federal members.--In addition to the members 
                outlined in subparagraph (A), the Advisory Council shall 
                include 12 expert members from outside the Federal 
                Government, which shall include--
                          (i) 2 Alzheimer's patient advocates;
                          (ii) 2 Alzheimer's caregivers;
                          (iii) 2 health care providers;
                          (iv) 2 representatives of State health 
                      departments;
                          (v) 2 researchers with Alzheimer's-related 
                      expertise in basic, translational, clinical, or 
                      drug development science; and
                          (vi) 2 voluntary health association 
                      representatives, including a national Alzheimer's 
                      disease organization that has demonstrated 
                      experience in research, care, and patient 
                      services, and a State-based advocacy organization 
                      that provides services to families and 
                      professionals, including information and referral, 
                      support groups, care consultation, education, and 
                      safety services.
            (3) Meetings. <<NOTE: Deadline.>> --The Advisory Council 
        shall meet quarterly and such meetings shall be open to the 
        public.
            (4) Advice.--The Advisory Council shall advise the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services, or the Secretary's designee.
            (5) Annual report.--The Advisory Council shall provide to 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services, or the Secretary's 
        designee and Congress--
                    (A) an initial evaluation of all federally funded 
                efforts in Alzheimer's research, clinical care, and 
                institutional-, home-, and community-based programs and 
                their outcomes;

[[Page 124 STAT. 4102]]

                    (B) initial recommendations for priority actions to 
                expand, eliminate, coordinate, or condense programs 
                based on the program's performance, mission, and 
                purpose;
                    (C) initial recommendations to--
                          (i) reduce the financial impact of Alzheimer's 
                      on--
                                    (I) Medicare and other federally 
                                funded programs; and
                                    (II) families living with 
                                Alzheimer's disease; and
                          (ii) improve health outcomes; and
                    (D) annually thereafter, an evaluation of the 
                implementation, including outcomes, of the 
                recommendations, including priorities if necessary, 
                through an updated national plan under subsection 
                (d)(2).
            (6) Termination.--The Advisory Council shall terminate on 
        December 31, 2025.

    (f) Data Sharing.--Agencies both within the Department of Health and 
Human Services and outside of the Department that have data relating to 
Alzheimer's shall share such data with the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, or the Secretary's designee, to enable the Secretary, or the 
Secretary's designee, to complete the report described in subsection 
(g).
    (g) Annual Report.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, or 
the Secretary's designee, shall submit to Congress--
            (1) an annual report that includes an evaluation of all 
        federally funded efforts in Alzheimer's research, clinical care, 
        and institutional-, home-, and community-based programs and 
        their outcomes;
            (2) an evaluation of all federally funded programs based on 
        program performance, mission, and purpose related to Alzheimer's 
        disease;
            (3) recommendations for--
                    (A) priority actions based on the evaluation 
                conducted by the Secretary and the Advisory Council to--
                          (i) reduce the financial impact of Alzheimer's 
                      on--
                                    (I) Medicare and other federally 
                                funded programs; and
                                    (II) families living with 
                                Alzheimer's disease; and
                          (ii) improve health outcomes;
                    (B) implementation steps; and
                    (C) priority actions to improve the prevention, 
                diagnosis, treatment, care, institutional-, home-, and 
                community-based programs of Alzheimer's disease for 
                individuals with Alzheimer's disease and their 
                caregivers; and
            (4) an annually updated national plan.

[[Page 124 STAT. 4103]]

    (h) Sunset.--The Project shall expire on December 31, 2025.

    Approved January 4, 2011.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 3036:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Dec. 8, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 15, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>