[111th Congress Public Law 308]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


Public Law 111-308
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
To provide for the training of Federal building personnel, and for other 
             purposes. <<NOTE: Dec. 14, 2010 -  [S. 3250]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, <<NOTE: Federal 
Buildings Personnel Training Act of 2010. 40 USC 581 note.>> 
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Federal Buildings Personnel Training 
Act of 2010''.
SEC. 2. TRAINING OF FEDERAL BUILDING PERSONNEL.

    (a) Identification of Core Competencies.--
Not <<NOTE: Deadlines. Notice. Comment period.>>  later than 18 months 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
Administrator of General Services, in consultation with representatives 
of relevant professional societies, industry associations, and 
apprenticeship training providers, and after providing notice and an 
opportunity for comment, shall identify the core competencies necessary 
for Federal personnel performing building operations and maintenance, 
energy management, safety, and design functions to comply with 
requirements under Federal law. The core competencies identified shall 
include competencies relating to building operations and maintenance, 
energy management, sustainability, water efficiency, safety (including 
electrical safety), and building performance measures.

    (b) Designation of Relevant Courses, Certifications, Degrees, 
Licenses, and Registrations.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
representatives of relevant professional societies, industry 
associations, and apprenticeship training providers, shall identify a 
course, certification, degree, license, or registration to demonstrate 
each core competency, and for ongoing training with respect to each core 
competency, identified for a category of personnel specified in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Identified Competencies.--An individual shall demonstrate each 
core competency identified by the Administrator under subsection (a) for 
the category of personnel that includes such 
individual. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  An individual shall demonstrate each 
core competency through the means identified under subsection (b) not 
later than one year after the date on which such core competency is 
identified under subsection (a) or, if the date of hire of such 
individual occurs after the date of such identification, not later than 
one year after such date of hire. In the case of an individual hired for 
an employment period not to exceed one year, such individual shall 
demonstrate each core competency at the start of the employment period.

    (d) Continuing Education.--The Administrator, in consultation with 
representatives of relevant professional societies, industry 
associations, and apprenticeship training providers, shall develop or 
identify comprehensive continuing education courses to ensure the 
operation of Federal buildings in accordance with industry best 
practices and standards.
    (e) Curriculum With Respect to Facility Management and Operation of 
High-Performance Buildings.--Not <<NOTE: Deadlines.>>  later than 18 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, 
the Administrator, acting through the head of the Office of Federal 
High-Performance Green Buildings, and the Secretary of Energy, acting 
through the head of the Office of Commercial High-Performance Green 
Buildings, in consultation with the heads of other appropriate Federal 
departments and agencies and representatives of relevant professional 
societies, industry associations, and apprenticeship training providers, 
shall develop a recommended curriculum relating to facility management 
and the operation of high-performance buildings.

    (f) Applicability of This Section to Functions Performed Under 
Contract.--Training <<NOTE: Certification.>>  requirements under this 
section shall apply to non-Federal personnel performing building 
operations and maintenance, energy management, safety, and design 
functions under a contract with a Federal department or agency. A 
contractor shall provide training to, and certify the demonstration of 
core competencies for, non-Federal personnel in a manner that is 
approved by the Administrator.

    Approved December 14, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 3250:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

SENATE REPORTS: No. 111-212 (Comm. on Environment and Public Works).
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            July 20, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 1, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>