[111th Congress Public Law 339]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page 124 STAT. 3591]]

Public Law 111-339
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
       To require reports on the management of Arlington National 
             Cemetery. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 2010 -  [S. 3860]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. REPORTS ON MANAGEMENT OF ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.

    (a) Report on Gravesite Discrepancies.--Not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army 
shall submit to the committees of Congress specified in subsection (c) a 
report setting forth an accounting of the gravesites at Arlington 
National Cemetery, Virginia. The accounting shall--
            (1) specify whether gravesite locations at Arlington 
        National Cemetery are correctly identified, labeled, and 
        occupied; and
            (2) set forth a plan of action, including the resources 
        required and a proposed schedule, to implement remedial actions 
        to address deficiencies identified pursuant to the accounting.

    (b) GAO Review of Management and Oversight of Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall submit to the committees of Congress specified in 
        subsection (c) a report on the management and oversight of 
        contracts at Arlington National Cemetery.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number, dollar amount, and duration of 
                current contracts at Arlington National Cemetery over 
                the simplified acquisition threshold.
                    (B) The number, dollar amount, and duration of 
                current contracts for automation of burial operations at 
                Arlington National Cemetery, including contracts 
                relating to the Total Cemetery Management System (TCMS), 
                the Geographic Information System (GIS), the Interment 
                Scheduling System (ISS), the Interment Management System 
                (IMS), and new or modified versions of the Burial 
                Operations Support System (BOSS) of the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs.
                    (C) An assessment of the management and oversight by 
                the Executive Director of the Army National Cemeteries 
                Program of the contracts covered by subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B), including the use of and actions taken for that

[[Page 124 STAT. 3592]]

                purpose by the Corps of Engineers and the National 
                Capital Region Contracting Center of the Army 
                Contracting Command.
                    (D) An assessment of the actions taken by the 
                Executive Director of the Army National Cemeteries 
                Program in response to the findings and recommendations 
                of the Inspector General of the Army in the report 
                entitled ``Report of Investigation and Special 
                Inspection of Arlington National Cemetery Final Report 
                (Case 10-04)'', dated June 9, 2010.
                    (E) An assessment of the implementation of the 
                following:
                          (i) Army Directive 2010-04 on Enhancing the 
                      Operations and Oversight of the Army National 
                      Cemeteries Program, dated June 10, 2010, 
                      including, without limitation, an evaluation of 
                      the sufficiency of all contract management and 
                      oversight procedures, current and planned 
                      information and technology systems, applications, 
                      and contracts, current organizational structure 
                      and manpower, and compliance with and execution of 
                      all plans, reviews, studies, evaluations, and 
                      requirements specified in the Army Directive.
                          (ii) The recommendations and actions proposed 
                      by the Army National Cemeteries Advisory 
                      Commission with respect to Arlington National 
                      Cemetery.
                    (F) An assessment of the adequacy of current 
                practices at Arlington National Cemetery to provide 
                information, outreach, and support to families of 
                individuals buried at Arlington National Cemetery 
                regarding procedures to detect and correct current 
                errors in burials at Arlington National Cemetery.
                    (G) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of transferring jurisdiction of Arlington 
                National Cemetery and the United States Soldiers' and 
                Airmen's Home National Cemetery to the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs, and an assessment of the feasibility 
                and advisability of the sharing of jurisdiction of such 
                facilities between the Department of Defense and the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (3) Simplified acquisition threshold defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``simplified acquisition threshold'' has 
        the meaning provided that term in section 4 of the Office of 
        Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403).

    (c) Specified Committees of Congress.--The committees of Congress 
specified in this subsection are--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives.

    (d) Reports on Implementation of Army Directive on Army National 
Cemeteries Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress reports on execution of 
        and compliance with Army Directive 2010-04 on Enhancing the 
        Operations and Oversight of the Army National Cemeteries

[[Page 124 STAT. 3593]]

        Program, dated June 10, 2010. Each such report shall include, 
        for the preceding 270 days or year (as applicable), a 
        description and assessment of the following:
                    (A) Execution of and compliance with every section 
                of the Army Directive for Arlington National Cemetery, 
                including, without limitation, an evaluation of the 
                sufficiency of all contract management and oversight 
                procedures, current and planned information and 
                technology systems, applications, and contracts, current 
                organizational structure and manpower, and compliance 
                with and execution of all plans, reviews, studies, 
                evaluations, and requirements specified in the Army 
                Directive.
                    (B) The adequacy of current practices at Arlington 
                National Cemetery to provide information, outreach, and 
                support to families of those individuals buried at 
                Arlington National Cemetery regarding procedures to 
                detect and correct current errors in burials at 
                Arlington National Cemetery.
            (2) Period and frequency of submittal.--A report required by 
        paragraph (1) shall be submitted not later than 270 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, and every year thereafter 
        for the next 2 years.

    Approved December 22, 2010.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S. 3860:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 156 (2010):
            Dec. 4, considered and passed Senate.
            Dec. 15, 16, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>