[111th Congress Private Law 1]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]



[[Page ]]

Private Law 111-1
111th Congress

                                 An Act


 
 For the relief of Shigeru Yamada. <<NOTE: Dec. 22, 2010 -  [S. 4010]>> 

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. PERMANENT RESIDENT STATUS FOR SHIGERU YAMADA.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of section 
201 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1151), Shigeru 
Yamada shall be eligible for issuance of an immigrant visa or for 
adjustment of status to that of an alien lawfully admitted for permanent 
residence upon filing an application for issuance of an immigrant visa 
under section 204 of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1154) or for adjustment of 
status to lawful permanent resident.
    (b) Adjustment of Status.--If Shigeru Yamada enters the United 
States before the filing deadline specified in subsection (c), Shigeru 
Yamada shall be considered to have entered and remained lawfully and 
shall be eligible for adjustment of status under section 245 of the 
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1255) as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Application and Payment of Fees.--Subsections (a) and (b) shall 
apply only if the application for issuance of an immigrant visa or the 
application for adjustment of status is filed with appropriate fees not 
later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reduction of Immigrant Visa Numbers.--Upon the granting of an 
immigrant visa or permanent residence to Shigeru Yamada, the Secretary 
of State shall instruct the proper officer to reduce by 1, during the 
current or subsequent fiscal year, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the country of birth of Shigeru 
Yamada under section 203(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1153(a)) or, if applicable, the total number of immigrant visas 
that are made available to natives of the country of birth of Shigeru 
Yamada under section 202(e) of that Act (8 U.S.C. 1152(e)).
    (e) PAYGO.--The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of 
complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, shall be 
determined by reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary 
Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in 
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget

[[Page ]]

Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the 
vote on passage.

    Approved December 22, 2010.