[111th Congress Public Law 1]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]


[DOCID: f:publ001.111]
Public Law 111-1
111th Congress

                            Joint Resolution


 
  Ensuring that the compensation and other emoluments attached to the 
 office of Secretary of the Interior are those which were in effect on 
       January 1, 2005. <<NOTE: Jan. 16, 2009 -  [S.J. Res. 3]>> 

    Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United 
States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. <<NOTE: 5 USC 5312 note.>>  COMPENSATION AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS 
            ATTACHED TO THE OFFICE OF SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.

    (a) In General.--The compensation and other emoluments attached to 
the office of Secretary of the Interior shall be those in effect January 
1, 2005, notwithstanding any increase in such compensation or emoluments 
after that date under any provision of law, or provision which has the 
force and effect of law, that is enacted or becomes effective during the 
period beginning at noon of January 3, 2005, and ending at noon of 
January 3, 2011.
    (b) Civil Action and Appeal.--
            (1) Jurisdiction.--Any person aggrieved by an action of the 
        Secretary of the Interior may bring a civil action in the United 
        States District Court for the District of Columbia to contest 
        the constitutionality of the appointment and continuance in 
        office of the Secretary of the Interior on the ground that such 
        appointment and continuance in office is in violation of article 
        I, section 6, clause 2, of the Constitution. The United States 
        District Court for the District of Columbia shall have exclusive 
        jurisdiction over such a civil action, without regard to the sum 
        or value of the matter in controversy.
            (2) Three judge panel.--Any claim challenging the 
        constitutionality of the appointment and continuance in office 
        of the Secretary of the Interior on the ground that such 
        appointment and continuance in office is in violation of article 
        I, section 6, clause 2, of the Constitution, in an action 
        brought under paragraph (1) shall be heard and determined by a 
        panel of three judges in accordance with section 2284 of title 
        28, United States Code. It shall be the duty of the district 
        court to advance on the docket and to expedite the disposition 
        of any matter brought under this subsection.
            (3) Appeal.--
                    (A) Direct appeal to supreme court.--An appeal may 
                be taken directly to the Supreme Court of the United 
                States from any interlocutory or final judgment, decree, 
                or order upon the validity of the appointment and 
                continuance in office of the Secretary of the Interior 
                under article I, section 6, clause 2, of the 
                Constitution, entered in any action brought under this 
                subsection. <<NOTE: Deadline.>>  Any such appeal shall 
                be taken by a notice of appeal filed within 20 days 
                after such judgment, decree, or order is entered.
                    (B) Jurisdiction.--The Supreme Court shall, if it 
                has not previously ruled on the question presented by an 
                appeal taken under subparagraph (A), accept jurisdiction 
                over the appeal, advance the appeal on the docket, and 
                expedite the appeal.

    (c) Effective Date.--This joint resolution shall take effect at 
12:00 p.m. on January 20, 2009.

    Approved January 16, 2009.

LEGISLATIVE HISTORY--S.J. Res. 3:
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD, Vol. 155 (2009):
            Jan. 6, considered and passed Senate.
            Jan. 7, considered and passed House.

                                  <all>