 
--H.J.Res.657--
H.J.Res.657
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
Granting the consent of the Congress to amendments to the Delaware-New Jersey
Compact, and for other purposes.
Whereas the State of Delaware and the State of New Jersey, pursuant to
legislative authority adopted by each State, being 53 Laws of Delaware,
chapter 145, and Public Law 1961, chapter 66 of the Laws of New Jersey,
have provided, subject to the consent of Congress, for a compact, known as
the Delaware-New Jersey Compact, establishing `The Delaware River and Bay
Authority' for the development of the area in both States bordering the said
Delaware River and Bay; and
Whereas the State of Delaware and the State of New Jersey, pursuant to
legislative authority adopted by each State, subject to the consent of
Congress, have provided for an amendment to the Delaware-New Jersey Compact
to authorize the Delaware River and Bay Authority to undertake economic
development projects, other than major projects, at its own initiative,
and to undertake major projects after securing only such approvals as may
be required by the legislation of the State in which the project is to
be located, except the Authority is prohibited from undertaking any major
project to be located in the Delaware River and Bay, including, without
limitation, any deep-water port or superport, without the prior approval,
by concurrent legislation, of the two States: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. CONSENT OF CONGRESS.
 The Congress consents to the amendments to the Delaware-New Jersey Compact
 which have been enacted by the States of Delaware and New Jersey, so that
 the Delaware-New Jersey Compact reads substantially as follows:
`Delaware-New Jersey Compact
`Whereas the States of Delaware and New Jersey are separated by the Delaware
River and Bay which creates a natural obstacle to the uninterrupted passage
of traffic other than by water and with normal commercial activity between
the two States thereby hindering the economic growth and development of
those areas in both States which border the River and Bay; and
`Whereas the pressures of existing trends from increasing traffic,
growing population, and greater industrialization indicate the need for
closer cooperation between the two States in order to advance the economic
development and to improve crossings, transportation, terminal, and other
facilities of the area; and
`Whereas the financing, construction, operation and maintenance of such
crossings, transportation, terminal, and other facilities of commerce and
the overall planning for future economic development of the area may be
best accomplished for the benefit of the two States and their citizens, the
region and Nation, by the cordial cooperation of Delaware and New Jersey by
and through a joint or common agency or authority; and
`Whereas the Delaware-New Jersey Compact, enacted pursuant to 53 Laws
of Delaware, Chapter 145 (17 Del. C. 1701) and Public Law 1961, c. 66
(C. 32:11E-1 et seq.) of the Pamphlet Laws of New Jersey, with the consent
of the United States Congress by Joint Resolution being Public Law 87-678,
87th Congress, H.J. Res. 783, September 20, 1962, created the Delaware River
and Bay Authority with the intention of advancing the economic growth and
development of those areas in both States which border the Delaware River and
Bay by the financing, development, construction, operation, and maintenance
of crossings, transportation, or terminal facilities, and other facilities
of commerce, and by providing for overall planning for the future economic
development of those areas; and
`Whereas the economic growth and development of areas of both States will
be further advanced by authorizing the Authority to undertake economic
development projects, other than major projects, as defined in Article II,
at its own initiative, and to undertake major projects after securing only
such approvals as may be required by legislation of the State in which
the project is to be located, except that the Authority is prohibited from
undertaking any major project, to be located in the Delaware River or Bay,
including, without limitation, any deep-water port or superport, without
the prior approval, by concurrent legislation, of the two States; and
`Whereas the natural environment of those areas in the two States which
border the Delaware River and Bay would be better preserved by requiring that
the projects, other than crossings, of the Authority shall be in complete
compliance with all applicable environmental protection laws and regulations
before the Authority may undertake the planning, development, construction,
or operation of any project, other than a crossing:
 `NOW, THEREFORE, the State of Delaware and the State of New Jersey do hereby
 solemnly covenant and agree, each with the other as follows:
`ARTICLE I
`SHORT TITLE
 `This Compact shall be known as the `Delaware-New Jersey Compact'.
`ARTICLE II
`DEFINITIONS
 ` `Crossing' means any structure or facility adapted for public use in
 crossing the Delaware River or Bay between the States, whether by bridge,
 tunnel, ferry, or other device, and by any vehicle or means of transportation
 of persons or property, as well as all approaches thereto and connecting
 and service routes and all appurtenances and equipment relating thereto.
 ` `Transportation facility' and `terminal facility' means any structure or
 facility other than a crossing, as herein defined, adapted for public use
 within each of the States party hereto in connection with the transportation
 of persons or property, including railroads, motor vehicles, watercraft,
 airports and aircraft, docks, wharves, piers, slips, basins, storage
 places, sheds, warehouses, and every means or vehicle of transportation
 now or hereafter in use for the transportation of persons and property or
 the storage, handling or loading of property, as well as all appurtenances
 and equipment related thereto.
 ` `Commerce facility or development' means any structure or facility adapted
 for public use or any development for a public purpose within each of the
 States party hereto in connection with recreational and commercial fishery
 development, recreational marina development, aquaculture (marine farming),
 shoreline preservation and development (including wetlands and open-lands
 acquisition, active recreational and park development, beach restoration
 and development, dredge spoil disposal and port-oriented development),
 foreign trade zone site development, manufacturing and industrial facilities,
 and other facilities of commerce which, in the judgment of the Authority,
 are required for the sound economic development of the area.
 ` `Appurtenances' and `Equipment' mean all works, buildings, structures,
 devices, appliances, and supplies, as well as every kind of mechanism,
 arrangement, object, or substance related to and necessary or convenient
 for the proper construction, equipment, maintenance, improvement, and
 operation of any crossing, transportation facility or terminal facility,
 or commerce facility, or development.
 ` `Project' means any undertaking or program for the acquisition or creation
 of any crossing, transportation facility or terminal facility, or commerce
 facility or development, or any part thereof, as well as for the operation,
 maintenance, and improvement thereof.
 ` `Major Project' means any project, other than a crossing, having or likely
 to have significant environmental impacts on the Delaware River and Bay,
 its shorelines or estuaries, or any other area in the State of Delaware
 or the New Jersey counties of Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, and Salem,
 as determined in accordance with State law by the environmental agency of
 the State in which the major project is to be located.
 ` `Tunnel' means a tunnel of one or more tubes.
 ` `Governor' means any person authorized by the Constitution and law of
 each State to exercise the functions, powers, and duties of that office.
 ` `Authority' means the Authority created by this Compact or any agency
 successor thereto.
 `The singular whenever used in this Compact shall include the plural,
 and the plural shall include the singular.
`ARTICLE III
`FAITHFUL COOPERATION
 `They agree to and pledge, each to the other, faithful cooperation in the
 effectuation of this Compact and any future amendment or supplement thereto,
 and of any legislation expressly in implementation thereof hereafter enacted,
 and in the planning, development, financing, construction, operation,
 maintenance, and improvement of all projects entrusted to the authority
 created by this Compact.
`ARTICLE IV
`ESTABLISHMENT OF AGENCY; PURPOSES
 `The two States agree that there shall be created and they do hereby create
 a body politic, to be known as `The Delaware River and Bay Authority' (for
 brevity hereinafter referred to as the `Authority'), which shall constitute
 an agency of government of the State of Delaware and the State of New Jersey
 for the following general public purposes, and which shall be deemed to be
 exercising essential government functions in effectuating such purposes,
 to wit:
 `(a) The planning, financing, development, construction, purchase, lease,
 maintenance, improvement, and operation of crossings between the States of
 Delaware and New Jersey across the Delaware River or Bay at any location south
 of the boundary line between the State of Delaware and the Commonwealth of
 Pennsylvania as extended across the Delaware River to the New Jersey shore
 of said River, together with such approaches or connections thereto as in
 the judgment of the Authority are required to make adequate and efficient
 connections between such crossings and any public highway or other routes
 in the State of Delaware or in the State of New Jersey; and
 `(b) The planning, financing, development, construction, purchase, lease,
 maintenance, improvement, and operation of any transportation or terminal
 facility within the State of Delaware or the New Jersey counties of Cape
 May, Cumberland, Gloucester, and Salem, which facility, in the judgment of
 the Authority, is required for the sound economic development of the area; and
 `(c) The planning, financing, development, construction, purchase,
 lease, maintenance, improvement, and operation of any commerce facility
 or development within the State of Delaware or the New Jersey counties of
 Cape May, Cumberland, Gloucester, and Salem, which in the judgment of the
 Authority is required for the sound economic development of the area; and
 `(d) The performance of such other functions as may be hereafter entrusted
 to the Authority by concurrent legislation expressly in implementation hereof.
 `The Authority shall not undertake any major project or part thereof without
 having first secured such approvals as may be required by legislation of
 the State in which the project is to be located.
 `The Authority shall not undertake any major project, or part thereof to
 be located in the Delaware River or Bay, including, without limitation, any
 deep-water port or superport, without having first secured approval thereof by
 concurrent legislation of the two States expressly in implementation thereof.
 `The Authority shall not undertake any major project or part thereof without
 first giving public notice and holding a public hearing, if requested,
 on any proposed major project, in accordance with the law of the State in
 which the major project is to be located. Each State shall provide by law
 for the time and manner for the giving of such public notice, the requesting
 of a public hearing and the holding of such public hearings.
`ARTICLE V
`COMMISSIONERS
 `The Authority shall consist of twelve Commissioners, six of whom shall be
 residents of and qualified to vote in and shall be appointed from the State
 of Delaware, and six of whom shall be residents of and qualified to vote in
 and shall be appointed from the State of New Jersey; not more than three
 of the Commissioners of each State shall be of the same political party;
 the Commissioners for each State shall be appointed in the manner fixed and
 determined from time to time by the law of each State respectively. Each
 Commissioner shall hold office for a term of five years, and until his
 successor shall have been appointed and qualified, but the terms of the
 first Commissioners shall be so designated that the term of at least one
 Commissioner from each State shall expire each year. All terms shall run
 to the first day of July. Any vacancy, however created, shall be filled for
 the unexpired term only. Any Commissioner may be suspended or removed from
 office as provided by law of the State from which he shall be appointed.
 `Commissioners shall be entitled to reimbursement for necessary expenses to
 be paid only from revenues of the Authority and may not receive any other
 compensation for services to the Authority except such as may from time to
 time be authorized from such revenues by concurrent legislation.
`ARTICLE VI
`BOARD ACTION
 `The Commissioners shall have charge of the Authority's property and affairs
 and shall, for the purpose of doing business, constitute a Board, but no
 action of the Commissioners shall be binding or effective unless taken at
 a meeting at which at least four Commissioners from each State are present,
 and unless at least four Commissioners from each State shall vote in favor
 thereof. The vote of any one or more of the Commissioners from each State
 shall be subject to cancellation by the Governor of such State at any time
 within 10 days (Saturdays, Sundays, and public holidays in the particular
 State excepted) after receipt at the Governor's office of a certified copy
 of the minutes of the meeting at which such vote was taken. Each State
 may provide by law for the manner of delivery of such minutes and for
 notification of the action thereon.
`ARTICLE VII
`GENERAL POWERS
 `For the effectuation of its authorized purposes, the Authority is hereby
 granted the following powers:
 `(a) To have perpetual succession.
 `(b) To adopt and use an official seal.
 `(c) To elect a chairman and a vice chairman from among the Commissioners. The
 chairman and vice chairman shall be elected from different States and shall
 each hold office for two years. The chairmanship and vice chairmanship
 shall be alternated between the two States.
 `(d) To adopt bylaws to govern the conduct of its affairs by the Board of
 Commissioners, and it may adopt rules and regulations and may make appropriate
 orders to carry out and discharge its powers, duties, and functions, but no
 bylaw or rule, regulation, or order shall take effect until it has been filed
 with the Secretary of State of each State or in such other manner in each
 State as may be provided by the law thereof. In the establishment of rules,
 regulations, and orders respecting the use of any crossing, transportation,
 or terminal facility or commerce facility or development owned or operated by
 the Authority, including approach roads, it shall consult with appropriate
 officials of both States in order to insure, as far as possible, uniformity
 of such rules, regulations, and orders with the laws of both States.
 `(e) To appoint or employ such other officers, agents, attorneys, engineers,
 and employees as it may require for the performance of its duties and to fix
 and determine their qualifications, duties, compensation, pensions, terms
 of office and all other conditions and terms of employment and retention.
 `(f) To enter into contracts and agreements with either State or with the
 United States, or with any public body, department, or other agency of either
 State or of the United States or with any individual, firm, or corporation
 deemed necessary or advisable for the exercise of its purposes and powers.
 `(g) To accept from any government or governmental department, agency,
 or other public or private body, or from any other source, grants, or
 contributions of money or property as well as loans, advances, guarantees,
 or other forms of financial assistance which it may use for or in aid of
 any of its purposes.
 `(h) To acquire (by gift, purchase, or condemnation), own, hire, lease,
 use, operate, and dispose of property, whether real, personal, or mixed,
 or of any interest therein, including any rights, franchise and property
 for any crossing, facility, or other project owned by another and which
 the Authority is authorized to own and operate.
 `(i) To designate as express highways, and control public and private access
 thereto, all or any approaches to any crossing or other facility of the
 Authority for the purpose of connecting the same with any highway or other
 route in either State.
 `(j) To borrow money and to evidence such loans by bonds, notes, or other
 obligations, either secured or unsecured, and either in registered or
 unregistered form, and to fund or refund such evidences of indebtedness,
 which may be executed with facsimile signatures of such persons as may be
 designated by the Authority and by a facsimile of its corporate seal.
 `(k) To procure and keep in force adequate insurance or otherwise provide
 for the adequate protection of its property, as well as to indemnify it or
 its officers, agents, or employees against loss or liability with respect
 to any risk to which it or they may be exposed in carrying out any function
 hereunder.
 `(l) To grant the use of by franchise, lease, or otherwise, and to make
 charges for the use of any crossing, facility, or other project or property
 owned or controlled by it.
 `(m) To exercise the right of eminent domain to acquire any property or
 interest therein.
 `(n) To determine the exact location, system, and character of and all other
 matters in connection with any and all crossings, transportation, or terminal
 facilities, commerce facilities or developments or other projects which it may
 be authorized to own, construct, establish, effectuate, operate, or control.
 `(o) To exercise all other powers not inconsistent with the Constitutions of
 the two States or of the United States, which may be reasonably necessary
 or incidental to the effectuation of its authorized purposes or to the
 exercise of any of the foregoing powers, except the power to levy taxes or
 assessments, and generally to exercise in connection with its property and
 affairs, and in connection with property within its control, any and all
 powers which might be exercised by a natural person or a private corporation
 in connection with similar property and affairs.
`ARTICLE VIII
`ADDITIONAL POWERS
 `For the purpose of effectuating the authorized purposes of the Authority,
 additional powers may be granted to the Authority by legislation of either
 State without the concurrence of the other, and may be exercised within such
 State, or may be granted to the Authority by Congress and exercised by it;
 but no additional duties or obligations shall be undertaken by the Authority
 under the law of either State or of Congress without authorization by the
 law of both States.
`ARTICLE IX
`EMINENT DOMAIN
 `If the Authority shall find and determine that any property or interest
 therein is required for a public use in furtherance of the purposes of the
 Authority, said determination shall not be affected by the fact that such
 property has theretofore been taken over or is then devoted to a public
 use, but the public use in the hands or under the control of the Authority
 shall be deemed superior to the public use for which it has theretofore been
 taken or to which it is then devoted. The Authority shall not exercise the
 power of eminent domain granted herein to acquire any property, other than a
 crossing, devoted to a public use, of either State, or of any municipality,
 local government, agency, public authority or commission, or of two or more
 of them, for any purpose other than a crossing, without having first secured
 the authorization of the holder of the title to the land in question and
 such other approvals as may be required by legislation of the State in which
 the project is to be located. The Authority shall not exercise the power
 of eminent domain in connection with any commerce facility or development.
 `In any condemnation proceedings in connection with the acquisition by
 the Authority of property or property rights of any character in either
 State and the right of inspection and immediate entry thereon, through the
 exercise by it of its power of eminent domain, any existing or future law or
 rule of court of the State in which such property is located with respect
 to the condemnation of property for the construction, reconstruction, and
 maintenance of highways therein shall control. The Authority shall have the
 same power and authority with respect thereto as the State agency named in
 any such law, provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed as
 requiring joint or concurrent action by the two States with respect to the
 enactment, repeal, or amendment of any law or rule of court on the subject of
 condemnation under which the Authority may proceed by virtue of this Article.
 `If the established grade of any street, avenue, highway, or other route
 shall be changed by reason of the construction by the Authority of any work so
 as to cause loss or injury to any property abutting on such street, avenue,
 highway, or other route, the Authority may enter into voluntary agreements
 with such abutting property owners and pay reasonable compensation for any
 loss or injury so sustained, whether or not it be compensable as damages
 under the condemnation law of the State.
 `The power of the Authority to acquire property by condemnation shall be
 a continuing power, and no exercise thereof shall be deemed to exhaust it.
`ARTICLE X
`REVENUE AND APPLICATION
 `The Authority is hereby authorized to establish, levy, and collect such
 tolls and other charges as it may deem necessary, proper, or desirable in
 connection with any crossing, transportation, or terminal facility, commerce
 facility or development or other project which it is or may be authorized
 at any time to construct, own, operate, or control, and the aggregate of
 said tolls and charges shall be at least sufficient (1) to meet the combined
 expenses of operation, maintenance and improvement thereof, (2) to pay the
 cost of acquisition or construction, including the payment, amortization,
 and retirement of bonds or other securities or obligations assumed, issued,
 or incurred by the Authority, together with interest thereon, and (3) to
 provide reserves for such purposes; and the Authority is hereby authorized and
 empowered, subject to prior pledges, if any, to pledge such tolls and other
 revenues or any part thereof as security for the repayment with interest
 of any moneys borrowed by it or advanced to it for its authorized purposes
 and as security for the satisfaction of any other obligations assumed by
 it in connection with such loans or advances. There shall be allocated
 to the cost of the acquisition, construction, operation, maintenance, and
 improvement of such facilities and projects such proportion of the general
 expenses of the Authority as it shall deem properly chargeable thereto.
`ARTICLE XI
`COVENANT WITH BONDHOLDERS
 `The two said States covenant and agree with each other and with the holders
 of any bonds or other securities or obligations of the Authority, assumed,
 issued, or incurred by it and as security for which there may be pledged
 the tolls and revenues or any part thereof of any crossing, transportation,
 or terminal facility, commerce facility or development or other project,
 that the two said States will not, so long as any of such bonds or other
 obligations remain outstanding and unpaid, diminish, or impair the power
 of the Authority to establish, levy, and collect tolls and other charges in
 connection therewith, and that neither of the two said States will, so long
 as any of such bonds or other obligations remain outstanding and unpaid,
 authorize any crossing of the Delaware River or Delaware Bay south of the
 line mentioned in Article IV(a) of this Compact by any person or body other
 than the Authority, unless, in either case, adequate provision shall be
 made by law for the protection of those advancing money upon such obligations.
`ARTICLE XII
`SECURITIES LAWFUL INVESTMENTS
 `The bonds or other securities or obligations which may be issued by the
 Authority pursuant to this Compact, or any amendments hereof or supplements
 hereto, are hereby declared to be negotiable instruments, and are hereby
 made securities in which all State and municipal officers and bodies of
 each State, all banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks, building
 and loan associations, saving and loan associations, investment companies
 and other persons carrying on a banking business, all insurance companies,
 insurance associations and other persons carrying on an insurance business,
 and all administrators, executors, guardians, trustees, and other fiduciaries
 and all other persons whatsoever who are now or may hereafter be authorized
 to invest in bonds or other obligations of either State may properly and
 legally invest any funds, including capital, belonging to them or within
 their control, and said obligations are hereby made securities which may
 properly and legally be deposited with and shall be received by any State
 or municipal officer or agency of either State for any purpose for which the
 deposit of bonds or other obligations of such State is now or may hereafter
 be authorized.
`ARTICLE XIII
`TAX STATUS
 `The powers and functions exercised by the Authority under this Compact and
 any amendments hereof or supplements hereto are and will be in all respects
 for the benefit of the people of the States of Delaware and New Jersey, the
 region and Nation, for the increase of their commerce and prosperity and for
 the enhancement of their general welfare. To this end, the Authority shall
 be regarded as performing essential governmental functions in exercising
 such powers and functions and in carrying out the provisions of this
 Compact and of any law relating thereto, and shall not be required to
 pay any taxes or assessments of any character, levied by either State or
 political subdivision thereof, upon any of the property used by it for such
 purposes, or any income or revenue therefrom, including any profit from a
 sale or exchange. The bonds or other securities or obligations issued by the
 Authority, their transfer and the interest paid thereon or income therefrom,
 including any profit from a sale or exchange, shall at all times be free
 from taxation by either State or any subdivision thereof.
`ARTICLE XIV
`JURISDICTION; USE OF LANDS
 `Each of the two States hereby consents to the use and occupancy by the
 Authority of any lands and property of the Authority in such State for
 the construction, operation, maintenance or improvement of any crossing,
 transportation, or terminal facility, commerce facility or development,
 or other project which it is or may be authorized at any time to construct,
 own, or operate, including lands lying under water.
`ARTICLE XV
`REVIEW AND ENFORCEMENT OF RULES
 `Judicial proceedings to review any bylaw, rule, regulation, order, or other
 action of the Authority or to determine the meaning or effect thereof may
 be brought in such court of each State, and pursuant to such law or rules
 thereof, as a similar proceeding with respect to any agency of such State
 might be brought.
 `Each State may provide by law what penalty or penalties shall be imposed
 for violation of any lawful rule, regulation, or order of the Authority,
 and, by law or rule of court, for the manner of enforcing the same.
`ARTICLE XVI
`NO PLEDGE OF CREDIT
 `The Authority shall have no power to pledge the credit or to create any
 debt or liability of the State of Delaware, of the State of New Jersey or
 of any other agency or of any political subdivision of said States.
`ARTICLE XVII
`LOCAL COOPERATION AND AGREEMENTS
 `(a) All municipalities, political subdivisions, and every department, agency,
 or public body of each of the States are hereby authorized and empowered to
 cooperate with, aid and assist the Authority in effectuating the provisions
 of this Compact and of any amendment hereof or supplement hereto.
 `(b) The Authority is authorized and empowered to cooperate with each of
 the States, or any political subdivision thereof, and with any municipality,
 local government, agency, public authority or commission of the foregoing,
 in connection with the acquisition, planning, rehabilitation, construction
 or development of any project, other than a crossing, and to enter into
 an agreement or agreements, subject to compliance with the laws of the
 State in which the project is to be located, with each of the States,
 or any political subdivision thereof, and with any municipality, county,
 local government, agency, public authority, or commission or with two or
 more of them, for or relating to such purposes.
 `(c) The Authority and the city, town, municipality, or other political
 subdivision in which any project, other than a crossing, is to be located
 are hereby authorized and empowers, subject to compliance with the laws of
 the State in which the project is to be located, to enter into an agreement
 or agreements to provide which local laws, resolutions, ordinances, rules,
 and regulations, if any, of the city, town, municipality, or other political
 subdivision affected by such project shall apply to such project. All other
 existing local laws, resolutions, ordinances or rules and regulations not
 provided for in the agreement shall be applicable to the project, other than
 a crossing. All local laws, resolutions, ordinances or rules and regulations
 enacted after the date of the agreement shall not be applicable to such
 projects unless made applicable by the agreement or any modification thereto.
`ARTICLE XVIII
`DEPOSITARIES
 `All banks, bankers, trust companies, savings banks and other persons carrying
 on a banking business under the laws of either State are authorized to give
 security for the safekeeping and prompt payment of moneys of the Authority
 deposited by it with them, in such manner and form as may be required
 by and may be approved by the Authority, which security may consist of a
 good and sufficient undertaking with such sureties as may be approved by
 the Authority, or may consist of the deposit with the Authority or other
 depository approved by the Authority as collateral of such securities as
 the Authority may approve.
`ARTICLE XIX
`AGENCY POLICE
 `Members of the police force established by the Authority, regardless of
 their residence, shall have in each State, on the crossings, transportation or
 terminal facilities, commerce facilities or developments and other projects
 and the approaches thereto, owned, operated, or controlled by the Authority,
 and at such other places and under such circumstances as the law of each
 State may provide, all the powers of investigation, detention, and arrest
 conferred by law on peace officers, sheriffs, or constables in such State
 or usually exercised by such officers in each State.
`ARTICLE XX
`REPORTS AND AUDITS
 `The Authority shall make annual reports to the Governors and Legislatures of
 the State of Delaware and the State of New Jersey, setting forth in detail
 its operations and transactions, and may make such additional reports from
 time to time to the Governors and Legislatures as it may deem desirable.
 `It shall, at least annually, cause an independent audit of its fiscal
 affairs to be made, and shall furnish a copy of such audit report together
 with such additional information or data with respect to its affairs as it
 may deem desirable to the Governors and Legislatures of each State.
 `It shall furnish such information or data with respect to its affairs as
 may be requested by the Governor or Legislature of each State.
`ARTICLE XXI
`BOUNDARIES UNAFFECTED
 `The existing territorial or boundary lines of the States or the jurisdiction
 of the two States established by said boundary lines shall not be changed
 hereby.
`ARTICLE XXII
`ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
 `(a) The planning, development, construction, and operation of any project,
 other than a crossing, shall comply with all environmental protection
 laws, regulations, directives, and orders, including, without limitation,
 any coastal zone laws, wetlands laws, or subaqueous land laws or natural
 resources laws, now or hereinafter enacted, or promulgated by the State in
 which the project, or any part thereof, is located.
 `(b) The planning, development, construction, and operation of any project,
 other than a crossing, to be located in the Delaware River and Bay shall
 comply with all environmental protection laws, regulations, directives, and
 orders, including, without limitation, any coastal zone laws, wetlands laws,
 subaqueous land laws or natural resource laws now or hereinafter enacted
 or promulgated by either State.
 `(c) The planning, development, construction, and operation of any project,
 other than a crossing, located in the coastal zone of Delaware (as defined
 in Chapter 70 of Title 7 of the Delaware Code, as in effect on January 1,
 1989), shall be subject to the same limitations, requirements, procedures,
 and appeals as apply to any other person under the Delaware Coastal Zone
 Act, Chapter 70 of Title 7 of the Delaware Code, as in effect on January
 1, 1989. Nothing in this Compact shall be deemed to pre-empt, modify, or
 supersede any provision of the Delaware Coastal Zone Act, Chapter 70 of Title
 7 of the Delaware Code, as in effect on January 1, 1989. The interpretation
 and application of this paragraph shall be governed by the laws of the
 State of Delaware and be determined by the courts of the State of Delaware.
 `(d) The planning, development, construction, and operation of any project,
 other than a crossing, located in New Jersey, shall be subject to the
 provisions of New Jersey law, when applicable, including but not limited
 to the Wetlands Act of 1970, N.J.S.A. 13:9A-1, et seq. and the Coastal Area
 Facility Review Act, N.J.S.A. 13:19-1, et seq.'.
SEC. 2. FEDERAL JURISDICTION NOT AFFECTED.
 Nothing contained in the compact set forth in section 1 shall be construed
 as impairing or in any manner affecting any right or jurisdiction of the
 United States in and over the area which forms the subject of such compact.
SEC. 3. AUTHORITY FOR ADDITIONAL TOLL BRIDGES.
 Section 4 of the Act entitled `An Act to authorize the State of Delaware,
 by and through its State highway department, to construct, maintain, and
 operate a toll bridge across the Delaware River near Wilmington, Delaware'
 approved July 13, 1946 (60 Stat. 533), as amended by the Act of June 27, 1951
 (65 Stat. 91) and the Act of October 3, 1962 (76 Stat. 741-742), is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (3);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding after paragraph (4) the following:
 `(5) to pay the cost of any project which the Delaware River and Bay
 Authority is or may be authorized to construct, own, operate, or control,
 under the Delaware-New Jersey Compact, as consented to by the Congress.'.
SEC. 4. REQUIREMENTS OF OTHER LAWS.
 In addition to any other requirement of law, any project constructed by the
 Delaware River and Bay Authority in and over the navigable waters of the
 United States shall be subject to the procedural requirements of section 2(a)
 of the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 662(a)).
SEC. 5. CONSTRUCTION.
 Nothing in this resolution shall be construed as--
 (1) amending or superseding the provisions of the Act of September 27, 1961
 (75 Stat. 688); or
 (2) granting advance consent of Congress for the performance by the Delaware
 River and Bay Authority of other functions, as contemplated by Article IV,
 paragraph (d) of the compact set forth in section 1 or for the assumption
 by the Authority of additional powers, as contemplated by Article VIII of
 such compact.
SEC. 6. DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.
 The right is reserved to the Congress or any of its standing committees
 to require of the Delaware River and Bay Authority the disclosure and
 furnishing of such information and data as is deemed appropriate by the
 Congress or any committee thereof having jurisdiction of the subject matter
 of this resolution.
SEC. 7. RESERVATION BY THE CONGRESS.
 The right to alter, amend, or repeal this joint resolution is expressly
 reserved.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.