 
--H.J.Res. 669--
H.J.Res. 669
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
To salute and congratulate the people of Poland as they commemorate the two-
hundredth anniversary of the adoption of the Polish Constitution on May
3, 1991.
Whereas, the Polish Constitution of 1791 was designed to protect Poland's
sovereignty and national unity, and replaced a feudal system of rule in
Poland with a progressive constitutional monarchy;
Whereas, the Polish Constitution secured individual freedom for all persons
in Poland and guaranteed religious tolerance by assuring `to all persuasions
and religions freedom and liberty', and formed a government composed of three
distinct powers: Legislative, Executive, and Judicial, while declaring that
`all power in civil society should be derived from the will of the people';
Whereas, the Polish Constitution revitalized the parliamentary system by
placing preeminent lawmaking power in a House of Deputies, by subjecting
the legislative Diet to majority rule, and by granting the Diet the power
to remove ministers, appoint commissars, and choose magistrates;
Whereas, the Polish Constitution provided for significant economic, social,
and political reforms for its time by removing inequalities between the
nobility and bourgeois, recognizing town residents as `freemen' that had
judicial autonomy and expanded rights, and extending the protection of law
to the peasantry, which previously had no recourse against the arbitrary
action of feudal lords; and
Whereas, the principles of the Polish Constitution endured and became the
symbol around which a powerful new national consciousness was born, helping
the Polish nation to survive long periods of misfortune over the next two
centuries: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the people of the United States of
 America salute and congratulate the people of Poland as they commemorate
 the two-hundredth anniversary of the adoption of the Polish Constitution
 on May 3, 1991, and recognize that Poland's rebirth as a free nation is
 supported by the legacy of the Polish Constitution of 1791;
 SEC. 2. The Library of Congress is authorized and directed to commemorate
 this anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
 SEC. 3. The President of the United States is authorized and requested to
 issue a proclamation calling upon the Governors of the several States,
 the  chief officials of local governments, and the people of the United
 States to observe this anniversary with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.