 
--H.J.Res.276--
H.J.Res.276
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
Joint Resolution
Designating September 14, 1989, as `National D.A.R.E. Day'.
Whereas D.A.R.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education) is a semester-long
program that teaches fifth and sixth grade children how to resist pressure
to experiment with drugs and alcohol;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program is also provided to kindergarten and junior
high school students and their parents;
Whereas D.A.R.E. targets children when they are most vulnerable to tremendous
peer pressure to try drugs and alcohol and teaches the skills to make positive
decisions and resist pressure to engage in negative behaviors;
Whereas more than 1,200 communities in 48 States now conduct the
D.A.R.E. program in their local schools, and a pilot program has been
implemented for use internationally in the Department of Defense Dependent
Schools;
Whereas almost 3 million students have been reached through D.A.R.E.;
Whereas because school children are frequently much more sophisticated about
substance abuse than are classroom teachers, the D.A.R.E. program is taught
by veteran police officers with direct experience in cases involving criminal
activity and ruined lives caused by substance abuse;
Whereas each police officer who teaches the D.A.R.E. program completes an
80-hour training course that includes instruction in teaching techniques,
officer-school relationship, development of self-esteem, child development,
and communication skills;
Whereas the D.A.R.E. curriculum, developed by the Los Angeles Police
Department and the Los Angeles Unified School District, helps students
understand self-image, recognize stress and manage it without taking drugs,
analyze and resist media presentations about alcohol and drugs, evaluate
risk-taking behavior, resist gang pressure, apply decision making skills,
and evaluate the consequences of the choices available to them;
Whereas independent research shows that the D.A.R.E. program has exceeded
its goal of helping students combat peer pressure to use drugs and alcohol,
by contributing to improved study habits and grades and decreased vandalism
and gang activity and by generating greater respect for police officers; and
Whereas the D.A.R.E. program has achieved outstanding success teaching positive
and effective approaches to what is one of the most difficult problems facing
our young people today, namely drug abuse: Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That September 14, 1989, is designated as
 `National D.A.R.E. Day', and the President of the United States is authorized
 and requested to issue a proclamation calling upon the people of the United
 States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.