 
--H.J.Res.175--
H.J.Res.175
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
Joint Resolution
To authorize entry into force of the Compact of Free Association between
the United
States and the Government of Palau, and for other purposes.
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I--IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPACT OF FREE ASSOCIATION WITH PALAU
SEC. 101. ENTRY INTO FORCE OF COMPACT.
 Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 101(d)(1)(B) of Public Law 99-658,
 entry into force of the Compact of Free Association between the United
 States and Palau (set forth in title II of Public Law 99-658 and hereafter
 in this joint resolution referred to as the `Compact') in accordance with
 subsections (a) and (d) of section 101 of Public Law 99-658 (100 Stat. 3673)
 is hereby authorized--
 (1) subject to the condition that the Compact, as approved by the Congress
 in Public Law 99-658, is approved by the requisite percentage of the votes
 cast in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Constitution of Palau,
 and such approval is free from any legal challenge, and
 (2) upon expiration of 30 days, in which either the House of Representatives
 or the Senate of the United States is in session, after the President notifies
 the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs and Foreign Affairs of the
 House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 of the Senate of the effective date of the Compact.
SEC. 102. FISCAL PROCEDURES ASSISTANCE.
 Upon request of the Government of Palau, the Secretary of the Interior shall
 provide assistance to the Government of Palau to develop and promulgate
 regulations for the effective expenditure of funds received pursuant to this
 joint resolution, Public Laws 99-658 and 99-239, or any other Act of Congress.
SEC. 103. ANTIDRUG PROGRAM.
 (a) PLAN- The Department of the Interior shall develop, in cooperation
 with the Government of Palau and the National Drug Control Policy Office,
 a plan for an antidrug program in Palau. The plan shall be submitted
 to the Committees on Interior and Insular Affairs, Foreign Affairs, and
 Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Energy
 and Natural Resources and Appropriations of the Senate by April 1, 1990. The
 plan shall: (1) identify the specific needs and costs of such an antidrug
 program; (2) shall identify all existing resources to be allocated for its
 implementation by the Government of the United States and the Government
 of Palau; and (3) shall recommend priority use for additional resources,
 assuming such resources are made available.
 (b) AGREEMENT- Following completion of the plan, the President and the
 Government of Palau shall negotiate an agreement to facilitate implementation
 of the plan. Such agreement may include--
 (1) that the Government of Palau may request, on a long-term or case-by-case
 basis, that the officers of United States law enforcement agencies may
 conduct investigations consistent with implementation of the plan in
 cooperation with the law enforcement agencies of the Government of Palau;
 (2) that the Government of Palau or the Government of the United States may
 agree to provide specific resources, on a one-time or a multiyear basis,
 to strengthen the antidrug program; and
 (3) a specific description of the technical assistance, training, and
 equipment to be provided to Palau by the United States necessary to implement
 the plan.
SEC. 104. PUBLIC AUDITOR AND SPECIAL PROSECUTOR.
 (a) Upon request of the Government of Palau the President shall provide, on a
 nonreimbursable basis, appropriate technical assistance to the public auditor
 or special prosecutor. The assistance provided pursuant to this subsection
 for the first five years after the effective date of the Compact shall,
 upon the request of the Government of Palau, and to the extent personnel
 are available, include (but not be limited to) the full time services of--
 (1) an auditor or accountant, as determined by the public auditor, for the
 office of public auditor; and
 (2) an attorney or investigator, as determined by the special prosecutor,
 for the office of special prosecutor.
SEC. 105. POWER GENERATION.
 Section 104(e) of Public Law 99-658 is amended to read as follows:
 `(e) Neither the Secretary of the Treasury nor any other officer or
 agent of the United States shall pay or transfer any portion of the sum
 and amounts payable to the Government of Palau pursuant to this joint
 resolution to any party other than the Government of Palau, except under
 the procedures established by the Compact and its related agreements. No
 funds appropriated pursuant to the Compact, this Act, or any other Act for
 grants or other assistance to Palau may be used to satisfy any obligation
 or expense incurred by Palau prior to November 14, 1986, with respect to
 any contract or debt related to any electrical generating plant or related
 facilities entered into or incurred by Palau which has not been specifically
 authorized by Congress in advance, except that the Government of Palau may
 use any portion of the annual grant under section 211(b) not required to
 be devoted to the energy needs of those parts of Palau not served by its
 central power generating facilities and any portion of the funds under
 section 212(b) of the Compact for such purpose.'.
SEC. 106. AUDIT CERTIFICATION.
 The chief officer of any agency conducting an audit pursuant to paragraph
 (1) of sections 102(c) and 103(m) of the Compact of Free Association Act
 of 1985 (Public Law 99-239) and section 101(d)(1)(C) of Public Law 99-658
 shall certify that audit.
SEC. 107. ACQUISITION OF DEFENSE SITES.
 The provisions of title III of the Compact relating to future use by the
 United States of defense sites in Palau do not restrict the authority of
 the President of the United States to--
 (1) request additional funding, subject to appropriation, related to the use
 of privately owned land in Palau pursuant to article II of title III of the
 Compact as may be appropriate in light of actual land use requirements,
 independent appraisals of such privately owned land accepted by both
 governments, and other appropriate documentation of actual land use costs; and
 (2) consent to an extension of the time set forth in a subsidiary agreement
 to such article in which the Government of Palau is required to make such
 land available to the United States.
SEC. 108. FEDERAL PROGRAMS COORDINATION PERSONNEL.
 The Secretary of the Interior shall station at least one professional staff
 person in each of the Offices of the United States Representatives in the
 Republic of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of
 the Marshall Islands to provide Federal program coordination and technical
 assistance to such governments as authorized under Public Laws 99-239 and
 99-658. In meeting the purposes of this section the Secretary shall select
 qualified persons following consultations with the Interagency Group on
 Freely Associated State Affairs.
SEC. 109. REFERENDUM COSTS.
 The Secretary of the Interior shall provide such sums as may be necessary
 for a further referendum on approval of the Compact, if one is required,
 or other appropriate costs associated with the approval process in Palau.
SEC. 110. AGREEMENTS.
 (a) EFFECTIVE DATE OF CERTAIN AGREEMENTS- An agreement between the United
 States and the Government of the Republic of Palau consistent with the
 agreements approved by Public Law 101-62 (101 Stat. 162) shall take effect
 without further authorization thirty days after submission to Congress.
 (b) EXTENSIONS- The provisions of article IX, paragraph 5(a) of the Agreement
 referred to in section 462(e) of the Compact of Free Association as approved
 by Public Law 99-239, and article IX, paragraph 5(a) of the agreement referred
 to in section 462(f) of the Compact of Free Association for Palau as approved
 by Public Law 99-658, are extended, in accordance with the terms thereof,
 until October 1, 1998, unless earlier terminated or further extended by
 the laws of the United States.
 (c) AUTHORIZATION- Funding to implement the provisions of this title, and
 for assistance to the central health care facility and the prison in Palau,
 and the offices of Public Auditor and Special Prosecutor as proposed in the
 agreement entitled `Agreement Concerning Special Programs related to the Entry
 into Force of the Compact of Free Association Between the Government of the
 United States and the Government of the Republic of Palau' signed on May 26,
 1989, shall be available pursuant to the authorization in section 105(c) of
 Public Law 99-239 as referenced by section 102(b) of Public Law 99-658 or from
 funds appropriated for technical assistance to the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 111. MODIFICATION OF ENERGY ASSISTANCE FUNDING.
 (a) The President is authorized to negotiate and conclude an agreement,
 including the obligation of United States funds, with the Government of
 Palau which shall provide the following:
 (1) The sum of $28,000,000, adjusted by section 215 of the Compact at the
 time of its availability to Palau, shall be provided to Palau pursuant to
 section 211(b) of the Compact and upon entry into force of the Compact.
 (2) Palau shall pay to the United States, on or before the 15th anniversary
 of the effective date of the Compact, an amount equal to the net economic
 cost to the United States of making available the section 211(b) funds in the
 manner specified in this subsection rather than as provided in section 211(b).
 (3) Such economic cost shall reflect the time value of money and be determined
 using the rate determined for an equivalent loan by the Federal Financing
 Bank as of the date these funds are advanced, and using an inflation rate
 consistent with the determinations made under the provisions of section
 215 of the Compact.
 (4) If the Government of Palau has not paid such net economic costs to the
 United States by the 15th anniversary of the effective date of the Compact,
 then the United States shall be automatically paid such sums from the fund
 established under section 211(f) of the Compact.
 (5) The provision of section 211(b) funds, as appropriated by Public Law
 99-349 and pursuant to this subsection, shall be in fulfillment of all
 United States obligations under such section 211(b) of the Compact and
 shall be subject to section 236 of the Compact.
 (b) Subject to the provisions of subsection (a) and upon the request of
 the Government of Palau, the sum of $28 million appropriated by Public Law
 99-349 to fulfill the obligations of the United States under section 211(b)
 of the Compact (approved in Public Law 99-658), adjusted by section 215 of
 such Compact, shall be provided to Palau upon entry into force of the Compact.
 (c) Funding provided in Public Law 101-121 under the `Trust Territory of the
 Pacific Islands' appropriation account shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 112. SUBMISSION OF AGREEMENTS.
 Any agreement concluded with the Government of Palau pursuant to this
 joint resolution including the agreement entitled `Agreement Concerning
 Special Programs related to the Entry into Force of the Compact of Free
 Association Between the Government of the United States and the Government
 of the Republic of Palau' signed on May 26, 1989, and any agreement which
 would amend, change, or terminate any such agreement, or portion thereof,
 shall be submitted to the Congress and may not take effect until after 30
 days after the date on which such agreement is so submitted. An amendment or
 agreement substituting or in addition to the subsidiary agreement negotiated
 under section 212(a) of the Compact or its annex shall take effect only
 when approved by an Act of Congress.
SEC. 113. TRANSITION FUNDING.
 For the purposes of applying section 105(c)(2) of the Compact of Free
 Association Act of 1985 (99 Stat. 1792) to Palau, the terms `fiscal year
 1987', `fiscal year 1988', and `fiscal year 1989' in section 104(c) of Public
 Law 99-658 shall be deemed to be the first, second, and third fiscal years,
 respectively, beginning after the effective date of the Compact.
TITLE II--INSULAR AREAS MATTERS
SEC. 201. CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES IN THE FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The President is authorized to negotiate agreements which
 provide--
 (1) that the United States shall carry out the provisions of part C of the
 Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 821 et seq.) as necessary to provide
 for the lawful distribution of controlled substances in the freely associated
 states; and
 (2) that a freely associated state which institutes and maintains a voluntary
 system to report annual estimates of narcotics needs to the International
 Narcotics Control Board, and which imposes controls on imports of narcotic
 drugs consistent with the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961,
 shall be eligible for exports of narcotic drugs from the United States in
 the same manner as a country meeting the requirements of subsection (a)
 of section 1003 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 953).
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- Agreements concluded pursuant to this section shall
 become effective pursuant to section 101(f)(5) of Public Law 99-239 or
 section 101(d)(5) of Public Law 99-658, as may be applicable.
SEC. 202. NORTHERN MARIANAS COLLEGE.
 The Northern Marianas College is hereby constituted a depository to receive
 Government publications, and the Superintendent of Documents shall supply
 to the Northern Marianas College one copy of each such publication in the
 same form as supplied to other designated depositories.
SEC. 203. VIRGIN ISLANDS.
 The Revised Organic Act of the Virgin Islands is amended by striking out
 the second sentence of section 25 (48 U.S.C. 1615).
SEC. 204. CABRAS ISLAND.
 Section 818(b)(2) of Public Law 96-418 (94 Stat. 1782) (as amended by
 section 504 of Public Law 98-454 (98 Stat. 1736)) is amended by striking
 `30 percent' and inserting `50 percent'.
SEC. 205. POHNPEI HYDROPOWER ADDITION.
 In addition to sums already appropriated for the Nanpil hydropower project,
 there are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of the Army
 up to $6.5 million for design and construction of the hydropower addition
 to the Nanpil project. The Secretary of the Army is directed to use any
 funds appropriated pursuant to this authorization for the intended purposes,
 and under the same terms and conditions as sums previously provided.
SEC. 206. CLARIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO ALLOTMENTS FOR TERRITORIES.
 Section 901(a), Part 1, title I of the Act of June 19, 1968 (42
 U.S.C. 3791(a)) is further amended in paragraph (2) by changing the proviso
 to read as follows: `Provided, That for the purpose of section 506(a),
 American Samoa and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands shall
 be considered as one state and that for these purposes 67 per centum of the
 amounts allocated shall be allocated to American Samoa, and 33 per centum
 to the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.'.
SEC. 207. VIRGIN ISLANDS PRISON EXPANSION AND RENOVATION.
 There is authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 to the Secretary of the
 Interior for the Golden Grove Prison on St. Croix, United States Virgin
 Islands, and for renovation of and improvements of existing prison facilities.
SEC. 208. OFFICE OF THE RESIDENT REPRESENTATIVE.
 Real property owned by the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands in
 the capital of the United States and used by the Resident Representative
 thereof in the discharge of his representative duties under the Covenant
 shall be exempt from assessment and taxation.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.