 
--H.J.Res.407--
H.J.Res.407
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
Joint Resolution
Making continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1990, and for other
purposes.
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are hereby
 appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
 and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for
 the several departments, agencies, corporations, and other organizational
 units of Government for the fiscal year 1990, and for other purposes, namely:
 SEC. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary for continuing projects or
 activities (not otherwise specifically provided for in this joint resolution)
 which were conducted in the fiscal year 1989 and for which appropriations,
 funds or other authority would be available in the following appropriations
 Acts:
 The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
 Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990, notwithstanding section 15(a) of the
 State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956 and section 701 of the United
 States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948, as amended;
 The Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1990, notwithstanding section
 502(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947;
 The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1990;
 The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1990, notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15(a)
 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956;
 The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990;
 The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and
 Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990;
 The Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1990;
 The Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1990;
 The Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations
 Act, 1990;
 The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
 1990;
 The Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act,
 1990; and
 The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development,
 and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990.
 (b) Appropriations made by this section shall be available to the extent
 and in the manner which would be provided by the pertinent appropriations Act.
 (c) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant
 to this section shall be used to initiate or resume any project or activity
 for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available
 during the fiscal year 1989.
 (d) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the authority which
 would be granted under an Act listed in this section as passed by the House
 as of October 1, 1989, is different from that which would be available or
 granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as of October 1, 1989, the
 pertinent project or activity shall be continued under the lesser amount or
 the more restrictive authority: Provided, That where an item is included in
 only one version of an Act as passed by both Houses as of October 1, 1989,
 the pertinent project or activity shall be continued under the appropriation,
 fund, or authority granted by the one House, but at a rate for operations
 not exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted by the action of
 the one House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and conditions
 provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1989: Provided
 further, That congressional operations--Senate shall be continued under the
 appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the Act passed by the Senate,
 at a rate for operations not exceeding the rate permitted by the action of
 the Senate and under the authority and conditions provided in the applicable
 appropriations Act for the fiscal year 1989.
 (e) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only the
 House as of October 1, 1989, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the House,
 at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted
 by the action of the House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and
 conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year
 1989: Provided, That where an item is funded in applicable appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year 1989 and not included in the version passed by
 the House as of October 1, 1989, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by applicable
 appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1989, at a rate for operations not
 exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions provided
 in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1989.
 (f) No provision which is included in an appropriations Act enumerated in
 this section but which was not included in the applicable appropriations Act
 for fiscal year 1989, and which by its terms is applicable to more than one
 appropriation, fund, or authority shall be applicable to any appropriation,
 fund, or authority provided in this joint resolution.
 (g) No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to
 this section for the Department of Defense shall be used for new production
 of items not funded for production in fiscal year 1989 or prior years, for
 the increase in production rates above those sustained with fiscal year 1989
 funds, or to initiate, resume, or continue any project, activity, operation,
 or organization which are defined as any project, subproject, activity,
 budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a program element
 and for investment items are further defined as a P-1 line item in a budget
 activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 line item which includes
 a program element and subprogram element within an appropriation account,
 for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available
 during the fiscal year 1989: Provided, That no appropriation or funds made
 available or authority granted pursuant to this section for the Department
 of Defense shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing
 advance procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless
 specifically appropriated later.
 (h) Such amounts as may be necessary for projects or activities provided
 for in the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1990, at a
 rate for operations and to the extent and in the manner provided for in
 the conference report and joint explanatory statement of the committee of
 conference (H. Rept. No. 101-235) adopted in the House of Representatives
 on September 12, 1989, and in the Senate on September 14, 1989.
 SEC. 102. Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or in the
 applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made available and
 authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall be available until
 (a) enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity
 provided for in this joint resolution, or (b) enactment of the applicable
 appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project
 or activity, or (c) October 25, 1989, whichever first occurs.
 SEC. 103. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this joint
 resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any
 program, project, or activity during the period for which funds or authority
 for such project or activity are available under this joint resolution.
 SEC. 104. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall be
 charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever
 a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is
 contained is enacted into law.
 SEC. 105. No provision in any appropriations Act for the fiscal year
 1990 referred to in section 101 of this joint resolution that makes the
 availability of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the
 enactment of additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective
 before the date set forth in section 102(c) of this joint resolution.
 SEC. 106. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority granted
 pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to the time
 limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth in section
 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing herein shall be construed
 to waive any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
 SEC. 107. For necessary expenses in carrying out the functions of the Robert
 T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121
 et seq.), an additional $1,108,000,000 for fiscal year 1989, to remain
 available until expended.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.