 
--H.J.Res.467--
H.J.Res.467
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
Designating September 21, 1990, as `National POW/MIA Recognition Day', and
recognizing the National League of Families POW/MIA flag.
Whereas the United States has fought in many wars;
Whereas thousands of Americans who served in those wars were captured by
the enemy or listed as missing in action;
Whereas many American prisoners of war were subjected to brutal and inhuman
treatment by their enemy captors in violation of international codes and
customs for the treatment of prisoners of war, and many such prisoners of
war died from such treatment;
Whereas many of these Americans are still missing and unaccounted for, and
the uncertainty surrounding their fates has caused their families to suffer
acute hardship; and
Whereas the sacrifices of Americans still missing and unaccounted for
and their families are deserving of national recognition and support for
continued priority efforts to determine the fate of those missing Americans:
Now, therefore, be it
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF NATIONAL POW/MIA RECOGNITION DAY.
 September 21, 1990, is hereby designated as `National POW/MIA Recognition
 Day'. The President is authorized and requested to issue a proclamation
 calling upon the people of the United States to recognize that day with
 appropriate ceremonies and activities.
SEC. 2. RECOGNITION OF NATIONAL LEAGUE OF FAMILIES POW/MIA FLAG.
 The National League of Families POW/MIA flag is hereby recognized officially
 and designated as the symbol of our Nation's concern and commitment to
 resolving as fully as possible the fates of Americans still prisoner,
 missing and unaccounted for in Southeast Asia, thus ending the uncertainty
 for their families and the Nation.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.