 
--H.J.Res. 666--
H.J.Res. 666
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
Joint Resolution
Making further continuing appropriations for the fiscal year 1991, and
for other
purposes.
 Resolved by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States
 of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums are hereby
 appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated,
 and out of applicable corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds, for
 the several departments, agencies, corporations, and other organizational
 units of Government for the fiscal year 1991, and for other purposes, namely:
 SEC. 101. (a) Such amounts as may be necessary for continuing projects or
 activities (not otherwise specifically provided for in this joint resolution)
 which were conducted in the fiscal year 1990 and for which appropriations,
 funds, or other authority would be available in the following appropriations
 Acts:
 The Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
 Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991;
 The District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1991;
 The Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1991;
 The Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1991, notwithstanding section 10 of Public Law 91-672 and section 15(a)
 of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956;
 The Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and
 Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991;
 The Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991;
 The Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations
 Act, 1991;
 The Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
 1991;
 The Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act,
 1991; and
 The Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development,
 and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991.
 (b) Whenever the amount which would be made available or the authority which
 would be granted under an Act listed in this section as passed by the House
 as of October 1, 1990, is different from that which would be available
 or granted under such Act as passed by the Senate as of October 1, 1990,
 or at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate and under the
 authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for
 the fiscal year 1990, the pertinent project or activity shall be continued
 under the lesser amount or the more restrictive authority: Provided, That
 where an item is included in only one version of an Act as passed by both
 Houses as of October 1, 1990,  the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the one
 House, but at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the
 rate permitted by the action of the one House, whichever is lower, and
 under the authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year 1990.
 (c) Whenever an Act listed in this section has been passed by only the
 House as of October 1, 1990, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by the House,
 at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate or the rate permitted
 by the action of the House, whichever is lower, and under the authority and
 conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year
 1990: Provided, That where an item is funded in applicable appropriations
 Acts for the fiscal year 1990 and not included in the version passed by
 the House as of October 1, 1990, the pertinent project or activity shall be
 continued under the appropriation, fund, or authority granted by applicable
 appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1990, at a rate for operations not
 exceeding the current rate and under the authority and conditions provided
 in applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year 1990.
 SEC. 102.  Such amounts as may be necessary to continue existing programs and
 activities (not otherwise specifically provided for in this joint resolution)
 which were conducted in fiscal year 1990, under the appropriation, fund,
 or authority granted by applicable appropriations Acts for the fiscal year
 1990, at a rate for operations not exceeding the current rate and under
 the authority and conditions provided in applicable appropriations Acts for
 the fiscal year 1990, for which provision was made in the following Acts:
 The Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
 1990, and the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1990.
 SEC. 103. Such amounts as may be necessary to continue existing programs
 and activities, which were conducted in fiscal year 1990, for which
 provision was made in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1990,
 but such activities shall be funded at not to exceed an annual rate for
 new obligational authority of $265,369,000,000, and this level shall be
 distributed on a pro rata basis to each appropriation account utilizing the
 fiscal year 1991 amended budget request as the base for such distribution
 and shall be available under the terms and conditions provided for in
 the applicable appropriations Acts for fiscal year 1990, notwithstanding
 section 502(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947:  Provided, That
 no appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant
 to this section shall be used for new production of items not funded
 for production in fiscal year 1990 or prior years, for the increase
 in production rates above those sustained with fiscal year 1990 funds,
 or to initiate, resume, or continue any project, activity, operation,
 or organization which are defined as any project, subproject, activity,
 budget activity, program element, and subprogram within a program element
 and for investment items are further defined as a P-1 line item in a budget
 activity within an appropriation account and an R-1 line item which includes
 a program element and subprogram element within an appropriation account,
 for which appropriations, funds, or other authority were not available
 during the fiscal year 1990, except projects, activities, operations,
 or organizations relating to `Operation Desert Shield': Provided further,
 That no appropriation or funds made available or authority granted pursuant
 to this section shall be used to initiate multi-year procurements utilizing
 advance procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless
 specifically appropriated later:  Provided further,  That no appropriation
 or funds made available or authority granted pursuant to this section for
 procurement and research, development, test, and evaluation, shall be used
 to fund any program, project, activity, operation, or organization at a
 rate for operations in excess of the current rate or the rate provided for
 in the budget estimates for fiscal year 1991, whichever is lower, during
 fiscal year 1991, except programs, projects, activities, operations, or
 organizations relating to `Operation Desert Shield'.
 SEC. 104. Notwithstanding any other provision of this joint resolution,
 such amounts as may be necessary to continue the Aerostat Program of the
 United States Customs Service which was conducted in fiscal year 1990 at a
 rate of operations not exceeding the current rate and under the authority
 and conditions provided in the applicable appropriations Act for the fiscal
 year 1990.
 SEC. 105. Appropriations made by sections 101, 102, 103, and 104 shall be
 available to the extent and in the manner which would be provided by the
 pertinent appropriations Act.
 SEC. 106. No appropriation or funds made available or authority granted
 pursuant to sections 101, 102, 103, and 104 shall be used to initiate or
 resume any project or activity for which appropriations, funds, or other
 authority were not available during the fiscal year 1990.
 SEC. 107.  No provision which is included in an appropriations Act enumerated
 in section 101 but which was not included in the applicable appropriations Act
 for fiscal year 1990, and which by its terms is applicable to more than one
 appropriation, fund, or authority shall be applicable to any appropriation,
 fund, or authority provided in this joint resolution.
 SEC. 108. Unless otherwise provided for in this joint resolution or in
 the applicable appropriations Act, appropriations and funds made available
 and authority granted pursuant to this joint resolution shall be available
 until (a) enactment into law of an appropriation for any project or activity
 provided for in this joint resolution, or (b) the enactment of the applicable
 appropriations Act by both Houses without any provision for such project
 or activity, or (c) October 19, 1990, whichever first occurs.
 SEC. 109. Appropriations made and authority granted pursuant to this joint
 resolution shall cover all obligations or expenditures incurred for any
 program, project, or activity during the period for which funds or authority
 for such project or activity are available under this joint resolution.
 SEC. 110. Expenditures made pursuant to this joint resolution shall be
 charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever
 a bill in which such applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization is
 contained is enacted into law.
 SEC. 111. No provision in any appropriations Act for the fiscal year
 1991 referred to in section 101 of this joint resolution that makes the
 availability of any appropriation provided therein dependent upon the
 enactment of additional authorizing or other legislation shall be effective
 before the date set forth in section 108(c) of this joint resolution.
 SEC. 112. Appropriations and funds made available by or authority granted
 pursuant to this joint resolution may be used without regard to the time
 limitations for submission and approval of apportionments set forth in section
 1513 of title 31, United States Code, but nothing herein shall be construed
 to waive any other provision of law governing the apportionment of funds.
 SEC. 113. (a) Any order on sequestration for fiscal year 1991 issued before,
 on, or after the date of enactment of this joint resolution pursuant to
 section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
 1985 is suspended and no action shall be taken to implement any such order.
 (b) Subsection (a) shall cease to be effective on the date set forth in
 section 108(c).
EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY INCREASE IN PUBLIC DEBT LIMIT
 SEC. 114. Section 1 of Public Law 101-350 is amended by striking `October 6,
 1990' and inserting `October 19, 1990'.
 SEC. 115. (a) It is the sense of Congress that the date by which committees
 should report their reconciliation language to their respective Budget
 Committees should be October 12.
 (b) The Budget Committees should report the reconciliation bills no later
 than close of business October 13.
 (c) It is the sense of the Senate that the Senate should begin consideration
 of the reconciliation bill on the first day of session following its report
 by the Budget Committee.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.