 
--H.R.4773--
H.R.4773
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the President to call and conduct a National White House
Conference
on Small Business.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may be cited as the
 `White House Conference on Small Business Authorization Act'.
AUTHORIZATION OF CONFERENCE3
 SEC. 2. (a) The President shall call and conduct a National White House
 Conference on Small Business (hereinafter referred to as the `National
 Conference') not earlier than January 1, 1994, and not later than April 1,
 1994, to carry out the purposes described in section 3 of this Act. The
 National Conference shall be preceded by State conferences, with at least one
 such conference being held in each State, and with at least two conferences
 being held in any State with a population of ten million or more. The State
 conferences shall be held not earlier than December 1, 1992, and at their
 conclusion shall be followed by regional meetings of delegates in at least
 six cities prior to the National Conference.
 (b) Participants in the National Conference and other interested individuals
 and organizations, are authorized to conduct activities at the State and
 regional level prior to the date of the National Conference, and shall
 direct such activities toward the consideration of the purposes of the
 National Conference.
 (c) The National Conference shall be conducted under the general supervision
 and direction of the White House Conference on Small Business Commission
 (hereinafter referred to as the `Commission') established in section 5 of
 this Act.
PURPOSE OF CONFERENCE
 SEC. 3. The purpose of the National Conference shall be to increase public
 awareness of the essential contribution of small business; to identify the
 problems of small business; to examine the status of minorities and women as
 small business owners; to assist small business in carrying out its role as
 the Nation's job creator; to assemble small businesses (particularly those
 who are not actively involved in small business or trade organizations) to
 develop such specific and comprehensive recommendations for executive and
 legislative action as may be appropriate for maintaining and encouraging
 the economic viability of small business and, thereby, the Nation; and
 to review the status of recommendations adopted at the 1986 White House
 Conference on Small Business.
CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS
 SEC. 4. (a) In order to carry out the purposes specified in section 3 of
 this Act, the National Conference shall bring together individuals concerned
 with issues relating to small business: Provided, That no owner, officer or
 employee of a small business concern may be denied admission to any State
 conference, nor may any fee or charge be imposed on any such owner, officer
 or employee except an amount to cover the cost of any meal provided plus
 a registration fee of not to exceed $10. The Commission may not impose any
 fees or charges except as specified in this subsection and may not accept
 any gifts of money from any source. Amounts collected as fees and charges
 shall be used solely to pay the cost of meals provided and to defray the
 expense of meeting rooms. The Commission shall--
 (1) keep a record of all receipts and disbursements as directed by the
 Administrator of the Small Business Administration;
 (2) open and maintain an account in an institution whose accounts are insured
 by an instrumentality of the United States, into which account all receipts
 shall be deposited and from which all payments shall be disbursed; and
 (3) provide such periodic financial reports to the Small Business
 Administration as the Administrator may request.
 (b) Delegates, including alternates, to the National Conference shall be
 elected by participants at the State conferences: Provided, That each Governor
 and each chief executive official of the political subdivisions enumerated
 in section 4(a) of the Small Business Act may appoint one delegate and one
 alternate: Provided further, That each Member of the United States House of
 Representatives, including each Delegate, and each Member of the United States
 Senate may appoint one delegate and one alternate: and Provided further, That
 the President may appoint one hundred delegates and alternates. Only owners,
 employees or corporate officers of small businesses shall be eligible for
 appointment or election pursuant to this subsection, and delegates may be
 elected only at the conference for the State in which he or she resides.
COMMISSION
 SEC. 5. (a) There is hereby established a White House Conference on
 Small Business Commission. The President shall select and appoint eleven
 individuals. The commissioners shall be responsible for the overall
 preparation for and conduct of the National Conference, including the
 issuance of the report specified in section 7 of this Act.
 (b) At least seven of the individuals appointed shall be small business
 owners, employees or corporate officers of a small business. Other members
 may include representatives of businesses (other than small), associations,
 or educational institutions.
 (c) Not more than six of the Commissioners shall be of the same political
 party. No member shall be an officer or employee of the Federal Government,
 in either the executive branch or the Congress.
 (d) Commissioners shall be appointed for a term which shall expire on the
 date the report is submitted, except if the status of any such appointee
 changes so that he or she would have been ineligible for appointment, such
 individual may continue as a Commissioner for not longer than a thirty-day
 period beginning on the date such individual becomes ineligible.
 (e) A vacancy shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment
 was made.
 (f) Commissioners shall serve without pay, except they shall be entitled to
 reimbursement for travel, subsistence, and other necessary expenses incurred
 by them in carrying out their functions in the same manner as persons employed
 intermittently in the Federal Goverment are allowed expenses under section
 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
 (g) Six Commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
 business. Meetings shall be at the call of the Chairperson who shall be
 designated by the President.
 (h) The Commission shall have an executive director who shall be appointed by
 the Chairperson, and such other staff as it deems appropriate. The executive
 director and other personnel may be appointed without regard to section
 531(b) of title 5, United States Code, and without regard to the provisions
 of such title governing appointments in the competitive service, and may
 be paid without regard to the provisions of chapter 51  and subchapter III
 of chapter 53 of such title relating to classification and General Schedule
 pay rates, except that no individual so appointed may receive pay in excess
 of the annual rate of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
 (i) The Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under
 section 3109(b) of title 5 of the United States Code but at rates for
 individuals not to exceed the daily equivalent of the maximum annual rate
 of basic pay payable for GS-18 of the General Schedule.
 (j) Upon request of the Chairperson, the head of any Federal department or
 agency may detail, on a reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of such
 department or agency to the Commission to assist in carrying out the National
 Conference without regard to section 3341 of title 5 of the United States
 Code. Except as otherwise prohibited by law, the Commission may secure
 directly from any department or agency of the United States information
 necessary to enable it to carry out its duties under this Act. Upon the
 request of the Chairperson, the head of such department or agency shall
 promptly furnish such information to the Commission.
 (k) The Administrator of the General Service Administration shall provide
 to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, such administrative support
 services as the Commission may request.
PLANNING AND ADMINISTRATION OF CONFERENCE
 SEC. 6. (a) In order to facilitate the carrying out of the provisions of
 this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration--
 (1) shall provide such assistance as may be necessary for the organization
 and conduct of conferences at the State and regional levels as authorized
 under section 2 of this Act;
 (2) is authorized to enter into contracts with public agencies, private
 organizations, business entities and academic institutions to carry out the
 provisions of this Act: Provided, That the Administrator shall coordinate
 any such contracting in advance with the Commission if it has met and
 organized; and
 (3) shall prescribe such financial controls and accounting procedures for
 the handling of income received by the Commission as fees and charges and
 the payment by the Commission of authorized meal and meeting room expenses.
 (b) The Chief Counsel for Advocacy shall assist in carrying out the
 provisions of this Act by preparing and providing background materials for
 use by participants in the National Conference, as well as by participants
 in State and regional conferences.
 (c) The White House Conference on Small Business Commission shall conduct
 appropriate outreach efforts to obtain the participation, at both State
 conferences and at the National Conference, of individuals who are not
 actively involved in small business or trade organizations.
 (d) EXPENSES- (1) Each delegate to the National Conference shall pay his or
 her expenses of attending the Conference. However, prior to the National
 Conference, any delegate may seek reimbursement from the Conference upon
 written application establishing that his or her anticipated expenses would
 constitute a financial burden.
 (2) The Commission shall adopt rules, guidelines, and procedures to
 implement this provision. No delegate shall be reimbursed for any expense
 except transportation, meals and lodging and shall not be reimbursed at
 more than the rates provided to employees of the Federal Government who
 travel to Washington, DC, on official business during the time when the
 National Conference is held.
 (3) At the beginning of each State conference, all attendees shall be advised
 of this provision and any rules or procedures adopted by the Commission to
 implement it.
 (4) A separate accounting for these reimbursed expenses shall be provided
 to the Small Business Administration.
REPORTS REQUIRED
 SEC. 7. (a) Not more than four months from the date on which the National
 Conference is convened, a final report of the National Conference shall be
 submitted to the President and the Congress. The report shall include the
 findings and recommendations of the delegates as well as proposals for any
 legislative action necessary to implement their recommendations. The report
 shall be available to the public.
 (b) At the same time, the Commission shall--
 (1) provide a final financial report to the Small Business Administration
 and shall deliver to the Agency all of its financial books and records; and
 (2) deposit in the Treasury of the United States, for crediting as
 miscellaneous receipts, any monies collected as fees and charges pursuant
 to the authority of this Act which remain unexpended.
FOLLOWUP ACTIONS
 SEC. 8. The Small Business Administration shall report to the Congress
 annually during the three-year period following the submission of the final
 report of the National Conference on the status and implementation of the
 findings and recommendations.
AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS
 SEC. 9. (a) There are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal
 year 1992, or any year thereafter, not to exceed $5,000,000 to carry out
 the provisions of this Act, and such sums shall remain available until
 expended. New spending authority or authority to enter contracts as provided
 in this Act shall be effective only to such extent and in such amounts as
 are provided in advance in appropriations Acts.
 (b) No funds appropriated to the Small Business Administration shall be
 made available to carry out the provisions of this Act other than funds
 appropriated specifically for the purpose of conducting the National
 Conference. Any funds remaining unexpended at the termination of the
 National Conference, including submission of the report pursuant to section
 7, shall be returned to the Treasury of the United States and credited as
 miscellaneous receipts.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.