 
--H.R.4834--
H.R.4834
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for a visitor center at Salem Maritime National Historic Site in the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. VISITOR CENTER FOR THE SALEM MARITIME NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
 Section 1(b) of the Act entitled `An Act to revise the boundaries of Salem
 Maritime National Historic Site in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
 and for other purposes' (102 Stat. 659) is amended--
 (1) by striking `LANDS- The' and inserting `LANDS- (1) The'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary may acquire under this
 subsection property or an interest therein in the city of Salem for use
 as a visitor center for the national historic site. The Secretary shall
 conduct an economic analysis of the costs and benefits of acquiring such
 property or interest therein. Funds appropriated for the development and
 operation of the visitor center may be expended on property in which the
 Secretary has acquired less than a fee simple interest.
 `(B)(i) Any acquisition under this paragraph shall provide that--
 `(I) under any lease, the leased period shall not be less than 25 years
 and shall contain an option to renew for an addtional 25 years;
 `(II) the owner of the property shall maintain the property to a standard
 acceptable to the Secretary;
 `(III) under any lease, rental amounts paid by the Secretary may not exceed
 the fair market value of the leased premises, as determined by an independent
 party acceptable to both the lessor and the Secretary; and
 `(IV) under any lease, rental payments be reduced by the fair market value
 of improvements in the leased premises made by or at the expense of the
 Secretary.
 `(ii) The Secretary may not acquire an interest in more than 12,000 square
 feet under this paragraph.
 `(iii) The Secretary shall submit the economic analysis, together with any
 proposed acquisition, to the appropriate committees of Congress for their
 review at least 120 days before the effective date of such acquisition.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.