 
--H.R.4111--
H.R.4111
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Mining and Mineral Resources Research Institute Act of 1984,
and for
other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Strategic and Critical Minerals Act of 1990'.
SEC. 2. ESTABLISHMENT OF GENERIC CENTER.
 The Mining and Mineral Resources Research Institute Act of 1984 (30
 U.S.C. 1221 and following) is amended by adding the following new section
 at the end thereof:
`SEC. 12. STRATEGIC RESOURCES GENERIC MINERAL TECHNOLOGY CENTER.
 `(a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Interior is authorized and directed
 to establish a Strategic Resources Mineral Technology Center (hereinafter
 referred to as the `center') for the purpose of improving existing, and
 developing new, technologies that will decrease the dependence of the United
 States on supplies of strategic and critical minerals.
 `(b) FUNCTIONS- The center shall--
 `(1) provide for studies and technology development in the areas of mineral
 extraction and refining processes, product substitution and conservation of
 mineral resources through recycling and advanced processing and fabrication
 methods;
 `(2) identify new deposits of strategic and critical mineral resources; and
 `(3) facilitate the transfer of information, studies, and technologies
 developed by the center to the private sector.
 `(c) CRITERIA- The Secretary shall establish the center referred to in
 subsection (a) at a university that--
 `(1) does not currently host a generic mineral technology center;
 `(2) has established advanced degree programs in geology and geological
 engineering, and metallurgical and mining engineering;
 `(3) has expertise in materials and advanced processing research; and
 `(4) is located west of the 100th meridian.
 `(d) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There is authorized to be appropriated
 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.