 
--H.R.1805--
H.R.1805
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend title 5, United States Code, to allow Federal annuitants to make
contributions for health benefits through direct payments rather than through
annuity withholdings if the annuity is insufficient to cover the required
withholdings, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. HEALTH BENEFITS.
 (a) AUTHORITY FOR DIRECT PAYMENTS- Section 8906 of title 5, United States
 Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
 `(i) An annuitant whose annuity is insufficient to cover the withholdings
 required for enrollment in a particular health benefits plan may enroll
 (or remain enrolled) in such plan, notwithstanding any other provision
 of this section, if the annuitant elects, under conditions prescribed
 by regulations of the Office, to pay currently into the Employees Health
 Benefits Fund, through the retirement system that administers the annuitant's
 health benefits enrollment, an amount equal to the withholdings that would
 otherwise be required under this section.'.
 (b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- Section 8906 of title 5, United
 States Code, is further amended--
 (1) in subsection (c), by inserting `except as provided in subsection (i)
 of this section)' before `the annuity'; and
 (2) in subsection (d), by inserting `(except as provided in subsection (i)
 of this section)' before `from the annuity'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on the date of enactment of this Act. Any annuitant whose enrollment was
 terminated at any time before such date on account of such annuitant's
 annuity being insufficient to cover the amount of the required withholdings
 may, under regulations prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management,
 be prospectively reinstated in any available health benefits plan upon
 application of the annuitant.
SEC. 2. TECHNICAL CORRECTION IN LIFE INSURANCE PROVISIONS.
 Section 8708 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the
 end the following:
 `(d)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, for each period
 in which an employee continues life insurance after retirement or while in
 receipt of compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of this title because
 of disease or injury to the employee, as provided under section 8706(b)
 of this title, a sum equal to one-half of the amount which is withheld from
 the employee's annuity or compensation under section 8707 of this title shall
 be contributed by the Office from annual appropriations which are authorized
 to be made for that purpose and which may be made available until expended.
 `(2) Contributions under this subsection--
 `(A) shall not be made other than with respect to individuals who retire,
 or commence receiving compensation, after December 31, 1989;
 `(B) shall not be made with respect to any individual for months after the
 calendar month in which such individual becomes 65 years of age; and
 `(C) shall, in the case of any individual who elects coverage under
 subparagraph (B) of section 8706(b)(3) of this title, be equal to the
 amount which would apply under this subsection if such individual had
 instead elected coverage under subparagraph (A) of such section.
 `(3) The United States Postal Service shall pay the contributions required
 under this subsection with respect to any individual who--
 `(A) first becomes an annuitant by reason of retirement from employment
 with the United States Postal Service after December 31, 1989; or
 `(B) commences receiving compensation under subchapter I of chapter 81 of
 this title (because of disease or injury to the individual) after December
 31, 1989, if the position last held by the individual before commencing to
 receive such compensation was within the United States Postal Service.'.
SEC. 3. REDUCTION IN AGE REQUIREMENT FOR WIDOWS AND WIDOWERS FOR RECEIVING
CERTAIN COMPENSATION UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES' COMPENSATION SYSTEM.
 Chapter 81, of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
 (1) in section 8133(b)(1) by striking out `age 60' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `age 55'; and
 (2) in section 8135(b) by striking out `age 60' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `age 55'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.