 
--H.R.1860--
H.R.1860
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To provide that a Federal annuitant or former member of a uniformed service
who returns to Government service, under a temporary appointment, to assist
in carrying out the 1990 decennial census of population shall be exempt from
certain provisions of title 5, United States Code, relating to offsets from
pay and other benefits.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS; DESCRIPTION OF TEMPORARY POSITIONS.
 (a) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this Act--
 (1) the term `annuitant' means an annuitant within the meaning of section
 8331(9) or 8401(2) of title 5, United States Code;
 (2) the term `temporary' is used in the same way as described in section
 24(b) of title 13, United States Code;
 (3) the term `census of population' has the meaning given that term by
 section 141(g) of title 13, United States Code;
 (4) the term `active employee' means an employee within the meaning of
 section 8331(1) or 8401(11) of title 5, United States Code;
 (5) the term `retired or retainer pay' has the meaning given that term by
 section 5531(3) of title 5, United States Code; and
 (6) the term `uniformed services' has the meaning given that term by section
 2101(3) of title 5, United States Code.
 (b) DESCRIPTION OF TEMPORARY POSITIONS- This Act applies with respect to
 service in any temporary position within the Bureau of the Census established
 for purposes relating to the 1990 decennial census of population (as
 determined under regulations which the Secretary of Commerce shall prescribe).
SEC. 2. EXEMPTION FOR REEMPLOYED ANNUITANTS.
 (a) GENERALLY- Subject to subsection (b), an annuitant who becomes reemployed
 in a temporary position described in section 1(b) shall, with respect to
 any period of service in such position, be exempt from section 8344 or 8468
 of title 5, United States Code (as otherwise applicable).
 (b) EXCEPTIONS- This section--
 (1) shall not apply with respect to any annuitant who, immediately before
 being placed in the temporary position, was employed in a Government
 position in which pay for that annuitant was being reduced under either of
 the provisions referred to in subsection (a); and
 (2) shall not have the effect of exempting a reemployed annuitant from
 section 8344 or 8468 of title 5, United States Code, after the expiration
 of the period described in section 4.
 (c) CLARIFICATION- Nothing in this section shall have the effect of causing
 a reemployed annuitant to be treated as an active employee for purposes of
 any provision of chapter 83 or 84 of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 3. EXEMPTION FOR FORMER MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
 (a) Subject to subsection (b), the retired or retainer pay of a former
 member of a uniformed service employed in a temporary position described in
 section 1(b) shall, with respect to any period of service in such position,
 be exempt from section 5532 of title 5, United States Code.
 (b) This section--
 (1) shall not apply with respect to any former member of a uniformed service
 if, immediately before being placed in the temporary position, the retired
 or retainer pay of such former member was being reduced under section 5532
 of title 5, United States Code (or would have been reduced but for subsection
 (d)(2) of such section); and
 (2) shall not have the effect of exempting a former member of a uniformed
 service from section 5532 of title 5, United States Code, after the expiration
 of the period described in section 4.
 (c) For purposes of this section, the term `former member of a uniformed
 service' means a member or former member of a uniformed service.
SEC. 4. LIMITATION.
 An exemption under section 2 or 3 shall not, in the case of any individual,
 apply longer than--
 (A) the first period of 6 calendar months for which the individual receives
 pay for service in any temporary position described in section 1(b), if
 the individual serves under not more than one appointment; or
 (B) if the individual serves under more than one appointment, the first period
 of 6 calendar months (determined in the aggregate) for which the individual
 receives pay for service in any temporary position described in section 1(b).
SEC. 5. APPLICABILITY.
 This Act applies with respect to appointments made on or after the date
 of enactment of this Act, but does not apply with respect to any service
 performed after December 31, 1990.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate. d States Code.
SEC. 3. EXEMPTION FOR FORMER MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
 (a) Subject to subsection (b), the retired or retainer pay of a former
 member of a uniformed service employed in a temporary position described in
 section 1(b) shall, with respect to any period of service in such position,
 be exempt from section 5532 of title 5, United States Code.
 (b) This section--
 (1) shall not apply with respect to an