 
--H.R.1486--
H.R.1486
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE FIRST SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the third day of January,
one thousand nine hundred and eighty-nine
An Act
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1990 for the Maritime
Administration,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
AUTHORIZATIONS FOR MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
 SECTION 1. In fiscal year 1990, the following amounts are authorized to be
 appropriated for the Maritime Administration:
 (1) any amounts necessary to liquidate obligations under
 operating-differential subsidy contracts for the fiscal year 1990 portion
 of the total of current contract authority;
 (2) $3,750,000 for research and development activities, to remain available
 until expended, including--
 (A) $2,250,000 for vessel design and shipyard studies; and
 (B) $1,500,000 for other research;
 (3) $33,205,000 for expenses related to manpower, education, and training,
 including--
 (A) $23,157,000 for maritime training at the Merchant Marine Academy at
 Kings Point, New York;
 (B) $8,670,000 for assistance to the State maritime academies and the
 current fleet of five training ships; and
 (C) $1,378,000 for manpower and additional training;
 (4) $25,966,000 for operating programs, including--
 (A) $17,853,000 for general administration;
 (B) $957,000 for development of water transportation systems; and
 (C) $7,156,000 for use of water transportation systems; and
 (5) such sums as are necessary for expenses related to national security
 support capabilities, including--
 (A) fleet additions, replacements, acquisitions, and upgrading of vessels
 for the Ready Reserve Force, maintenance and operations programs in support
 of the Ready Reserve Force, Ready Reserve Force facilities, Ready Reserve
 Force vessel conversions, and other programs in the National Defense Reserve
 Fleet; and
 (B) emergency planning operations.
STUDENT INCENTIVE PAYMENT AGREEMENTS
 SEC. 2. (a) Section 1304(g)(1) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(g)(1)), is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking `and' the second place it appears;
 (2) by striking subparagraph (C); and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(C) paid by the Secretary to the individual for the first complete or partial
 academic year of attendance in a lump sum of $1,200 or in amounts prorated
 on the basis of actual attendance, and at a time during the second academic
 year when the individual enters into an agreement accepting midshipman and
 enlisted reserve status as required under paragraph (2); and
 `(D) paid by the Secretary, for the academic years after those years specified
 in subparagraph (C), as the Secretary shall prescribe while the individual
 is attending the academy.'.
 (b) Section 1304(g)(2) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(g)(2)), is amended by striking `apply for midshipman'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `accept midshipman and enlisted reserve'.
 (c) Section 1304(g)(3)(D) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(g)(3)(D)), is amended by striking `to apply for an
 appointment as,'.
 (d) Section 1304(g)(4) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(g)(4)), is amended by striking `has attended a State
 maritime academy for not less than 2 years' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `has accepted the payment described in paragraph (1)(C) of this subsection'.
 (e) The amendments made by this section apply to individuals who commence
 attendance after December 31, 1989, at a State maritime academy in accordance
 with section 1304 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1295c).
COAST GUARD EXAMINATION REQUIREMENT
 SEC. 3. (a) Section 1304(f)(1) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(f)(1)), is amended--
 (1) by striking `and' at the end of subparagraph (A);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (B) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(C) agree in writing to require, as a condition for graduation, that each
 individual who is a citizen of the United States and who is attending the
 academy in a merchant marine officer preparation program shall pass the
 examination administered by the Coast Guard required for issuance of a
 license under section 7101 of title 46, United States Code.'.
 (b) The requirement set forth in subsection (f)(1)(C) of section 1304 of
 the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as added by subsection (a) of this section,
 shall be a condition to any payment or use of any vessel received by a
 State maritime academy under such section 1304 after December 31, 1989.
study
 SEC. 4. With the funds authorized under this Act, the Secretary of
 Transportation, after consultation with other agencies in the executive
 branch and the State, regional, and Federal maritime academies, shall
 submit to the Congress a study within one year to determine how currently
 employed training vessels, United States-flag commercial vessels, vessels in
 the Ready Reserve Force, and other vessels under the control of the United
 States Government may be used to provide training opportunities for State,
 regional, and Federal maritime academy students that will produce licensed
 graduate officers. The study shall include data on the cost effectiveness
 to the United States Government; the cost impact on the affected State
 governments; the safety of any vessels involved; the safety of the students;
 the operational and scheduling impact upon the several entities involved;
 liability exposure; and the impact on national security sealift. The Secretary
 shall not implement any ship sharing program until not less than sixty days
 after the submission of the study to the Congress.
PAYMENTS TO MARITIME ACADEMIES
 SEC. 5. Section 1304(d)(1) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1295c(d)(1)) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating the existing text as subparagraph (A);
 (2) by striking the second sentence of subparagraph (A) as so redesignated;
 and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(B) Subject to subparagraph (C), the annual payment to such State maritime
 academy shall be at least equal to the amount given to the academy for its
 maintenance and support by the State in which it is located, and to such
 regional maritime academy shall be at least equal to the amount given the
 academy by all States and territories cooperating to sponsor the academy.
 `(C) The amount under subparagraph (B) may not be more than $25,000, except
 that the amount shall be--
 `(i) $100,000 to such State maritime academy if the academy meets the
 condition set forth in subsection (f)(2); or
 `(ii) $200,000 to such regional maritime academy if the academy meets the
 condition set forth in subsection (f)(2).'.
NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET
 SEC. 6. Section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50
 App. U.S.C. 1744) is amended to read as follows:
`NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET
 `SEC. 11. (a) The Secretary of Transportation shall maintain a National
 Defense Reserve Fleet, including any vessel assigned by the Secretary to the
 Ready Reserve Force component of the fleet, consisting of those vessels
 owned or acquired by the United States Government that the Secretary
 of Transportation, after consultation with the Secretary of the Navy,
 determines are of value for national defense purposes and that the Secretary
 of Transportation decides to place and maintain in the fleet.
 `(b) Except as otherwise provided by law, a vessel in the fleet may be used--
 `(1) for an account of an agency of the United States Government in a period
 during which vessels may be requisitioned under section 902 of the Merchant
 Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1242); or
 `(2) on the request of the Secretary of the Navy, and in accordance with
 memoranda of agreement between the Secretary of Transportation and the
 Secretary of Defense, for--
 `(A) testing for readiness and suitability for mission performance;
 `(B) defense sealift functions for which other sealift assets are not
 reasonably available; and
 `(C) support of the deployment of the United States armed forces in a
 military contingency, for military contingency operations, or for civil
 contingency operations upon orders from the National Command Authority;
 `(3) for otherwise lawfully permitted storage or transportation of
 non-defense-related cargo as directed by the Secretary of Transportation
 with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense; or
 `(4) for training purposes to the extent authorized by the Secretary of
 Transportation with the concurrence of the Secretary of Defense.
 `(c) The Secretary of Transportation shall not require bid, payment,
 performance, payment and performance, or completion bonds from contractors
 for repair, alteration, or maintenance of vessels of the National Defense
 Reserve Fleet unless--
 `(1) required by law; or
 `(2) the Secretary determines, after investigation, that the imposition
 of such bonding requirements would not preclude any responsible potential
 bidder or offeror from competing for award of the contract.'.
WAR RISK INSURANCE
 SEC. 7. (a) Section 1202 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46
 App. U.S.C. 1282), is amended by adding at the end the following new
 subsection:
 `(c) Insurance and reinsurance for vessels may be provided by the Secretary
 under this title only on the condition that such vessels be available for
 the United States in time of war or national emergency.'.
 (b) Section 1214 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 (46 App. U.S.C. 1294),
 is amended by striking `1990' and substituting `1995'.
NATIONAL MARITIME ENHANCEMENT INSTITUTES
 SEC. 8. (a) The Secretary of Transportation may designate National Maritime
 Enhancement Institutes.
 (b) Activities undertaken by such an Institute may include--
 (1) conducting research concerning methods for improving the performance
 of maritime industries;
 (2) enhancing the competitiveness of domestic maritime industries in
 international trade;
 (3) forecasting trends in maritime trade;
 (4) assessing technological advancements;
 (5) developing management initiatives and training;
 (6) analyzing economic and operational impacts of regulatory policies and
 international negotiations or agreements pending before international bodies;
 (7) assessing the compatibility of domestic maritime infrastructure systems
 with overseas transport systems;
 (8) fostering innovations in maritime transportation pricing; and
 (9) improving maritime economics and finance.
 (c) An institution seeking designation as a National Maritime Enhancement
 Institute shall submit an application under regulations prescribed by
 the Secretary.
 (d) The Secretary shall designate an Institute under this section on the
 basis of the following criteria:
 (1) the demonstrated research and extension resources available to the
 designee for carrying out the activities specified in subsection (b);
 (2) the capability of the designee to provide leadership in making national
 and regional contributions to the solution of both long-range and immediate
 problems of the domestic maritime industry;
 (3) the existence of an established program of the designee encompassing
 research and training directed to enhancing maritime industries;
 (4) the demonstrated ability of the designee to assemble and evaluate
 pertinent information from national and international sources and to
 disseminate results of maritime industry research and educational programs
 through a continuing education program; and
 (5) the qualification of the designee as a nonprofit institution of higher
 learning.
 (e) The Secretary may make research grants, on an equal matching basis,
 to an institute from amounts appropriated pursuant to section 1(2)(B). The
 aggregate amount of such grants shall not exceed $100,000.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.