 
--H.R.1396--
H.R.1396
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To amend the Federal securities laws in order to facilitate cooperation
between the
United States and foreign countries in securities law enforcement.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT  TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Securities  Acts Amendments of 1990'.
TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION
SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.
 This  title may be cited as the `Securities and Exchange Commission
 Authorization Act of 1990'.
SEC. 102. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 Section 35 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78kk) is
 amended to read as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC.  35. There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the functions,
 powers, and duties of the Commission--
 `(1) $178,023,000  for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990; and
 `(2) $212,609,000 for the fiscal  year ending September 30, 1991.'.
SEC. 103. LEASING AUTHORITY OF SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION.
 Section 4(b)  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934  (15 U.S.C. 78d(b))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `(b)' and inserting  the following:
 `(b) APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION OF STAFF AND LEASING AUTHORITY-
 `(1)  APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION- '; and
 (2) by adding the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) LEASING AUTHORITY- Nothwithstanding any other provision of law, the
 Commission is  authorized to enter directly into leases for  real property
 for office, meeting, storage, and such other space as  is necessary to
 carry out its functions, and shall be exempt from any General Services
 Administration space  management regulations or directives.'.
SEC. 104. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.
 (a) THE PUBLIC UTILITY HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1935- Section 31 of the Public
 Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (15 U.S.C. 79z-5) is amended to read
 as follows:
`HIRING AND LEASING AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION
 `SEC. 31. The provisions of section 4(b) of  the Securities Exchange Act
 of  1934 shall be applicable with respect to the power of  the Commission--
 `(1) to appoint and fix  the compensation of such employees  as  may be
 necessary for carrying out its functions under this title, and
 `(2) to lease and allocate  such real property as may be necessary for
 carrying out its functions under  this title.'.
 (b) THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939- Section 321(d) of the Trust Indenture
 Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C.  77uuu(d) is amended to read  as follows:
 `(d) The provisions section 4(b)) of the Securities Exchange Act  of 1934
 shall be applicable with respect  to the power of the Commission--
 `(1) to  appoint and fix  the compensation of such employees as  may be
 necessary for carrying out its  functions under  this title, and
 `(2)  to lease and allocate such real property as may be  necessary for
 carrying out its functions under  this title.'.
 (c) THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT  OF 1940- Section 46(b)  of the Investment
 Company Act  of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-45(b)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) The provisions of section 4(b)  of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
 1934 shall be applicable  with respect to the power of the Commission--
 `(1) to appoint  and fix  the compensation of such employees as may be
 necessary for  carrying out  its functions under this title,  and
 `(2) to lease and allocate such real property as may be necessary for
 carrying out its functions under this title.'.
 (d) THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940- Section 218 of the Investment
 Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-18) is amended to read as follows:
`HIRING AND LEASING AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION
 `SEC.  218. The provisions of section 4(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
 of 1934 shall be applicable with respect to the power of the Commission--
 `(1) to appoint and fix the compensation of such other employees as may be
 necessary for carrying out its functions  under this title, and
 `(2) to lease  and allocate such real property as may be necessary for
 carrying out its functions under this title.'.
TITLE II--INTERNATIONAL SECURITIES LAW ENFORCEMENT
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `International Securities  Enforcement
 Cooperation Act of 1990'.
SEC. 202. RELEASE OF RECORDS BY THE COMMISSION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Section 24 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
 U.S.C. 78x) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (b), by striking `Nothing in this subsection shall
 authorize the Commission to withhold information from the Congress.'; and
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsections:
 `(c) CONFIDENTIAL DISCLOSURES- The Commission  may, in its discretion and
 upon  a showing that such information is needed, provide all `records'
 (as defined in subsection (a)) and other information in its possession to
 such persons, both domestic and foreign, as the Commission by  rule deems
 appropriate  if  the person receiving such records or information provides
 such  assurances of confidentiality as  the Commission deems appropriate.
 `(d) RECORDS OBTAINED FROM FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITIES- Except as provided
 in subsection (e), the Commission shall not be compelled to disclose records
 obtained from a foreign securities authority if (1) the foreign securities
 authority has in good faith determined and represented to the Commission
 that public disclosure of such records would violate the laws applicable
 to that foreign securities authority, and (2) the Commission obtains such
 records pursuant to (A) such procedure as the Commission may authorize for
 use in connection with the administration or  enforcement of the securities
 laws, or (B) a  memorandum of understanding. For purposes of section 552
 of title 5, United  States Code,  this subsection shall be considered a
 statute described in  subsection (b)(3)(B) of such section 552.
 `(e) SAVINGS PROVISIONS- Nothing in this section shall--
 `(1) alter the Commission's responsibilities under the Right to Financial
 Privacy Act  (12 U.S.C. 3401 et seq.), as limited by section 21(h) of this
 Act, with respect to transfers of records covered by such statutes, or
 `(2) authorize the Commission to withhold information from the Congress
 or prevent  the Commission from complying with an order of a court of the
 United States in an action commenced by the United States or the Commission.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS-
 (1) INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940- Section 45(a) of the Investment Company
 Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-44) is amended by striking `It shall be unlawful'
 and inserting `Except  as provided in section 24(c) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of  1934, it shall be unlawful'.
 (2) INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940- Section 210(b)  of the Investment
 Advisers Act of 1940 (15  U.S.C. 80b-10(b)) is amended by striking
 `subsections (c)  and (e) of section 209' and inserting `subsections (c)
 and (d) of section 209 of this title and section 24(c) of the Securities
 Exchange Act of 1934'.
SEC. 203. SANCTIONS AGAINST BROKER OR DEALER, ASSOCIATED  PERSONS, OR PERSONS
SEEKING ASSOCIATION.
 (a) AUTHORITY OF THE COMMISSION TO SANCTION BROKERS AND DEALERS  FOR FOREIGN
 VIOLATIONS- Section 15(b) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)) of the Securities Exchange
 Act of 1934 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (4)(B), by inserting after `misdemeanor' the following:
 `or of a substantially equivalent crime by a foreign court of competent
 jurisdiction';
 (2) in paragraph (4)(B)(i), by inserting after `burglary,' the following:
 `any substantially equivalent activity however  denominated by the laws of
 the relevant foreign government,';
 (3) in paragraph (4)(B)(ii)--
 (A) by inserting after `transfer agent,' the following: `foreign person
 performing a function substantially equivalent to any of the above,';
 (B) by inserting after `(7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.)' the following: `or any
 substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation';
 (4) in paragraph (4)(B)(iii), by inserting after `securities' the following:
 `, or substantially equivalent activity however denominated by the laws of
 the relevant foreign government';
 (5) in paragraph (4)(B)(iv), by inserting after `United States Code' the
 following: `, or  a violation of a substantially equivalent foreign statute';
 (6) in paragraph (4)(C)--
 (A) by inserting after `transfer agent,' the following: `foreign  person
 performing a function substantially equivalent to any of the above,';
 (B) by inserting after `Commodity Exchange Act' each time it appears the
 following: `or any substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation';
 and
 (C) by inserting after `insurance company,'  the following: `foreign entity
 substantially equivalent to  any of the above,';  and
 (7) by inserting after subparagraph (F) of paragraph (4) the following:
 `(G) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory authority to have--
 `(i) made or caused to be made in any application for registration or report
 required to be filed with a foreign financial regulatory authority, or in
 any proceeding before a foreign financial regulatory authority with respect
 to registration, any statement that was  at the time and in the light of the
 circumstances under which it was made false or  misleading  with respect to
 any material fact,  or has  omitted to state in any application or report
 to the foreign financial regulatory authority  any material fact  that is
 required to be stated therein;
 `(ii) violated any foreign statute or regulation regarding transactions
 in securities, or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery,
 traded  on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade;
 `(iii) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced,  or procured the
 violation by any person of any provision of any statutory provisions enacted
 by a foreign government, or rules or regulations thereunder, empowering a
 foreign financial regulatory authority regarding transactions  in securities,
 or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, traded on or
 subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade, or has
 been found, by a foreign  financial regulatory authority, to have failed
 reasonably to supervise, with a  view to preventing violations of such
 statutory provisions, rules, and regulations, another person who commits
 such a violation, if such other person is subject to his supervision.'.
 (b) EXTENSION OF DEFINITION OF STATUTORY DISQUALIFICATION TO INCLUDE FOREIGN
 VIOLATIONS- Section 3(a)(39) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)--
 (A) by inserting after `self-regulatory organization,' the following:
 `foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization, foreign or
 international securities exchange,';
 (B) by inserting after both `(7 U.S.C. 7),' and `(7 U.S.C.  21),', the
 following: `or any substantially equivalent foreign statute or regulation,';
 and
 (C) by inserting after `contract market', the following: `or foreign
 equivalent';
 (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
 `(B) is subject to--
 `(i) an order to the Commission, other appropriate regulatory agency,
 or foreign financial regulatory authority--
 `(I) denying, suspending for a period not exceeding 12 months, or revoking
 his  registration as a broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer,
 government securities broker, or government securities  dealer or limiting
 his activities as a foreign person  performing a function  substantially
 equivalent to any of the  above; or
 `(II) barring or suspending for  a period not exceeding 12 months his
 being associated with a  broker, dealer, municipal securities dealer,
 government securities broker, government securities dealer, or foreign
 person performing a function substantially equivalent  to  any of the above;
 `(ii) an order  of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission  denying,
 suspending, or revoking his registration under the Commodity Exchange Act
 (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.); or
 `(iii) an order by a foreign financial regulatory authority denying,
 suspending, or revoking the person's authority to engage in transactions in
 contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery or other instruments
 traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade,
 or foreign equivalent thereof;';
 (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (E) and
 (F), respectively;
 (4) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
 `(D) by his conduct while associated with any broker, dealer, municipal
 securities dealer, government securities broker, government securities
 dealer, or any other entity engaged in transactions in securities, or
 while associated with an entity engaged in transactions in contracts of
 sale of a commodity for future delivery or other instruments traded on
 or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade, or foreign
 equivalent thereof, has been found to be a cause of any effective suspension,
 expulsion, or order by a foreign or international securities exchange or
 foreign financial regulatory authority empowered by a foreign government
 to administer or enforce its laws relating to financial transactions as
 described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of this paragraph;';
 (5) in subparagraph (E) (as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this subsection)
 by striking `(A), (B), or (C)' and inserting `(A), (B), (C), or (D)'; and
 (6) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated) by striking `(D) or (E)' and
 inserting `(D), (E), or (G)' and by inserting after `such paragraph (4)'
 the first place it appears the following: `or any other felony'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- The Securities Exchange Act of 1944 (15 U.S.C. 78a
 et seq.) is amended--
 (1) in sections 15(b)(6), 15B(c)(2), 15B(c)(4), 15C(c)(1)(A), 15C(c)(1)(C),
 17A(c)(3)(A), and 17A(c)(4)(C), by striking `(A), (D), or (E)' and inserting
 `(A), (D), (E), or (G)'; and
 (2) in section 15C(f)(2), by striking `or the rules or regulations under
 any such other provision' and inserting `the rules or regulations under
 any such other provision, or investigations pursuant to section 21(a)(2)
 of this title to assist a foreign  securities authority'.
SEC. 204. DEFINITION OF FOREIGN FINANCIAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
 Section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(51) The term `foreign financial regulatory authority' means any (A) foreign
 securities authority, (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent
 of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to
 administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries,
 trusts, commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a
 commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject to
 the rules of a contract market, board of trade, or foreign equivalent, or
 other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a function of which
 is to regulate participation of its members in activities listed above.'.
SEC. 205. SANCTIONS AGAINST INVESTMENT ADVISERS OR PERSONS ASSOCIATED OR
SEEKING ASSOCIATION WITH A REGISTERED INVESTMENT ADVISER OR INVESTMENT COMPANY.
 (a) INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940- Section 9(b) of the Investment Company
 Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-9(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of paragraphs (1) and (2);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (3) and inserting a
 semicolon; and
 (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
 `(4) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory authority to have--
 `(A) made or caused to be made in any application for registration or
 report required to be filed with a foreign securities authority, or in any
 proceeding before a foreign securities authority with respect to registration,
 any statement that was at the time and in light of the circumstances under
 which it was made false or misleading with respect to any material fact,
 or has omitted to state in any application or report to a foreign securities
 authority any material fact that is required to be stated therein;
 `(B) violated any foreign statute or regulation regarding transactions in
 securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery traded
 on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade;
 `(C) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the
 violation by any other person of any foreign statute or regulation regarding
 transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future
 delivery traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any
 board of trade;
 `(5) within 10 years has been convicted by a foreign court of competent
 jurisdiction of a crime, however denominated by the laws of the relevant
 foreign government, that is substantially equivalent to an offense set
 forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (a); or
 `(6) by reason of any misconduct, is temporarily or permanently enjoined
 by any foreign court of competent jurisdiction from acting in any of the
 capacities, set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (a), or a substantially
 equivalent foreign capacity, or from engaging in or continuing any conduct
 or practice in connection with any such activity or in connection with the
 purchase or sale of any security.'.
 (b) INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940- Section 203(e) of the Investment
 Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(e)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (2) by inserting after `misdemeanor' the following: `or of a
 substantially equivalent crime by a foreign court of competent jurisdiction';
 (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting after `burglary,' the following:
 `any substantially equivalent activity however denominated by the laws of
 the relevant foreign government,';
 (3) in paragraphs (2)(B) and (3)--
 (A) by inserting after `transfer agent,' the following: `foreign person
 performing a function substantially equivalent to any of the above,'; and
 (B) after `Commodity Exchange Act' each place it appears, the following:
 `or any substantially equivalent statute or regulation';
 (4) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting after `securities' the following:
 `or substantially equivalent activity however denominated by the laws of
 the relevant foreign government';
 (5) in paragraph (2)(D) by inserting after `United States Code' the following:
 `, or a violation of substantially equivalent foreign statute';
 (6) in paragraph (3)--
 (A) by inserting after `court of competent jurisdiction' the following:
 `, including any foreign court of competent jurisdiction,'; and
 (B) by inserting after `insurance company,' the following: `foreign entity
 substantially equivalent to any of the above,';
 (7) in paragraph (5), by inserting after `this title,' the following:
 `the Commodity Exchange Act,'; and
 (8) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new paragraph:
 `(7) has been found by a foreign financial regulatory authority to have--
 `(A) made or caused to be made in any application for registration or
 report required to be filed with a foreign securities authority, or in any
 proceeding before a foreign securities authority with respect to registration,
 any statement that was at the time and in light of the circumstances under
 which it was made false or misleading with respect to any material fact,
 or has omitted to state in any application or report to a foreign securities
 authority any material fact that is required to be stated therein;
 `(B) violated any foreign statute or regulation regarding transactions in
 securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery traded
 on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board of trade;
 `(C) aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, induced, or procured the
 violation by any other person of any foreign statute or regulation regarding
 transactions in securities or contracts of sale of a commodity for future
 delivery traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market or any board
 of trade, or has been found, by the foreign finanical regulatory authority,
 to have failed reasonably to supervise, with a view to preventing violations
 of statutory provisions, and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder,
 another person who commits such a violation, if such other person is subject
 to his supervision.'.
 (c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of
 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-3(f)) is amended by striking `paragraph (1), (4), or
 (5)' and inserting `paragraph (1), (4), (5), or (7)'.
SEC. 206. DEFINITION OF FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITY AND FOREIGN FINANCIAL
REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
 (a) INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940- Section 2(a) of the Investment Company
 Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph
 (48) the following:
 `(49) `Foreign securities authority' means any foreign government or any
 governmental body or regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government
 to administer or enforce its laws as they relate to securities matters.
 `(50) `Foreign financial regulatory authority' means any (A) foreign
 securities authority, (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent
 of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to
 administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries,
 trusts, commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a
 commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject
 to the rules of a contract market, board of trade or foreign equivalent, or
 other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a function of which
 is to regulate the participation of its members in activities listed above.'.
 (b) INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940- Section 202(a) of the Investment
 Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80B-2(a)) is amended by inserting after
 paragraph (22) the following:
 `(23) `Foreign securities authority' means any foreign government, or any
 governmental body or regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government
 to administer or enforce its laws as they relate to securities matters.
 `(24) `Foreign financial regulatory authority' means any (A) foreign
 securities authority, (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent
 of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to
 administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries,
 trusts, commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a
 commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject
 to the rules of a contract market, board of trade or foreign equivalent, or
 other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a function of which
 is to regulate the participation of its members in activities listed above.'.
SEC. 207. REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED IN PROVIDING ASSISTANCE TO A
FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITY.
 Section 4 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78d) is amended
 by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(f) REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR ASSISTING FOREIGN SECURITIES AUTHORITIES-
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission may accept payment
 and reimbursement, in cash or in kind, from a foreign securities authority,
 or made on behalf of such authority, for necessary expenses incurred by the
 Commission, its members, and employees in carrying out any investigation
 pursuant to section 21(a)(2) of this title or in providing any other
 assistance to a foreign securities authority. Any payment or  reimbursement
 accepted shall be considered a reimbursement to the appropriated funds of
 the Commission.'.
TITLE III--SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS
SEC 301. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Shareholder Communications Improvement Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 302. AMENDMENTS TO 1934 ACT.
 (a) SECTION 14(b)- Section 14(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 (15 U.S.C. 78n(b)(1)) is amended by--
 (1) striking `section 12 of this title' and inserting `section 12 of this
 title, or any security issued by an investment company registered under
 the Investment Company Act of 1940,'; and
 (2) striking `or authorization' and inserting `authorization, or information
 statement'.
 (b) SECTION 14(c)- Section 14(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 (15 U.S.C. 78n(c)) is amended by striking `title' and inserting `title, or
 a security issued by an investment company registered under the Investment
 Company Act of 1940,'.
SEC. 303. EFFECTIVE DATE.
 The amendments made by section 302 of this title shall take effect upon
 the expiration of 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
TITLE IV--TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.
 This title may be cited as the `Trust Indenture Reform Act of 1990'.
SEC. 402. DEFINITION.
 Section 303(8) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ccc(8))
 is amended by inserting `section 305 or' after `provided for in'.
SEC. 403. EXEMPTION FROM QUALIFICATION.
 Section 304 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ddd) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)--
 (A) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting `(3).'; and
 (B) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking `, as heretofore amended,'; and
 (2) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
 `(d) The Commission may, by rules or regulations upon its own motion, or
 by order on application by an interested person, exempt conditionally or
 unconditionally any person, registration statement, indenture, security or
 transaction, or any class or classes of persons, registration statements,
 indentures, securities, or transactions, from any one or more of the
 provisions of this title, if and to the extent that such exemption is
 necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the
 protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by this title. The
 Commission shall by rules and regulations determine the procedures under
 which an exemption under this subsection shall be granted, and may, in
 its sole discretion, decline to entertain any application for an order of
 exemption under this subsection.'.
SEC. 404. SECURITIES REQUIRED TO BE REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
 Section 305 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77eee) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking `or has a conflicting interest as
 defined in subsection (b) of section 310';
 (2) in subsection (b)--
 (A) by striking `The Commission shall issue' and inserting `(1) Except as may
 be permitted by paragraph (2) of this subsection, the Commission shall issue';
 (B) by redesignating paragraph (1) as subparagraph (A);
 (C) by inserting `or' at the end thereof;
 (D) by striking paragraph (2);
 (E) redesignating paragraph (3) as subparagraph (B);
 (F) in such subparagraph (B), by striking `or has any conflicting interest
 as defined in subsection (b) of section 310'; and
 (G) by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) In the case of securities registered under the Securities Act of 1933,
 which securities are eligible to be issued, offered, or sold on a delayed
 basis by or on behalf of the registrant, the Commission shall not be required
 to issue an order pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of section
 305 for failure to designate a trustee eligible to act under subsection
 (a) of section 310 if, in accordance with such rules and regulations as
 may be prescribed by the Commission, the issuer of such securities files
 an application for the purpose of determining such trustee's eligibility
 under subsection (a) of section 310. The Commission shall issue an order
 prior to the effective date of such application refusing to permit the
 application to become effective, if it finds that any person  designated
 as trustee under such indenture is not eligible to act as such under
 subsection (a) of section 310, but no order shall be issued except after
 notice and opportunity for hearing within the periods and in the manner
 required with respect to refusal orders pursuant to section 8(b) of the
 Securities Act of 1933. If after notice and opportunity for hearing the
 Commission issues an order under this provision, the obligor shall within
 5 calendar days appoint a trustee meeting the requirements of subsection
 (a) of section 310. No such appointment shall be effective and such refusal
 order shall not be rescinded by the Commission until a person eligible to
 act as trustee under subsection (a) of section 310 has been appointed. If
 no order is issued, an application filed pursuant to this paragraph shall
 be effective the tenth day after filing thereof or such earlier date as the
 Commission may determine, having due regard to the adequacy of information
 provided therein, the public interest, and the protection of investors.'.
SEC. 405. WHEN QUALIFICATION BECOMES EFFECTIVE.
 Section 309(b) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77iii(b))
 is amended by inserting after `such Act' the following: `, or the failure
 of the issuer to file an application as provided for by section 305(b)(2)'.
SEC. 406. PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR APPOINTMENT AS TRUSTEE.
 Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by inserting at the end of paragraph (1) the following: `The Commission
 may, pursuant to such rules and regulations as it may prescribe, or by order
 on application, permit a corporation or other person organized and doing
 business under the laws of a foreign government to act as sole trustee under
 an indenture qualified or to be qualified pursuant to this title, if such
 corporation or other person (i) is authorized under such laws to exercise
 corporate trust powers, and (ii) is subject to supervision or examination
 by authority of such foreign government or a political subdivision thereof
 substantially equivalent to supervision or examination applicable to United
 States institutional trustees. In prescribing such rules and regulations or
 making such order, the Commission shall consider whether under such laws,
 a United States institutional trustee is eligible to act as sole trustee
 under an indenture relating to securities sold within the jurisdiction of
 such foreign government.';
 (2) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall require that there
 shall' in paragraph (1) and inserting `There shall';
 (3) by striking `thereunder' in paragraph (1) and inserting `under every
 indenture qualified or to be qualified pursuant to this title';
 (4) by inserting `or a corporation or other person permitted to act as
 trustee by the Commission' before `(referred to' in paragraph (1);
 (5) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall require that such
 institution' in paragraph (2) and inserting `Such institution';
 (6) by striking `such indenture shall provide that' in paragraph (3);
 (7) by striking `the indenture to be qualified shall require that' in
 paragraph (4); and
 (8) by inserting `shall' after `the indenture trustee or trustees' in
 paragraph (4).
SEC. 407. PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR APPOINTMENT AS TRUSTEE.
 Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(a))
 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
 `(5) No obligor upon the indenture securities or person directly or indirectly
 controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such obligor shall
 serve as trustee upon such indenture securities.'.
SEC. 408. DISQUALIFICATION OF TRUSTEE.
 Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77jjj(b))
 is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) If any indenture trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest
 as hereinafter defined--
 `(i) then, within 90 days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting
 interest, and if the default (as defined in the next sentence) to which such
 conflicting interest relates has not been cured or duly waived or otherwise
 eliminated before the end of such 90-day period, such trustee shall either
 eliminate such conflicting interest or, except as otherwise  provided below
 in this subsection, resign, and the obligor upon the indenture securities
 shall take prompt steps to have a successor appointed in the manner provided
 in the indenture;
 `(ii) in the event that such trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions
 of clause (i) of this subsection, such trustee shall, within 10 days after
 the expiration of such 90-day period, transmit notice of such failure to
 the indenture security holders in the manner and to the extent provided in
 subsection (c) of section 313; and
 `(iii) subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of section 315, unless
 such trustee's duty to resign is stayed as provided below in this subsection,
 any security holder who has been a bona fide holder of indenture securities
 for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly
 situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of
 such trustee, and the appointment of a successor, if such trustee fails,
 after written request thereof by such holder to comply with the provisions
 of clause (i) of this subsection.
 `For the purposes of this subsection, an indenture trustee shall be deemed
 to have a conflicting interest if the indenture securities are in default
 (as such term is defined in such indenture, but exclusive of any period of
 grace or requirement of notice) and--
 `(1) such trustee is trustee under another indenture under which any other
 securities, or certificates of interest or participation in any other
 securities, of an obligor upon the indenture securities are outstanding or
 is trustee for more than one outstanding series of securities, as hereafter
 defined, under a single indenture of an obligor, unless--
 `(A) the indenture securities are collateral trust notes under which the
 only collateral consists of securities issued under such other indenture,
 `(B) such other indenture is a collateral trust indenture under which the
 only collateral consists of indenture securities, or
 `(C) such obligor has no substantial unmortgaged assets and is engaged
 primarily in the business of owning, or of owning and developing and/or
 operating, real estate, and the indenture to be qualified and such other
 indenture are secured by wholly separate and distinct parcels of real estate:
Provided, That the indenture to be qualified shall automatically be deemed
(unless it is expressly provided therein that such provision is excluded)
to contain a provision excluding from the operation of this paragraph other
series under such indenture, and any other indenture or indentures under
which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in
other securities, of such an obligor are outstanding, if--
 `(i) the indenture to be qualified and any such other indenture or indentures
 (and all series of securities issuable thereunder) are wholly unsecured and
 rank equally, and such other indenture or indentures (and such series) are
 specifically described in the indenture to be qualified or are thereafter
 qualified under this title, unless the Commission shall have found and
 declared by order pursuant to subsection (b) of section 305 or subsection (c)
 of section 307 that differences exist between the provisions of the indenture
 (or such series) to be qualified and the provisions of such other indenture
 or indentures (or such series) which are so likely to involve a material
 conflict of interest as to make it necessary in the public interest or for
 the protection of investors to disqualify such trustee from acting as such
 under one of such indentures, or
 `(ii) the issuer shall have sustained the burden of proving, on application
 to the Commission and after opportunity for hearing thereon, that trusteeship
 under the indenture to be qualified and such other indenture or under more
 than one outstanding series under a single indenture is not so likely to
 involve a material conflict of interest as to make it necessary in the public
 interest or for the protection of investors to disqualify such trustee from
 acting as such under one of such indentures or with respect to such series;
 `(2) such trustee or any of its directors or executive officers is an
 underwriter for an obligor upon the indenture securities;
 `(3) such trustee directly or indirectly controls or is directly or
 indirectly controlled by or is under direct or indirect common control with
 an underwriter for an obligor upon the indenture securities;
 `(4) such trustee or any of its directors or executive officers is a director,
 officer, partner, employee, appointee, or representative of an obligor upon
 the indenture securities, or of an underwriter (other than the trustee itself)
 for such an obligor who is currently engaged in the business of underwriting,
 except that--
 `(A) one individual may be a director and/or an executive officer of the
 trustee and a director and/or an executive officer of such obligor, but
 may not be at the same time an executive officer of both the trustee and
 of such obligor,
 `(B) if and so long as the number of directors of the trustee in office
 is more than nine, one additional individual may be a director and/or an
 executive officer of the trustee and a director of such obligor, and
 `(C) such trustee may be designated by any such obligor or by any underwriter
 for any such obligor, to act in the capacity of transfer agent, registrar,
 custodian, paying agent, fiscal agent, escrow agent, or depositary, or in
 any other similar capacity, or, subject to the provisions of paragraph (1) of
 this subsection, to act as trustee, whether under an indenture or otherwise;
 `(5) 10 per centum or more of the voting securities of such trustee is
 beneficially owned either by an obligor upon the indenture securities or by
 any director, partner or executive officer thereof, or 20 per centum or more
 of such voting securities is beneficially owned, collectively by any two
 or more of such persons; or 10 per centum or more of the voting securities
 of such trustee is beneficially owned either by an underwriter for any
 such obligor or by any director, partner, or executive officer thereof,
 or is beneficially owned, collectively, by any two or more such persons;
 `(6) such trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral security
 for an obligation which is in default as hereinafter defined--
 `(A) 5 per centum or more of the voting securities, or 10 per centum or more
 of any other class of security, of an obligor upon the indenture securities,
 not including indentures securities and securities issued under any other
 indenture under which such trustee is also trustee, or
 `(B) 10 per centum or more of any class of security of an underwriter for
 any such obligor;
 `(7) such trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral security
 for an obligation which is in default as hereinafter defined, 5 per centum
 or more of the voting securities of any person who, to the knowledge of the
 trustee, owns 10 per centum or more of the voting securities of, or controls
 directly or indirectly or is under direct or indirect common control with,
 an obligor upon the indenture securities;
 `(8) such trustee is the beneficial owner of, or holds as collateral security
 for an obligation which is in default as hereinafter defined, 10 per centum
 or more of any class of security of any person who, to the knowledge of the
 trustee, owns 50 per centum or more of the voting securities of an obligor
 upon the indenture securities;
 `(9) such trustee owns, on the date of default upon the indenture securities
 (as such term is defined in such indenture but exclusive of any period of
 grace or requirement of notice) or any anniversary of such default while such
 default upon the indenture securities remains outstanding, in the capacity
 of executor, administrator, testamentary or inter vivos trustee, guardian,
 committee or conservator, or in any other similar capacity, an aggregate of
 25 per centum or more of the voting securities, or of any class of security,
 of any person, the beneficial ownership of a specified percentage of which
 would have constituted a conflicting interest under paragraph (6), (7), or (8)
 of this subsection. As to any such securities of which the indenture trustee
 acquired ownership through becoming executor, administrator or testamentary
 trustee of an estate which include them, the provisions of the preceding
 sentence shall not apply for a period of not more than 2 years from the
 date of such acquisition, to the extent that such securities included in
 such estate do not exceed 25 per centum of such voting securities or 25
 per centum of any such class of security. Promptly after the dates of any
 such default upon the indenture securities and annually in each succeeding
 year that the indenture securities remain in default the trustee shall make
 a check of its holding of such securities in any of the above-mentioned
 capacities as of such dates. If the obligor upon the indenture securities
 fails to make payment in full of principal or interest under such indenture
 when and as the same becomes due and payable, and such failure continues for
 30 days thereafter, the trustee shall make a prompt check of its holdings of
 such securities in any of the above-mentioned capacities as of the date of
 the expiration of such 30-day period, and after such date, notwithstanding
 the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, all such securities so held by
 the trustee, with sole or joint control over such securities vested in it,
 shall be considered as though beneficially owned by such trustee, for the
 purposes of paragraphs (6), (7), and (8) of this subsection; or
 `(10) except under the circumstances described in paragraphs (1), (3), (4),
 (5) or (6) of section 311(b) of this title, the trustee shall be or shall
 become a creditor of the obligor.
 `For purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection, and of section 316(a)
 of this title, the term `series of securities' or `series' means a series,
 class or group of securities issuable under an indenture pursuant to whose
 terms holders of one such series may vote to direct the indenture trustee,
 or otherwise take action pursuant to a vote of such holders, separately
 from holders of another such series: Provided, That `series of securities'
 or `series' shall not include any series of securities issuable under an
 indenture if all such series rank equally and are wholly unsecured.
 `The specification of percentages in paragraphs (5) to (9), inclusive,
 of this subsection shall not be construed as indicating that the ownership
 of such percentages of the securities of a person is or is not necessary
 or sufficient to constitute direct or indirect control for the purposes of
 paragraph (3) or (7) of this subsection.
 `For the purposes of paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) of this subsection--
 `(A) the terms `security' and `securities' shall include only such securities
 as are generally known as corporate securities, but shall not include any
 note or other evidence of indebtedness issued to evidence an obligation
 to repay moneys lent to a person by one or more banks, trust companies,
 or banking firms, or any certificate of interest or participation in any
 such note or evidence of indebtedness;
 `(B) an obligation shall be deemed to be in default when a default in
 payment of principal shall have continued for thirty days or more, and
 shall not have been cured; and
 `(C) the indenture trustee shall not be deemed the owner or holder of (i)
 any security which it holds as collateral security (as trustee or otherwise)
 for any obligation which is  not in  default as above defined, or (ii) any
 security  which it holds as collateral security under the indenture to be
 qualified, irrespective of any default thereunder, or (iii)  any security
 which it holds as  agent  for collection, or as custodian, escrow  agent
 or depositary, or in any similar representative capacity.
 `For the purposes of this subsection,  the term `underwriter' when used with
 reference to an obligor upon  the indenture securities means every person
 who, within  one year prior to the time as of which the determination is
 made, was an underwriter of any security of such obligor outstanding at
 the time of the determination.
 `Except  in the case of a default  in the payment of the principal of or
 interest on any indenture security, or in the payment of any sinking or
 purchase fund installment, the indenture trustee shall not be required to
 resign as provided by this subsection if such trustee shall have sustained
 the burden of proving, on application to the Commission and after opportunity
 for hearing  thereon, that--
 `(i) the default under the  indenture may be cured or waived during a
 reasonable period and under the procedures described in such application, and
 `(ii) a stay of the trustee's duty to resign will not be inconsistent with
 the interests of holders of the indenture securities. The filing of such an
 application shall automatically stay the performance of the duty to resign
 until the Commission orders otherwise.
 `Any resignation of an indenture trustee shall become effective only upon
 the appointment of a successor trustee and such successor's acceptance of
 such an  appointment.'.
SEC. 409. PREFERENTIAL COLLECTION OF CLAIMS AGAINST OBLIGOR.
 Section 311 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939  (15 U.S.C. 77kkk)  is
 amended--
 (1) by  striking `the indenture to be qualified shall provide that' in the
 first paragraph of subsection (a);
 (2) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall provide that, if'
 at the beginning of the third paragraph of subsection (a) and inserting `If';
 (3) by striking `four  months' and `four  months' each place they appear
 in subsection (a)  and inserting `three months' and `three months' ',
 respectively;
 (4) by inserting at the end of subsection (a) the following: `In any
 case commenced under the Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898, or any amendment
 thereto enacted prior to November 6, 1978, all references to periods  of
 three months shall be deemed to be references to periods of four months.'; and
 (5) by striking `may' in the first line of subsection (b) and inserting
 `shall automatically be deemed (unless  it is expressly provided therein
 that any such provision is excluded) to'.
SEC. 410. BONDHOLDER LISTS.
 Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77lll) is amended--
 (1) by striking `The indenture to be  qualified shall contain provisions
 requiring each obligor' in subsection (a) and inserting `Each obligor';
 (2) in subsection (a), by striking `indenture securities to' and inserting
 `indenture  securities shall'; and
 (3) by striking `The indenture to be qualified  shall also contain provisions
 requiring that, within' in subsection (b)  and inserting `Within'.
SEC. 411. REPORTS BY INDENTURE TRUSTEE.
 Section 313(a)  of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77mmm(a))
 is amended--
 (1) by striking `The indenture to be qualified  shall contain provisions
 requiring the indenture trustee to' and inserting `The indenture trustee
 shall';
 (2) by  inserting after `a brief report with respect to' the following:
 `any of the following events which may have occurred within the previous
 12 months (but if no such event has occurred within such period no report
 need be transmitted):';
 (3) by inserting after the paragraph designation  at the beginning of
 paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) the following: `any change to';
 (4) in paragraph (1) by striking `, or in lieu thereof, if  to the best
 of its knowledge it  has continued to be eligible and qualified under such
 section, a written statement to such effect'; and
 (5)(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (7)  as paragraphs (3)
 through (8), respectively;  and
 (B) by inserting after paragraph (1)  the following:
 `(2) the creation of or any material change to a relationship specified
 in paragraph (1)  through (10) of  section 310(b);'.
SEC. 412. BONDHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS.
 Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77mmm) is amended--
 (1) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall also contain provisions
 requiring the indenture trustee to' in subsection (b) and inserting `The
 indenture trustee shall';
 (2) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall also provide that
 reports' in subsection (c) and inserting `Reports'; and
 (3) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall also provide that a
 copy' in subsection (d) and inserting `A copy'.
SEC. 413. REPORTS BY OBLIGOR; EVIDENCE OF COMPLIANCE WITH INDENTURE PROVISIONS.
 Section 314 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77nnn) is amended--
 (1) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall contain provisions
 requiring each' in subsection (a) and inserting `Each';
 (2) by inserting `shall' after `thereby' in such subsection;
 (3) by striking `to' after the paragraph designation at the beginning of
 paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a);
 (4) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (2) of subsection (a);
 (5) by striking  the period at the end of paragraph  (3) of subsection (a)
 and inserting `; and';
 (6) by adding at the end of subsection (a) the following new paragraph:
 `(4) furnish to the indenture trustee, not less often than annually, a brief
 certificate from the principal executive officer, principal financial officer
 or principal accounting officer as to his or her knowledge of such obligor's
 compliance with all conditions and covenants under the indenture. For purposes
 of this paragraph, such compliance shall be determined without regard to
 any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under the indenture.';
 (7) by striking `such indenture shall contain provisions requiring' in
 subsection (b);
 (8) by striking `securities to furnish' in subsection (b) and inserting
 `securities shall furnish';
 (9) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall  contain provisions
 requiring the obligor' in subsection (c) and inserting `The obligor';
 (10) by striking `securities to furnish' in subsection (c) and inserting
 `securities shall furnish';
 (11) by striking `such indenture shall contain provisions' in subsection (d)
 and inserting `the obligor upon the indenture securities shall furnish to
 the indenture trustee a certificate or opinion of an engineer, appraiser,
 or other expert as to the fair value';
 (12) by striking `requiring the obligor upon the indenture securities to
 furnish to the indenture trustee a certificate or opinion of an engineer,
 appraiser or other expert as to the fair value' in paragraphs (1), (2) and
 (3) of subsection (d);
 (13) by striking `If the indenture to be qualified so provides,' at the
 beginning of the penultimate sentence of subsection (d) and inserting
 `The indenture to be qualified shall automatically be deemed (unless it is
 expressly provided therein that such provision is excluded) to provide that';
 (14) by striking `specified in the indenture' in the penultimate sentence
 of subsection (d) and inserting `duly authorized to make such certificate
 or opinion by the obligor from time to time'; and
 (15) by inserting in subsection (e) `(other than certificates provided
 pursuant to subsection (a)(4) of this section)' after `indenture'.
SEC. 414. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE TRUSTEE.
 Section 315 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ooo) is amended--
 (1) by striking `The indenture to be qualified may' in subsections (a)
 and (e) and inserting `The indenture to be qualified shall automatically
 be deemed (unless it is expressly provided therein that any such provision
 is excluded) to';
 (2) by striking `such indenture shall contain provisions requiring the
 indenture trustee to examine' in subsection (a) and inserting `the indenture
 trustee shall examine';
 (3) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall contain provisions
 requiring the indenture trustee to' in subsections (b) and (c) and inserting
 `The indenture trustee shall';
 (4) by striking `That such indenture may' in the proviso in subsection (b)
 and inserting `That such indenture shall automatically be deemed (unless
 it is expressly provided therein that such provision is excluded) to'; and
 (5) by striking `such indenture may' in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3)
 of subsection (d) and inserting `such indenture shall automatically be
 deemed (unless it is expressly provided therein that any such provision is
 excluded) to'.
SEC. 415. DIRECTIONS AND WAIVERS BY BONDHOLDERS; PROHIBITION OF IMPAIRMENT
OF RIGHT TO PAYMENT; RECORD DATES.
 Section 316 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77ppp) is amended--
 (1) by striking `may contain provisions' after `qualified' in subsection
 (a) and inserting `may contain provisions' before `authorizing the holders'
 in paragraph (2) of subsection (a);
 (2) by inserting `shall automatically be deemed (unless it is expressly
 provided therein that any such provision is excluded) to contain provisions'
 before `authorizing the holders' in paragraph (1) of subsection (a);
 (3) by inserting `or if expressly specified in such indenture, of any
 series of securities' after `principal amount of the indenture securities'
 in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a);
 (4) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall provide that,
 notwithstanding' in subsection (b) and inserting `Notwithstanding';
 (5) by striking `thereof' in subsection (b) and inserting `of the indenture
 to be qualified'; and
 (6) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(c) The obligor upon any indenture qualified under this title may set a
 record date for purposes of determining the identity of indenture security
 holders entitled to vote or consent to any action by vote or consent
 authorized or permitted by subsection (a) of this section. Unless the
 indenture provides otherwise, such record date shall be the later of 30
 days prior to the first solicitation of such consent or the date of the
 most recent list of holders furnished to the trustee pursuant to section
 312 of this title prior to such solicitation.'.
SEC. 416. SPECIAL POWERS OF TRUSTEE; DUTIES OF PAYING AGENTS.
 Section 317 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77qqq) is amended--
 (1) by striking `to be qualified shall contain provisions' in subsection
 (a) and inserting `trustee shall be authorized';
 (2) by striking `authorizing the indenture trustee' in paragraph (1);
 (3)  by striking `authorizing such trustee' from paragraph (2); and
 (4) by striking `The indenture to be qualified shall provide that each'
 in subsection (b) and inserting `Each'.
SEC. 417. EFFECT OF MANDATORY TERMS.
 Section 318 of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77rrr) is amended--
 (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
 `SEC. 318. (a) If any provision of the indenture to be qualified limits,
 qualifies, or conflicts with the duties imposed by operation of subsection
 (c) of this section, the imposed duties shall control.';
 (2) by adding at the end thereof the following new subsection:
 `(c) The provisions of sections 310 to and including 317 that impose duties
 on any person (including provisions automatically deemed included in an
 indenture unless the indenture provides that such provisions are excluded)
 are a part of and govern every qualified indenture, whether or not physically
 contained therein, shall be deemed retroactively to govern each indenture
 heretofore qualified, and prospectively to govern each indenture hereafter
 qualified under this title and shall be deemed retroactively to amend
 and supersede inconsistent provisions in each such indenture heretofore
 qualified. The foregoing provisions of this subsection shall not be deemed
 to effect the inclusion (by retroactive amendment or otherwise) in the text
 of any indenture heretofore qualified of any of the optional provisions
 contemplated by section 310(b)(1), 311(b), 314(d), 315(a), 315(b), 315(d),
 315(e), or 316(a)(1).'.
SEC. 418. JURISDICTION OF OFFENSES AND SUITS.
 Section 322(b) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C. 77vvv(b))
 is amended by inserting `or duty' after `any liability'.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.