 
--H.R.2843--
H.R.2843
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the Tumacacori National Historical Park in the State of Arizona.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TUMACACORI NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to protect and interpret, for the education and
 benefit of the public, sites in the State of Arizona associated with the
 early Spanish missionaries and explorers of the 17th and 18th centuries,
 there is hereby established the Tumacacori National Historical Park
 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the `park').
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- The park shall consist of the existing Tumacacori National
 Monument, together with (1) the ruins of Los Santos Angeles de Guevavi, the
 first mission in Arizona (consisting of approximately 8 acres) and (2) the
 Kino visita and rancheria ruins of Calabazas (consisting of approximately
 22 acres), each as generally depicted on the map entitled `Boundary Map,
 Tumacacori National Historical Park', numbered 311/80018, and dated February
 1990. The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the
 offices of the National Park Service, Department of the Interior.
 (c) ABOLITION OF MONUMENT- The Tumacacori National Monument is hereby
 abolished and any funds available for purposes of the monument shall be
 available for purposes of the park.
SEC. 2. ADMINISTRATION.
 (a) IN GENERAL- The Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred to
 as the `Secretary') shall administer the park in accordance with this
 Act and with the provisions of law generally applicable to units of the
 national park system, including the Act entitled `An Act to establish a
 National Park Service, and for other purposes', approved August 25, 1916
 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1-4) and the Act of August 21, 1935 (49 Stat. 666;
 16 U.S.C. 461-467). The Secretary may acquire lands or interests in land
 within the boundaries of the park by donation, purchase with donated or
 appropriated funds, or exchange.
 (b) DONATIONS- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may
 accept and retain donations of funds, property, or services from individuals,
 foundations, corporations, or public entities for the purpose of providing
 services and facilities which he deems consistent with the purposes of
 this Act.
 (c) SEPARATE UNITS- The Secretary shall provide for the identification of
 the Guevavi, Calabazas, and Tumacacori sites as 3 separate units of the park.
 (d) RECOGNITION OF FATHER EUSEBIO FRANCISCO KINO'S ROLE- In administering
 the park, the Secretary shall utilize such interpretative materials and
 other devices as may be necessary to give appropriate recognition to the
 role of the Jesuit Missionary Priest, Father Eusebio Francisco Kino, in
 the development of the mission sites and the settlement of the region.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.