 
--H.R.5643--
H.R.5643
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To grant a temporary extension on the authority under which the Government
may accept the voluntary services of private-sector executives; to clarify
the status of Federal employees assigned to private-sector positions while
participating in an executive exchange program; and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO PRIVATE-SECTOR
EXECUTIVES PERFORMING VOLUNTARY SERVICES FOR THE GOVERNMENT.
 (a) IN GENERAL- Notwithstanding the expiration on September 30, 1990, of the
 Executive Exchange Program Voluntary Services Act of 1986 (5 U.S.C. 4103
 note), any individual who, as of that date, is or was participating in a
 program established under such Act may continue to perform voluntary services
 for the Government, and the Government may continue to accept those services,
 for not more than an additional 90 days beyond that expiration date, to
 the same extent as if such Act had not expired.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- This section shall be effective as of September 30, 1990.
SEC. 2. STATUS OF GOVERNMENT EXECUTIVES WHILE SERVING IN PRIVATE-SECTOR
POSITIONS.
 (a) IN GENERAL- (1) Title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting
 after section 3341 the following:
`Sec. 3342. Federal participants in executive exchange programs
 `(a) For the purpose of this section, the term `executive exchange program'
 means any program which is required, by statute or Executive order, to be
 administered, in whole or in part, by the President's Commission on Executive
 Exchange (described in Executive Order Numbered 12493, dated December 5,
 1984), a successor entity in function, or any officer thereof.
 `(b) An employee assigned to a position in the private sector as a participant
 in an executive exchange program shall, while so assigned, be treated as if
 on detail to a regular work assignment in such employee's employing agency,
 except that nothing in section 3341(b) shall limit the period of time for
 which any such employee may be so assigned.
 `(c) An agreement providing for the assignment of an employee to a position
 in the private sector as a participant in an executive exchange program
 shall not be effective unless it includes a provision under which the
 private-sector employer agrees to reimburse the employee's agency for any
 basic pay which is paid by the agency to such employee, and attributable
 to the period during which the employee is so assigned. Any reimbursement
 so made shall be credited to the appropriation, fund, or account used to
 pay the amount reimbursed.'.
 (2) The table of sections for chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code,
 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3341 the following:
`3342. Federal participants in executive exchange programs.'.
 (b) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect 90
 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and shall apply with respect
 to any Federal employee who begins an assignment with a private-sector
 employer as a participant in an executive exchange program beginning on or
 after that effective date.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.