 
--H.R.4090--
H.R.4090
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize the establishment of the Glorieta National Battlefield in the
State of
New Mexico, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Pecos National Historical Park Expansion Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
 (a) FINDINGS- The Congress makes the following findings:
 (1) the Civil War battle of Glorieta Pass, New Mexico, fought on March 26-28,
 1862, was a decisive battle of the Civil War in the Far West;
 (2) the battle was significant because the Confederate defeat at Glorieta
 Pass resulted in the collapse of the Confederacy's plan to capture the riches
 and support of the West, thus largely ending the Civil War in the West; and
 (3) the campsite and headquarters of the Union forces during the Battle of
 Glorieta are currently within the boundary of Pecos National Historical Park.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to preserve and interpret the Battle
 of Glorieta and to enhance visitor understanding of the Civil War and the
 Far West by establishing a new unit of Pecos National Historical Park.
SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE GLORIETA UNIT OF THE PECOS NATIONAL HISTORICAL
PARK.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- In order to preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta
 for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future generations, there is
 hereby established the Glorieta Unit of the Pecos National Historical Park
 (hereafter in this Act referred to as the `Glorieta Unit'). The Glorieta
 Unit shall be comprised of approximately 682 acres as generally depicted on
 the maps entitled `Glorieta Unit--Pecos National Historical Park', numbered
 430-80,031, and dated July 1990. The boundary of Pecos National Historical
 Park, established by title II of Public Law 101-313 (104 Stat. 278), is
 hereby modified to include the Glorieta Unit.
 (b) ADMINISTRATION- The Secretary shall administer the Glorieta Unit to
 preserve and interpret the Battle of Glorieta for the benefit and enjoyment of
 present and future generations, in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
 applicable provisions of title II of Public Law 101-313, and provisions of
 law generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including
 the Act of August 25, 1916 (39 Stat. 535; 16 U.S.C. 1-4), and the Act of
 August 21, 1935 (49 U.S.C. 666; 16 U.S.C. 461-7).
 (c) ACQUISITION- The Secretary is authorized to acquire lands, waters, and
 interests therein within the boundaries of the Glorieta Unit by donation,
 purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange. Lands may not be
 acquired for purposes of the Glorieta Unit without the consent of the owner
 thereof unless the Secretary determines that, in his judgment, the property
 is subject to, or threatened with, uses which are having, or would have, an
 adverse impact on the Glorieta Unit or on the management of the Glorieta Unit.
 (d) TRANSFER- Lands identified on the maps referred to in subsection (a)
 as being within unit number 26 in the `Historic Zone' are hereby transferred
 from the administration of the Secretary of Agriculture to the administration
 of the Secretary of the Interior, to be managed in accordance with the
 provisions of this Act.
 (e) MANAGEMENT PLAN- The Secretary shall incorporate management direction
 for the Glorieta Unit into the general management plan for the Pecos National
 Historical Park, including the identification of routes of travel associated
 with the Battle of Glorieta.
 (f) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS- There are hereby authorized to be
 appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of
 this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.