 
--H.R.5909--
H.R.5909
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To establish the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, and for other
purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE
 SECTION 1. This Act may be cited as the `Florida Keys National Marine
 Sanctuary and Protection Act'.
FINDINGS
 SEC. 2. The Congress finds and declares the following:
 (1) The Florida Keys extend approximately 220 miles southwest from the
 southern tip of the Florida peninsula.
 (2) Adjacent to the Florida Keys land mass are located spectacular, unique,
 and nationally significant marine environments, including seagrass meadows,
 mangrove islands, and extensive living coral reefs.
 (3) These marine environments support rich biological communities possessing
 extensive conservation, recreational, commercial, ecological, historical,
 research, educational, and esthetic values which give this area special
 national significance.
 (4) These environments are the marine equivalent of tropical rain forests
 in that they support high levels of biological diversity, are fragile and
 easily susceptible to damage from human activities, and possess high value
 to human beings if properly conserved.
 (5) These marine environments are subject to damage and loss of their
 ecological integrity from a variety of sources of disturbance.
 (6) Vessel groundings along the reefs of the Florida Keys represent one of
 many serious threats to the continued vitality of the marine environments
 of the Florida Keys which must be addressed in order to protect their values.
 (7) Action is necessary to provide comprehensive protection for these marine
 environments by establishing a Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary,
 by restricting vessel traffic within such Sanctuary, and by requiring
 promulgation of a management plan and regulations to protect Sanctuary
 resources.
 (8) The agencies of the United States must cooperate fully to achieve the
 necessary protection of Sanctuary resources.
 (9) The Federal Government and the State of Florida should jointly develop
 and implement a comprehensive program to reduce pollution in the waters
 offshore the Florida Keys to protect and restore the water quality, coral
 reefs, and other living marine resources of the Florida Keys environment.
POLICY AND PURPOSE
 SEC. 3. (a) POLICY- It is the policy of the United States to protect and
 preserve living and other resources of the Florida Keys marine environment.
 (b) PURPOSE- The purpose of this Act is to protect the resources of the
 area described in section 5(b), to educate and interpret for the public
 regarding the Florida Keys marine environment, and to manage such human uses
 of the Sanctuary consistent with this Act. Nothing in this Act is intended to
 restrict activities that do not cause an adverse effect to the resources or
 property of the Sanctuary or that do not pose harm to users of the Sanctuary.
DEFINITION
 SEC. 4. As used in this Act, the term `adverse effect' means any factor,
 force, or action that would independently or cumulatively damage, diminish,
 degrade, impair, destroy, or otherwise harm--
 (1) any Sanctuary resource, as defined in section 302(8) of the Marine
 Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1432(8)); or
 (2) any of those qualities, values, or purposes for which the Sanctuary
 is designated.
SANCTUARY DESIGNATION
 SEC. 5. (a) DESIGNATION- The area described in subsection (b) is designated
 as the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary (in this Act referred to as
 the `Sanctuary') under title III of the Marine Protection, Research, and
 Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.). The Sanctuary shall be
 managed and regulations enforced under all applicable provisions of such
 title III as if the Sanctuary had been designated under such title.
 (b) AREA INCLUDED- (1) Subject to subsections (c) and (d), the area referred
 to in subsection (a) consists of all submerged lands and waters, including
 living marine and other resources within and on those lands and waters,
 from the mean high water mark to the boundary described under paragraph (2),
 with the exception of areas within the Fort Jefferson National Monument. The
 Sanctuary shall be generally identified and depicted on National Oceanic and
 Atmospheric Administration charts FKNMS 1 and 2, which shall be maintained
 on file and kept available for public examination during regular business
 hours at the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management of the National
 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and which shall be updated to reflect
 boundary modifications under this section.
 (2) The boundary referred to in paragraph (1)--
 (A) begins at the northeasternmost point of Biscayne National Park located at
 approximately 25 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 5 minutes west
 longitude, then runs eastward to the 300-foot isobath located at aproximately
 25 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 4 minutes west longitude;
 (B) then runs southward and connects in succession the points at the
 following coordinates:
 (i) 25 degrees 34 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 4 minutes west longitude,
 (ii) 25 degrees 28 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 5 minutes west
 longitude, and
 (iii) 25 degrees 21 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 7 minutes west
 longitude;
 (C) then runs southward to the northeastern corner of the existing Key Largo
 National Marine Sanctuary located at 25 degrees 16 minutes north latitude,
 80 degrees 8 minutes west longitude;
 (D) then runs southwesterly approximating the 300-foot isobath and connects
 in succession the points at the following coordinates:
 (i) 25 degrees 7 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 13 minutes west longitude,
 (ii) 24 degrees 57 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 21 minutes west
 longitude,
 (iii) 24 degrees 39 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 52 minutes west
 longitude,
 (iv) 24 degrees 30 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 23 minutes west
 longitude,
 (v) 24 degrees 25 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 50 minutes west
 longitude,
 (vi) 24 degrees 22 minutes north latitude, 82 degrees 48 minutes west
 longitude,
 (vii) 24 degrees 37 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 6 minutes west
 longitude,
 (viii) 24 degrees 40 minutes north latitude, 83 degrees 6 minutes west
 longitude,
 (ix) 24 degrees 46 minutes north latitude, 82 degrees 54 minutes west
 longitude,
 (x) 24 degrees 44 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 55 minutes west
 longitude,
 (xi) 24 degrees 51 minutes north latitude, 81 degrees 26 minutes west
 longitude, and
 (xii) 24 degrees 55 minutes north latitude, 80 degrees 56 minutes west
 longitude;
 (E) then follows the boundary of Everglades National Park in a southerly
 then northeasterly direction through Florida Bay, Buttonwood Sound, Tarpon
 Basin, and Blackwater Sound;
 (F) after Division Point, then departs from the boundary of Everglades
 National Park and follows the western shoreline of Manatee Bay, Barnes Sound,
 and Card Sound;
 (G) then follows the southern boundary of Biscayne National Park and
 the northern boundary of Key Largo National Marine Sanctuary to the
 southeasternmost point of Biscayne National Park; and
 (H) then follows the eastern boundary of the Biscayne National Park to the
 beginning point specified in subparagraph (A).
 (c) AREAS WITHIN STATE OF FLORIDA- The designation under subsection (a)
 shall not take effect for any area located within the waters of the State of
 Florida if, not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
 the Governor of the State of Florida objects in writing to the Secretary
 of Commerce.
 (d) BOUNDARY MODIFICATIONS- No later than the issuance of the
 draft environmental impact statement for the Sanctuary under section
 304(a)(1)(C)(vii) of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act
 of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1434(a)(1)(C)(vii)), in consultation with the Governor
 of the State of Florida, if appropriate, the Secretary of Commerce may
 make minor modifications to the boundaries of the Sanctuary as necessary
 to properly protect Sanctuary resources. The Secretary of Commerce shall
 submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
 Senate and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of
 Representatives a written notification of such modifications. Any boundary
 modification made under this subsection shall be reflected on the charts
 referred to in subsection (b)(1).
PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN USES
 SEC. 6. (a) VESSEL TRAFFIC- (1) Consistent with generally recognized
 principles of international law, a person may not operate a tank vessel (as
 that term is defined in section 2101 of title 46, United States Code) or a
 vessel greater than 50 meters in length in the Area To Be Avoided described
 in the Federal Register notice of May 9, 1990 (55 Fed. Reg. 19418-19419).
 (2) The prohibition in paragraph (1) shall not apply to necessary operations
 of public vessels. For the purposes of this paragraph, necessary operations
 of public vessels shall include operations essential for national defense,
 law enforcement, and responses to emergencies that threaten life, property,
 or the environment.
 (3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2), including the area in which
 vessel operations are prohibited under paragraph (1), may be modified by
 regulations issued jointly by the Secretary of the department in which the
 Coast Guard is operating and the Secretary of Commerce.
 (4) This subsection shall be effective on the earliest of the following:
 (A) the date that is six months after the date of enactment of this Act,
 (B) the date of publication of a notice to mariners consistent with this
 section, or
 (C) the date of publication of new nautical charts consistent with this
 section.
 (b) MINERAL AND HYDROCARBON LEASING, EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT, AND
 PRODUCTION- No leasing, exploration, development, or production of minerals
 or hydrocarbons shall be permitted within the Sanctuary.
comprehensive management plan
 SEC. 7. (a) PREPARATION OF PLAN- The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation
 with appropriate Federal, State, and local government authorities and
 with the Advisory Council established under section 208, shall develop a
 comprehensive management plan and implementing regulations to achieve the
 policy and purpose of this Act. The Secretary of Commerce shall complete
 such comprehensive management plan and final regulations for the Sanctuary
 not later than 30 months after the date of enactment of this Act. In
 developing the plan and regulations, the Secretary of Commerce shall follow
 the procedures specified in sections 303 and 304 of the Marine Protection,
 Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1433 and 1434), except those
 procedures requiring the delineation of Sanctuary boundaries and development
 of a resource assessment report. Such comprehensive management plan shall--
 (1) facilitate all public and private uses of the Sanctuary consistent with
 the primary objective of Sanctuary resource protection;
 (2) consider temporal and geographical zoning, to ensure protection of
 Sanctuary resources;
 (3) incorporate regulations necessary to enforce the elements of the
 comprehensive water quality protection program developed under section 8
 unless the Secretary of Commerce determines that such program does not
 meet the purpose for which the Sanctuary is designated or is otherwise
 inconsistent or incompatible with the comprehensive management plan developed
 under this section;
 (4) identify needs for research and establish a long-term ecological
 monitoring program;
 (5) identify alternative sources of funding needed to fully implement the
 plan's provisions and supplement appropriations under section 9 of this Act
 and section 313 of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of
 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1444).
 (6) ensure coordination and cooperation between Sanctuary managers and other
 Federal, State, and local authorities with jurisdiction within or adjacent
 to the Sanctuary;
 (7) promote education, among users of the Sanctuary, about coral reef
 conservation and navigational safety; and
 (8) incorporate the existing Looe Key and Key Largo National Marine
 Sanctuaries into the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary except the Looe
 Key and Key Largo Sanctuaries shall continue to be operated until completion
 of the comprehensive management plan for the Florida Keys Sanctuary.
 (b) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION- The Secretary of Commerce shall provide for
 participation by the general public in development of the comprehensive
 management plan.
 (c) TERMINATION OF STUDIES- On the date of enactment of this Act, all
 congressionally mandated studies of existing areas in the Florida Keys for
 designation as National Marine Sanctuaries shall be terminated.
florida keys water quality
 SEC. 8. (a) WATER QUALITY PROTECTION PROGRAM- (1) Not later than 18
 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the
 Environmental Protection Agency and the Governor of the State of Florida, in
 consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall develop a comprehensive
 water quality protection program for the Sanctuary. If the Secretary
 of Commerce determines that such comprehensive water quality protection
 program does not meet the purpose for which the Sanctuary is designated or
 is otherwise inconsistent or incompatible with the comprehensive management
 plan prepared under section 7, such water quality program shall not be
 included in the comprehensive management plan. The purposes of such water
 quality program shall be to--
 (A) recommend priority corrective actions and compliance schedules addressing
 point and nonpoint sources of pollution to restore and maintain the chemical,
 physical, and biological integrity of the Sanctuary, including restoration
 and maintenance of a balanced, indigenous population of corals, shellfish,
 fish and wildlife, and recreational activities in and on the water; and
 (B) assign responsibilities for the implementation of the program among the
 Governor, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Administrator in accordance
 with applicable Federal and State laws.
 (2) The program required by paragraph (1) shall, under applicable Federal
 and State laws, provide for measures to achieve the purposes described
 under paragraph (1), including--
 (A) adoption or revision, under applicable Federal and State laws, by the
 State and the Administrator of applicable water quality standards for the
 Sanctuary, based on water quality criteria which may utilize biological
 monitoring or assessment methods, to assure protection and restoration
 of the water quality, coral reefs, and other living marine resources of
 the Sanctuary;
 (B) adoption under applicable Federal and State laws of enforceable pollution
 control measures (including water quality/based effluent limitations and
 best management practices) and methods to eliminate or reduce pollution
 from point and nonpoint sources;
 (C) establishment of a comprehensive water quality monitoring program to
 (i) determine the sources of pollution causing or contributing to existing
 or anticipated pollution problems in the Sanctuary, (ii) evaluate the
 effectiveness of efforts to reduce or eliminate those sources of pollution,
 and (iii) evaluate progress toward achieving and maintaining water quality
 standards and toward protecting and restoring the coral reefs and other
 living marine resources of the Sanctuary;
 (D) provision of adequate opportunity for public participation in all
 aspects of developing and implementing the program; and
 (E) identification of funding for implementation of the program, including
 appropriate Federal and State cost sharing arrangements.
 (b) COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT- The Administrator of the Environmental
 Protection Agency, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Governor of the State
 of Florida shall ensure compliance with the program required by this section,
 consistent with applicable Federal and State laws.
 (c) CONSULTATION- In the development and implementation of the program
 required by paragraph (1), appropriate State and local government officials
 shall be consulted.
ADVISORY COUNCIL
 SEC. 9. (a) ESTABLISHMENT- The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with
 the Governor of the State of Florida and the Board of County Commissioners
 of Monroe County, Florida, shall establish an Advisory Council to assist
 the Secretary in the development and implementation of the comprehensive
 management plan for the Sanctuary.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- Members of the Advisory Council may be appointed from
 among (1) Sanctuary managers, (2) members of other government agencies
 with overlapping management responsibilities for the Florida Keys marine
 environment, and (3) representatives of local industries, commercial users,
 conservation groups, the marine scientific and educational community,
 recreational user groups, or the general public.
 (c) EXPENSES- Members of the Advisory Council shall not be paid compensation
 for their service as members and shall not be reimbursed for actual and
 necessary traveling and subsistence expenses incurred by them in the
 performance of their duties as such members.
 (d) ADMINISTRATION- The Advisory Council shall elect a chairperson and
 may establish subcommittees, and adopt by-laws, rules, and such other
 administrative requirements and procedures as are necessary for the
 administration of its functions.
 (e) STAFFING AND OTHER ASSISTANCE- The Secretary of Commerce shall make
 available to the Advisory Council such staff, information, and administrative
 services and assistance as the Secretary of Commerce determines are reasonably
 required to enable the Advisory Council to carry out its functions.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 10. (a) AUTHORIZATION FOR SECRETARY OF COMMERCE- Section 313(2)(C)
 of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16
 U.S.C. 1444(2)(C)) is amended by striking `$3,000,000' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `$4,000,000'.
 (b) AUTHORIZATION FOR EPA ADMINISTRATOR- There are authorized to be
 appropriated to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
 $750,000 for each of the fiscal years 1991 and 1992.
 (c) REPORT- The Secretary of Commerce shall, not later than March 1, 1991,
 submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
 Senate and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of
 Representatives a report on the future requirements for funding the Sanctuary
 through fiscal year 1999 under title III of the Marine Protection, Research,
 and Sanctuaries Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 14321 et seq.).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.