 
--H.R.4758--
H.R.4758
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the construction, operation, and maintenance of an extension
of the
American Canal at El Paso, Texas.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Rio Grande American Canal Extension Act
 of 1990'.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds the following:
 (1) The Riverside Dam on the international reach of the Rio Grande River
 at El Paso, Texas, provides the water used to irrigate nearly 32,000 acres
 of farmland in the United States.
 (2) In June 1987, the Riverside Dam failed, and the temporary replacement
 structure now in place on the river cannot be relied upon to guarantee the
 continued provision of these waters to the United States.
 (3) Building a permanent structure in an international reach of the Rio Grande
 would require the conditional approval of the Government of Mexico through an
 action of the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and
 Mexico, and Mexico could use such structure to divert waters to its own land.
 (4) The United States constructed the American Dam completely in United
 States territory to ensure that waters from the American Canal would be
 completely retained within the United States up to a point below Mexico's
 diversion at the International Dam.
 (5) Potentially disruptive international issues might arise from the
 commingling of the waters of the United States and the waters of Mexico
 in this reach of the Rio Grande, while such issues would not arise if a
 canal extension were constructed and operated wholly on the American side
 of the river.
 (6) The construction and operation of an extension of the American Canal
 which would lie wholly in the United States would provide for a more
 equitable distribution of waters between the United States and Mexico,
 reduce water losses, and eliminate many hazards to public safety.
SEC. 3. CONSTRUCTION OF CANAL EXTENSION, OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND USE.
 (a) CONSTRUCTION OF EXTENSION- Subject to subsection (e), the Secretary
 shall construct an extension of the American Canal, together with pumping
 plants, wasteways, measuring devices, and other facilities needed to connect
 such extension with existing irrigation systems. Such extension shall lie
 wholly in the United States and shall be approximately 13 miles in length,
 beginning at the downstream end of the current American Canal in El Paso,
 Texas, and extending to Riverside Heading.
 (b) OPERATION OF CANAL-
 (1) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall
 operate the extension of the American Canal provided for in subsection (a).
 (2) DELIVERY OF WATERS- The Secretary shall enter into an agreement with El
 Paso County Water Improvement District Number 1 pursuant to which the Water
 Improvement District would be responsible for the operation of the American
 Canal with respect to the delivery of all waters, with the exception of
 those waters belonging to Mexico which, consistent with paragraph (3),
 the Secretary shall be responsible for delivering.
 (3) UNITED STATES OBLIGATIONS UNDER 1906 AND 1933 CONVENTIONS- In authorizing
 the agreement described in paragraph (2), this Act--
 (A) does not in any way affect the jurisdiction, powers, or prerogatives of
 the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, and
 (B) does not in any way impede the ability of the United States Government
 to fulfill its obligations under the 1906 and 1933 Conventions.
 (c) USE OF CANAL AS CONVEYANCE CHANNEL-
 (1) USE BY MEXICO-  The Secretary may enter into an agreement with Mexico
 which permits Mexico to usethe American Canal as a conveyance channel. Any
 such agreement shall require Mexico to make payments to the United States
 for Mexico's use of the American Canal.
 (2) USE BY NON-FEDERAL ENTITIES- Upon obtaining the express approval of the
 Secretary, El Paso County Water Improvement District Number 1 may enter into
 agreements with other non-Federal entities pursuant to which such entities
 may use the American Canal as a conveyance channel.
 (d) MAINTENANCE OF EXTENSION- The Secretary shall maintain the extension
 of the American Canal provided for in subsection (a).
 (e) LOCAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO COSTS- The extension of the American Canal
 provided for in subsection (a) may not be constructed unless the Secretary
 and El Paso County Water Improvement District Number 1 have entered into
 the following agreements:
 (1) CONSTRUCTION COSTS- An agreement pursuant to which El Paso County
 Water Improvement District Number 1 will pay $5,000,000 as its share of the
 construction costs for the construction of the extension of the American
 Canal provided for in subsection (a).
 (2) MAINTENANCE COSTS- An agreement pursuant to which El Paso County Water
 Improvement District Number 1 will contribute a cumulative amount of $50,000
 each year to the United States Commissioner as its share of the costs for
 maintenance of the extention of the American Canal provided for in subsection
 (a). After the 7-year anniversary of the completion of the construction of
 that extension (and after the end of each 7-year interval since the last
 such renegotiation), the Secretary and the El Paso County Water Improvement
 District Number 1 may renegotiate the amount of the contribution of El
 Paso County Water Improvement District Number 1 pursuant to the agreement
 required by this paragraph in order to reflect any increase in Bureau of
 Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index-Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers
 (CPI-W)-1982-84-100 Index. In the event the funds contributed by the El
 Paso County Water Improvement District Number 1 pursuant to this paragraph
 are not utilized during any given year, the funds shall be carried over
 to the succeeding years in a contingency fund for necessary preventative
 and routine maintenance work to be performed by the United States Section,
 International Boundary and Water Commission.
 (f) REPEAL OF PREVIOUS CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION- Title IV of the Act
 entitled `An Act to authorize various Federal reclamation projects and
 programs, and for other purposes', approved September 28, 1976 (Public Law
 94-423; 90 Stat. 1327), is repealed.
SEC. 4. STUDY OF SUBSIDENCE DAMAGE.
 The Secretary--
 (1) shall conduct a study to determine the likelihood and extent of any
 damage to property adjacent to the American Canal which would be caused by
 subsidence related to the Canal extension provided for in section 3(a), and
 (2) shall submit a report to the Congress detailing his findings not later
 than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated--
 (1) $42,000,000 to construct the extension of the American Canal provided
 for in section 3(a); and
 (2) such sums as may be necessary to operate and maintain that extension
 and to conduct the study required by section 4.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `American Canal' means the Rio Grande American Canal constructed
 pursuant to the Act of August 29, 1935 (49 Stat. 961);
 (2) the term `United States Commissioner' means the United States
 Commissioner, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States
 and Mexico; and
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of State, acting through the
 United States Commissioner.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.