 
--H.R.2061--
H.R.2061
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize appropriations to carry out the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
Management Act through fiscal year 1993, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS
 SECTION 1. (a) SHORT TITLE- The Act may be cited as the `Fishery Conservation
 Amendments of 1990'.
 (b) TABLE OF CONTENTS-
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO MAGNUSON FISHERY CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT ACT
Sec. 101. Findings, purposes, and policy.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Authority with respect to highly migratory species.
Sec. 104. Foreign fishing.
Sec. 105. Existing international fishery agreements.
Sec. 106. Permits for foreign fishing.
Sec. 107. Driftnet fishing.
Sec. 108. Regional Councils.
Sec. 109. Contents of fishery management plans.
Sec. 110. Action by Secretary of fishery management plans.
Sec. 111. Implementation of fishery management plans.
Sec. 112. State jurisdiction.
Sec. 113. Prohibition of certain acts.
Sec. 114. Civil penalties and permit sanctions.
Sec. 115. Criminal offenses and penalties.
Sec. 116. Civil forfeitures.
Sec. 117. Enforcement.
Sec. 118. North Pacific fisheries research plan.
Sec. 119. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 120. Miscellaneous technical amendments.
TITLE II--ATLANTIC TUNAS CONVENTION ACT OF 1975
Sec. 201. Limitations on appointments of Commissioners.
Sec. 202. Termination of current terms and completion of pending appointments.
Sec. 203. Travel expenses of Commissioners.
Sec. 204. Travel expenses of advisory committee.
Sec. 205. Species working groups.
Sec. 206. Regulations to carry out Commission recommendations.
Sec. 207. Recommended Commission actions regarding large-scale driftnet
fishing and conservation of Atlantic swordfish.
Sec. 208. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE III--FISHERMEN'S PROTECTIVE ACT OF 1967
Sec. 301. Vessel seizure reimbursement authority.
TITLE IV--ANADROMOUS FISH CONSERVATION ACT
Sec. 401. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE V--INTERJURISDICTIONAL FISHERIES ACT OF 1986
Sec. 501. Clarification of appointment limitation.
Sec. 502. Federal share of activities carried out with additional
appropriations.
Sec. 503. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL, WESTERN, AND SOUTH PACIFIC FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT ACT
Sec. 601. Authorization of appropriations.
TITLE VII--NATIONAL FISH AND SEAFOOD PROMOTIONAL COUNCIL
Sec. 701. Extension of termination date.
Sec. 702. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 703. Transfer of Saltonstall-Kennedy funds.
Sec. 704. Continuity of National Council membership.
Sec. 705. Continuity of Council functions, contracts, and personnel.
TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 801. Certificate of legal origin for anadromous fish products.
TITLE IX--DOLPHIN PROTECTION CONSUMER INFORMATION
Sec. 901. Dolphin protection.
TITLE X--FISHERIES COMMISSION
Sec. 1001. Redesignation of Fisheries Commission.
TITLE XI--REPORT ON MARINE MAMMALS
Sec. 1101. Report on certain marine mammal populations.
TITLE I--AMENDMENTS TO MAGNUSON FISHERY CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT ACT
FINDINGS, PURPOSES, AND POLICY
 SEC. 101. (a) FINDINGS- Section 2(a) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801(a)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new paragraph:
 `(8) The collection of reliable data is essential to the effective
 conservation, management, and scientific understanding of the fishery
 resources of the United States.'.
 (b) PURPOSES- (1) Section 2(b)(1) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801(b)(1)) is amended by striking `except highly
 migratory species'.
 (2) Section 2(b)(5) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1801(b)(5)) is amended by striking `prepare, monitor, and revise'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `exercise sound judgment in the stewardship
 of fishery resources through the preparation, monitoring, and revision of'.
 (c) POLICY- Section 2(c) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1801(c)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3) by inserting `considers the effects of fishing on
 immature fish and encourages development of practical measures that avoid
 unnecessary waste of fish;' immediately after `and enforcement;'
 (2) by striking `and' at the end of paragraph (4); and
 (3) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (5) and inserting in
 lieu thereof `, and to secure agreements to regulate fishing by vessels or
 persons beyond the exclusive economic zones of any nation; and'; and
 (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) to foster and maintain the diversity of fisheries in the United States.'.
definitions
 SEC. 102. (a) GENERAL- Section 3 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1802) is amended--
 (1) by redesignating paragraph (16) as paragraph (17), by redesignating
 paragraph (17) as paragraph (19), by redesignating paragraphs (18) through
 (23) as paragraphs (21) through (26), respectively, and by redesignating
 paragraphs (24) through (27) as paragraphs (28) through (31), respectively;
 (2) in paragraph (7), by striking `, birds, and highly migratory species'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `and birds';
 (3) by amending paragraph (14) to read as follows:
 `(14) The term `highly migratory species' means tuna species, marlin
 (Tetrapturus spp. and Makaira spp.), oceanic sharks, sailfishes (Istiophorus
 spp.), and swordfish (Xiphias gladius).';
 (4) by inserting immediately after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph:
 `(16) The term `large-scale driftnet fishing' means a method of fishing in
 which a gillnet composed of a panel or panels of webbing, or a series of
 such gillnets, with a total length of one and one-half miles or more is
 placed in the water and allowed to drift with the currents and winds for
 the purpose of entangling fish in the webbing.';
 (5) by inserting immediately after paragraph (17), as so redesignated,
 the following new paragraph:
 `(18) The term `migratory range' means the maximum area at a given time of
 the year within which fish of an anadromous species or stock thereof can be
 expected to be found, as determined on the basis of scale pattern analysis,
 tagging studies, or other reliable scientific information, except that the
 term does not include any part of such area which is in the waters of a
 foreign nation.';
 (6) by inserting immediately after paragraph (19), as so redesignated,
 the following new paragraph:
 `(20) The term `observer' means any person required or authorized to be
 carried on a vessel for conservation and management purposes by regulations
 or permits under this Act.';
 (7) by inserting immediately after paragraph (26), as so redesignated,
 the following new paragraph:
 `(27) The term `tuna species' means the following:
 `Albacore Tuna--Thunnus alalunga;
 `Bigeye Tuna--Thunnus obesus;
 `Bluefin Tuna--Thunnus thynnus;
 `Skipjack Tuna--Katsuwonus pelamis; and
 `Yellowfin Tuna--Thunnus albacares.'; and
 (8) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(32) The term `waters of a foreign nation' means any part of the territorial
 sea or exclusive economic zone (or the equivalent) of a foreign nation,
 to the extent such territorial sea or exclusive economic zone is recognized
 by the United States.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- Section 101(b)(1) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1811(b)(1)) is amended by striking
 `any foreign nation's' and all that follows and inserting in lieu thereof
 `any waters of a foreign nation.'.
AUTHORITY WITH RESPECT TO HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES
 SEC. 103. (a) GENERAL- Section 102 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1812) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 102. HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES.
 `The United States shall cooperate directly or through appropriate
 international organizations with those nations involved in fisheries for
 highly migratory species with a view to ensuring conservation and promoting
 the objective of optimum utilization of such species throughout their range,
 both within and beyond the exclusive economic zone.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The entry for section 102 in the table of contents
 in the first section of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 102. Highly migratory species.'.
 (c) EFFECTIVE DATE- The amendments made by this section shall take effect
 on January 1, 1992.
FOREIGN FISHING
 SEC. 104. Subsection (d) of section 201 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1821) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d) TOTAL ALLOWABLE LEVEL OF FOREIGN FISHING- The total allowable level
 of foreign fishing, if any, with respect to any fishery subject to the
 exclusive fishery management authority of the United States, shall be that
 portion of the optimum yield of such fishery which will not be harvested
 by vessels of the United States, as determined in accordance with this Act.'.
INTERNATIONAL FISHERY AGREEMENTS
 SEC. 105. (a) HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES AGREEMENTS- Section 202 of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1822) is amended
 by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f) and by inserting immediately
 after subsection (d) the following new subsection:
 `(e) Highly Migratory Species Agreements-
 `(1) EVALUATION- The Secretary of State, in cooperation with the Secretary,
 shall evaluate the  effectiveness of each existing international fishery
 agreement which pertains to fishing for highly migratory species. Such
 evaluation shall consider whether the agreement provides for--
 `(A) the collection and analysis of necessary information for effectively
 managing the fishery, including but not limited to information about the
 number of vessels involved, the type and quantity of fishing gear used,
 the species of fish involved and their location, the catch and bycatch
 levels in the fishery, and the present and probable future condition of
 any stock of fish involved;
 `(B) the establishment of measures applicable to the fishery which are
 necessary and appropriate for the conservation and management of the fishery
 resource involved;
 `(C) equitable arrangements which provide fishing vessels of the United
 States with (i) access to the highly migratory species that are the subject
 of the agreement and (ii) a portion of the allowable catch that reflects
 the traditional participation by such vessels in the fishery;
 `(D) effective enforcement of conservation and management measures and
 access arrangements throughout the area of jurisdiction; and
 `(E) sufficient and dependable funding to implement the provisions of
 the agreement, based on reasonable assessments of the benefits derived by
 participating nations.
 `(2) ACCESS NEGOTIATIONS- The Secretary of State, in cooperation with the
 Secretary, shall initiate negotiations with respect to obtaining access for
 vessels of the United States fishing for tuna species within the exclusive
 economic zones of other nations on reasonable terms and conditions.
 `(3) REPORTS- The Secretary of State shall report to the Congress--
 `(A) within 12 months after the date of enactment of this subsection, on
 the results of the evaluation required under paragraph (1), together with
 recommendations for addressing any inadequacies identified; and
 `(B) within six months after such date of enactment, on the results of the
 access negotiations required under paragraph (2).
 `(4) NEGOTIATION- The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary,
 shall undertake such negotiations with respect to international fishery
 agreements on highly migratory species as are necessary to correct
 inadequacies identified as a result of the evaluation conducted under
 paragraph (1).
 `(5) SOUTH PACIFIC TUNA TREATY- It is the sense of the Congress that
 the United States Government shall, at the earliest opportunity, begin
 negotiations for the purpose of extending the Treaty on Fisheries Between
 the Governments of Certain Pacific Island States and the Government of
 the United States of America, signed at Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea,
 April 2, 1987, and it Annexes, Schedules, and implementing agreements for
 an additional term of 10 years on terms and conditions at least as favorable
 to vessels of the United States and the United States Government.'.
 (b) DETERMINATIONS OF SECRETARY OF STATE- (1) Section 205(a) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1825(a)) is amended--
 (A) in paragraph (1) by striking `traditional' and by inserting `including
 fisheries for tuna species,' immediately after `authority,'; and
 (B) in paragraph (2) by striking `highly migratory' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `tuna'.
 (2) The amendments made by this subsection shall take effect on January
 1, 1992.
permits for foreign fishing
 SEC. 106. (a) FEES- Section 204(b)(10) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1824(b)(10)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(10) Fees-
 `(A) Fees shall be paid to the Secretary by the owner or operator of any
 foreign fishing vessel for which a permit has been issued pursuant to this
 section. The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall
 establish a schedule of reasonable fees that shall apply nondiscriminatorily
 to each foreign nation.
 `(B) Amounts collected by the Secretary under this paragraph shall be
 deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.'.
 (b) SANCTIONS- Section 204(b)(12) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1824(b)(12)) is repealed.
DRIFTNET FISHING
 SEC. 107. (a) GENERAL- Section 206 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1826) is amended to read as follows:
`SEC. 206.  LARGE-SCALE DRIFTNET FISHING.
 `(a) SHORT TITLE- This section incorporates and expands upon provisions
 of the Driftnet Impact Monitoring, Assessment, and Control Act of 1987 and
 may be cited as the `Driftnet Act Amendments of 1990'.
 `(b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 `(1) the continued widespread use of large-scale driftnets beyond the
 exclusive economic zone of any nation is a destructive fishing practice that
 poses a threat to living marine resources of the world's oceans, including
 but not limited to the North and South Pacific Ocean and the Bering Sea;
 `(2) the use of large-scale  driftnets is expanding into new regions of
 the world's oceans, including the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea;
 `(3) there is a pressing need for detailed and reliable information on the
 number of seabirds, sea turtles, nontarget fish, and marine mammals that
 become entangled and die in actively fished large-scale driftnets and in
 large-scale driftnets that are lost, abandoned, or discarded;
 `(4) increased efforts, including reliable observer data and enforcement
 mechanisms, are needed to monitor, assess, control, and reduce the adverse
 impact of large-scale driftnet fishing on living marine resources;
 `(5) the nations of the world have agreed in the United Nations, through
 General Assembly Resolution Numbered 44-225, approved December 22, 1989,
 by the General Assembly, that a moratorium should be imposed by June 30,
 1992, on the use of large-scale driftnets beyond the exclusive economic
 zone of any nation;
 `(6) the nations of the South Pacific have agreed to a moratorium on the
 use of large-scale driftnets in the South Pacific through the Convention
 for the Prohibition of Fishing with Long Driftnets in the South Pacific,
 which was agreed to in Wellington, New Zealand, on November 29, 1989; and
 `(7) increasing population pressures and new knowledge of the importance
 of living marine resources to the health of the global ecosystem demand
 that greater responsibility be exercised by persons fishing or developing
 new fisheries beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
 `(c) POLICY- It is declared to be the policy of the Congress in this section
 that the United States should--
 `(1) implement the moratorium called for by the United Nations General
 Assembly in Resolution Numbered 44-225;
 `(2) support the Tarawa Declaration and the Wellington Convention for the
 Prohibition of Fishing with Long Driftnets in the South Pacific; and
 `(3) secure a permanent ban on the use of destructive fishing practices,
 and in particular large-scale driftnets, by persons or vessels fishing
 beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation.
 `(d) INTERNATIONAL AGREEMENTS- The Secretary, through the Secretary of State
 and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating,
 shall seek to secure international agreements to implement immediately
 the findings, policy, and provisions of this section, and in particular an
 international ban on large-scale driftnet fishing. The Secretary, through the
 Secretary of State, shall include, in any agreement which addresses the taking
 of living marine resources of the United States, provisions to ensure that--
 `(1) each large-scale driftnet fishing vessel of a foreign nation that is
 party to the agreement, including vessels that may operate independently
 to develop new fishing areas, which operate beyond the exclusive economic
 zone of any nation, is included in such agreement;
 `(2) each large-scale driftnet fishing vessel of a foreign nation that
 is party to the agreement, which operates beyond the exclusive economic
 zone of any nation, is equipped with satellite transmitters which provide
 real-time position information accessible to the United States;
 `(3) statistically reliable monitoring by the United States is carried
 out, through the use of on-board observers or through dedicated platforms
 provided by foreign nations that are parties to the agreement, of all
 target and nontarget fish species, marine mammals, sea turtles, and sea
 birds entangled or killed by large-scale driftnets used by fishing vessels
 of foreign nations that are parties to the agreement;
 `(4) officials of the United States have the right to board and inspect
 for violations of the agreement any large-scale driftnet fishing vessels
 operating under the flag of a foreign nation that is party to the agreement
 at any time while such vessel is operating in designated areas beyond the
 exclusive economic zone of any nation;
 `(5) all catch landed or transshipped at sea by large-scale driftnet
 fishing vessels of a foreign nation that is a party to the agreement,
 and which are operated beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation,
 is reliably monitored and documented;
 `(6) time and area restrictions are imposed on the use of large-scale
 driftnets in order to prevent interception of anadromous species;
 `(7) all large-scale driftnets used are constructed, insofar as feasible,
 with biodegradable materials which break into segments that do not represent
 a threat to living marine resources;
 `(8) all large-scale driftnets are marked at appropriate intervals in a
 manner that conclusively identifies the vessel and flag nation responsible
 for each such driftnet;
 `(9) the taking of nontarget fish species, marine mammals, sea turtles,
 seabirds, and endangered species or other species protected by international
 agreements to which the United States is a party is minimized and does not
 pose a threat to existing fisheries or the long-term health of living marine
 resources; and
 `(10) definitive steps are agreed upon to ensure that parties to the agreement
 comply with the spirit of other international agreements and resolutions
 concerning the use of large-scale driftnets beyond the exclusive economic
 zone of any nation.
 `(e) REPORT- Not later than January 1, 1991, and every year thereafter until
 the purposes of this section are met, the Secretary, after consultation
 with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the department in which
 the Coast Guard is operating, shall submit to the Committee on Commerce,
 Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant
 Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives a report--
 `(1) describing the steps taken to carry out the provisions of this section,
 particularly subsection (c);
 `(2) evaluating the progress of those efforts, the impacts on living marine
 resources, including available observer data, and specifying plans for
 further action;
 `(3) identifying and evaluating the effectiveness of unilateral measures and
 multilateral measures, including sanctions, that are available to encourage
 nations to agree to and comply with this section, and recommendations for
 legislation to authorize any additional measures that are needed if those
 are considered ineffective;
 `(4) identifying, evaluating, and making any recommendations considered
 necessary to improve the effectiveness of the law, policy, and procedures
 governing enforcement of the exclusive management authority of the United
 States over anadromous species against fishing vessels engaged in fishing
 beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation;
 `(5) containing a list and description of any new fisheries developed by
 nations that conduct, or authorize their nationals to conduct, large-scale
 driftnet fishing beyond the exclusive economic zone of any nation; and
 `(6) containing a list of the nations that conduct, or authorize their
 nationals to conduct, large-scale driftnet fishing beyond the exclusive
 economic zone of any nation in a manner that diminishes the effectiveness of
 or is inconsistent with any international agreement governing large-scale
 driftnet fishing to which the United States is a party or otherwise
 subscribes.
 `(f) CERTIFICATION- If at any time the Secretary, in consultation with the
 Secretary of State and the Secretary of the department in which the Coast
 Guard is operating, identifies any nation that warrants inclusion in the list
 described under subsection (e)(6), the Secretary shall certify that fact
 to the President. Such certification shall be deemed to be a certification
 for the purposes of section 8(a) of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967
 (22 U.S.C. 1978(a)).
 `(g) EFFECT ON SOVEREIGN RIGHTS- This section shall not serve or be
 construed to expand or diminish the sovereign rights of the United States,
 as stated by Presidential Proclamation Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983,
 and reflected in this Act or other existing law.
 `(h) DEFINITION- As used in this section, the term `living marine
 resources' includes fish, marine mammals, sea turtles, and seabirds and
 other waterfowl.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The entry for section 206 in the table of contents
 in the first section of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 206. Large-scale driftnet fishing.'.
REGIONAL COUNCILS
 SEC. 108. (a) AUTHORITY OVER CERTAIN FISHERIES- Section 302(a) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(a)) is amended by
 inserting `(except as provided in section 304(f)(3))' immediately before the
 period at the end of the first sentence in each of paragraphs (1) through (5).
 (b) MEMBERS' QUALIFICATIONS- Paragraph (2) of section 302(b) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(b)) is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(2)(A) The members of each Council required to be appointed by the
 Secretary must be individuals who, by reason of their occupational or other
 experience, scientific expertise, or training, are knowledgeable regarding
 the conservation and management, or the commercial or recreational harvest,
 of the fishery resources of the geographical area concerned. Within nine
 months after the date of enactment of the Fishery Conservation Amendments of
 1990, the Secretary shall, by regulation, prescribe criteria for determining
 whether an individual satisfies the requirements of this subparagraph.
 `(B) The Secretary, in making appointments under this section, shall, to the
 extent practicable, ensure a fair and balanced apportionment, on a rotating
 or other basis, of the active participants (or their representatives)
 in the commercial and recreational fisheries under the jurisdiction of
 the Council. On January 31, 1991, and each year thereafter, the Secretary
 shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
 the Senate and the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House
 of Representatives a report on the actions taken by the Secretary to ensure
 that such fair and balanced apportionment is achieved. The report shall--
 `(i) list the fisheries under the jurisdiction of each Council, outlining
 for each fishery the type and quantity of fish harvested, fishing and
 processing methods employed, the number of participants, the duration and
 range of the fishery, and other distinguishing characteristics;
 `(ii) assess the membership of each Council in terms of the apportionment
 of the active participants in each such fishery; and
 `(iii) state the Secretary's plans and schedule for actions to achieve a
 fair and balanced apportionment on the Council for the active participants
 in any such fishery.
 `(C) The Secretary shall appoint the members of each Council from a list
 of individuals submitted by the Governor of each applicable constituent
 State. A Governor may not submit the names of individuals to the Secretary for
 appointment unless the Governor has determined that each such individual is
 qualified under the requirements of subparagraph (A) and unless the Governor
 has, to the extent practicable, first consulted with representatives of
 the commercial and recreational fishing interests of the State regarding
 those individuals. Each such list shall include the names and pertinent
 biographical data of not less than three individuals for each applicable
 vacancy and shall be accompanied by a statement by the Governor explaining
 how each such individual meets the requirements of subparagraph (A). The
 Secretary shall review each list submitted by a Governor to ascertain if
 the individuals on the list are qualified for the vacancy on the basis of
 such requirements. If the Secretary determines that any individual is not
 qualified, the Secretary shall notify the appropriate Governor of that
 determination. The Governor shall then submit a revised list or resubmit
 the original list with an additional explanation of the qualifications of
 the individual in question. An individual is not eligible for appointment by
 the Secretary until that individual complies with the applicable financial
 disclosure requirements under subsection (k).
 `(D) Whenever the Secretary makes an appointment to a Council, the Secretary
 shall make a public announcement of such appointment not less than 45 days
 before the first day on which the individual is to take office as a member
 of the Council.'.
 (c) LIMITATION ON TERMS OF VOTING MEMBERS- Section 302(b)(3) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(b)(3)) is amended
 by adding at the end the following new sentence: `No member appointed after
 January 1, 1986, may serve more than three consecutive terms. Any term
 completed prior to January 1, 1986, shall not be counted in determining
 the number of consecutive terms served by any Council member.'.
 (d) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- Section 302(d) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(d)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(d) COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES- The voting members of each Council, who are
 not employed by the Federal Government or any State or local government,
 shall, until January 1, 1992, receive compensation at the daily rate
 for GS-18 of the General Schedule, and after December 31, 1991, at the
 daily rate for GS-16 of the General Schedule, when engaged in the actual
 performance of duties for such Council. The voting members of each Council,
 any nonvoting member described in subsection (c)(1)(C), and the nonvoting
 member appointed pursuant to subsection (c)(2) shall be reimbursed for actual
 expenses incurred in the performance of such duties, and other nonvoting
 members and Council staff members may be reimbursed for actual expenses.'.
 (e) TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS- (1) Section 302(e)(3) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(e)(3)) is amended by striking
 `in the geographical area concerned' and inserting in lieu thereof `at
 appropriate times and places in any of the constituent States of the Council'.
 (2) Section 302(e)(4) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1852(e)(4)) is amended by adding at the end the following new
 sentence: `The regional director of the National Marine Fisheries Service
 serving on the Council, or the regional director's designee, shall submit
 such a statement, which shall be made available to the public upon request,
 if the regional director disagrees with any such matter.'.
 (f) COMMITTEES AND PANELS- Section 302(g) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(g)) is amended by adding at the end the
 following new paragraph:
 `(3)(A) Each Council shall establish and maintain a fishing industry advisory
 committee which shall provide information and recommendations on, and assist
 in the development of, fishery management plans and amendments to such plans.
 `(B) Appointments to a committee established under subparagraph (A) shall
 be made by each Council in such a manner as to provide fair representation
 to commercial fishing interests in the geographical area of authority of
 the Council.
 `(4) Decisions and recommendations made by committees and panels established
 under this subsection shall be considered to be advisory in nature.'.
 (g) COUNCIL FUNCTIONS- Paragraphs (1) and (5) of section 302(h) of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(h))
 are each amended by inserting `(except as provided in section 304(f)(3))'
 immediately before `within its geographical'.
 (h) FISHERY HABITAT CONCERNS- Section 302(i) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(i)) is amended to read
 as follows:
 `(i) FISHERY HABITAT CONCERNS- (1) Each Council--
 `(A) may comment on and make recommendations concerning any activity
 undertaken, or proposed to be undertaken, by any State or Federal agency
 that, in the view of the Council, may affect the habitat of a fishery
 resource under its jurisdiction; and
 `(B) shall comment on and make recommendations concerning any such activity
 that, in the view of the Council, is likely to substantially affect the
 habitat of an anadromous fishery resource under its jurisdiction.
 `(2) Within 45 days after receiving a comment or recommendation under
 paragraph (1) from a Council, a Federal agency shall provide a detailed
 response, in writing, to the Council regarding the matter. In the case of a
 comment or recommendation under paragraph (1)(B), the response shall include
 a description of measures being considered by the agency for mitigating or
 offsetting the impact of the activity on such habitat.'.
 (i) CLOSED MEETINGS- Section 302(j)(3) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)(3)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (A)--
 (A) by striking the semicolon at the end of clause (ii) and all that follows
 through `time and place of the meeting.' and inserting in lieu thereof a
 period; and
 (B) by inserting `of paragraph (2)' immediately after `(D) and (F)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
 `(B) If any meeting or portion is closed, the Council concerned shall notify
 local newspapers in the major fishing ports within its region (and in other
 major, affected fishing ports), including in that notification the time
 and place of the meeting. This subpararaph does not require notification
 regarding any brief closure of a portion of a meeting in order to discuss
 employment or other internal administrative matters.'.
 (j) CONSIDERATION OF NEW INFORMATION- Section 302(j) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)) is amended by adding
 at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(6) At any time when a Council determines it appropriate to consider new
 information from a State or Federal agency or from a Council advisory body,
 the Council shall give comparable consideration to new information offered
 at that time by interested members of the public. Interested parties shall
 have a reasonable opportunity to respond to new data or information before
 the Council takes final action on conservation and management measures.'.
 (k) INTERIM MANAGEMENT OF HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES FISHERIES- Notwithstanding
 the amendments made by subsections (a) and (g), any fishery management plan
 or amendment which--
 (1) addresses a highly migratory species fishery to which section 304(f)(3)
 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (as amended by this
 Act) applies,
 (2) was prepared by one or more Regional Fishery Management Councils, and
 (3) was in force and effect on January 1, 1990,
shall remain in force and effect until superseded by a fishery management
plan prepared by the Secretary, and regulations implementing that plan.
CONTENTS OF FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLANS
 SEC. 109. (a) REQUIRED DATA COLLECTION AND GEAR- Section 303(a) of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1853(a))
 is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(A) by inserting `, to prevent overfishing, and to
 protect, restore, and promote the long-term health and stability of the
 fishery' immediately before the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (1)(C) by inserting `regulations implementing recommendations
 by international organizations in which the United States participates
 (including but not limited to closed areas, quotas, and size limits),'
 immediately after `this Act,';
 (3) by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:
 `(6) consider and provide for temporary adjustments, after consultation
 with the Coast Guard and persons utilizing the fishery, regarding access
 to the fishery for vessels otherwise prevented from harvesting because of
 weather or other ocean conditions affecting the safe conduct of the fishery;
 except that the adjustment shall not adversely affect conservation efforts in
 other fisheries or discriminate among participants in the affected fishery;';
 (4) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (7) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(8) in the case of a fishery management plan that, after January 1, 1991,
 is submitted to the Secretary for review under section 304(a) (including any
 plan for which an amendment is submitted to the Secretary for such review)
 or is prepared by the Secretary, assess and specify the nature and extent of
 scientific data which is needed for effective implementation of the plan; and
 `(9) include a fishery impact statement for the plan or amendment (in
 the case of a plan or amendment thereto submitted to or prepared by the
 Secretary after October 1, 1990) which shall assess, specify, and describe
 the likely effects, if any, of the conservation and management measures on--
 `(A) participants in the fisheries affected by the plan or amendment; and
 `(B) participants in the fisheries conducted in adjacent areas under the
 authority of another Council, after consultation with such Council and
 representatives of those participants.'.
 (b) DISCRETIONARY PROVISIONS- (1) Paragraph (1) of section 303(b) of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1853(b)) is
 amended to read as follows:
 `(1) require a permit to be obtained from, and fees to be paid to, the
 Secretary, with respect to--
 `(A) any fishing vessel of the United States fishing, or wishing to fish,
 in the exclusive economic zone or for anadromous species or Continental
 Shelf fishery resources beyond such zone;
 `(B) the operator of any such vessel; or
 `(C) any United States fish processor who first receives fish that are
 subject to the plan;'.
 (2) Section 303(b) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1853(b)) is amended by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as
 paragraphs (9) and (10), respectively, and by inserting immediately after
 paragraph (6) the following new paragraphs:
 `(7) require fish processors who first receive fish that are subject to the
 plan to submit data (other than economic data) which are necessary for the
 conservation and management of the fishery;
 `(8) require that observers be carried on board a vessel of the United
 States engaged in fishing for species that are subject to the plan, for the
 purpose of collecting data necessary for the conservation and management
 of the fishery; except that such a vessel shall not be required to carry
 an observer on board if the facilities of the vessel for the quartering of
 an observer, or for carrying out observer functions, are so inadequate or
 unsafe that the health or safety of the observer or the safe operation of
 the vessel would be jeopardized;'.
 (c) CONFIDENTIALITY OF STATISTICS- Section 303(d) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1853(d)) is amended--
 (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by striking `subsection (a)(5)'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `subsections (a) and (b)';
 (2) by striking `or' at the end of paragraph (1);
 (3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
 (4) by inserting immediately after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:
 `(2) to State employees pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary that
 prevents public disclosure of the identity or business of any person; or'; and
 (5) by adding at the end the following new sentence: `Nothing in this
 subsection shall be interpreted or construed to prevent the use for
 conservation and management purposes by the Secretary, or with the approval
 of the Secretary, the Council, of any statistic submitted in compliance
 with a requirement under subsection (a) or (b).'.
 (d) USE OF CERTAIN DATA- Section 303 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation
 and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1853) is further amended by adding at the
 end the following new subsection:
 `(f) RESTRICTION ON USE OF CERTAIN DATA- The Secretary shall promulgate
 regulations to restrict the use, in civil enforcement or criminal proceedings
 under this Act, the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1361 et
 seq.), or the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), of information
 collected by voluntary fishery data collectors, including sea samplers,
 while aboard any vessel for conservation and management purposes if the
 presence of such a fishery data collector aboard is not required by any of
 such Acts or regulations thereunder.'.
ACTION BY SECRETARY ON FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLANS
 SEC. 110. (a) FISHERIES RESEARCH- Subsection (e) of section 304 of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1854) is amended
 to read as follows:
 `(e) FISHERIES RESEARCH- (1) Within one year after the date of enactment of
 the Fishery Conservation Amendments of 1990, and at least every three years
 thereafter, the Secretary shall develop and publish in the Federal Register
 a strategic plan for fisheries research for the five years immediately
 following such publication. The plan shall--
 `(A) identify and describe a comprehensive program with a limited number of
 priority objectives for research in each of the areas specified in paragraph
 (2);
 `(B) indicate the goals and timetables for the program described in
 subparagraph (A); and
 `(C) provide a role for affected commercial fishermen in such research,
 including involvement in field testing.
 `(2) The areas of research referred to in paragraph (1) are as follows:
 `(A) Research to support fishery conservation and management, including
 research on the economics of fisheries and biological research concerning
 the interdependence of fisheries or stocks of fish, the impact of pollution
 on fish populations, the impact of wetland and estuarine degradation,
 and other matters bearing upon the abundance and availability of fish.
 `(B) Conservation engineering research, including the study of fish behavior
 and the development and testing of new gear technology and fishing techniques
 to minimize the harvest of nontarget species and promote efficient harvest
 of target species.
 `(C) Information management research, including the development of a fishery
 information base and an information management system that will permit
 the full use of data in the support of effective fishery conservation
 and management.
 `(3) In developing the plan required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall
 consult with relevant Federal agencies, scientific and technical experts, and
 other interested persons, public and private, and shall publish a proposed
 plan in the Federal Register for the purpose of receiving public comment on
 the plan. The Secretary shall ensure that affected commercial fishermen are
 actively involved in the development of the portion of the plan pertaining
 to conservation engineering research. Upon final publication in the Federal
 Register, the plan shall be submitted by the Secretary to the Committee on
 Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on
 Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives.'.
 (b) MANAGEMENT OF HIGHLY MIGRATORY SPECIES FISHERIES- (1) Section 304(f)
 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1854(f))
 is amended--
 (A) by striking `MISCELLANEOUS DUTIES' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `FISHERIES UNDER AUTHORITY OF MORE THAN ONE COUNCIL';
 (B) in paragraph (1) by striking `If' and inserting in lieu thereof `Except
 as provided in paragraph (3), if'; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(3)(A) The Secretary shall have authority over any highly migratory species
 fishery that is within the geographical area of authority of more than
 one of the  following Councils: New England Council, Mid-Atlantic Council,
 South Atlantic Council, Gulf Council, and Caribbean Council.
 `(B) In accordance with the provisions of this Act and any other applicable
 law, the Secretary shall--
 `(i) identify research and  information priorities, including observer
 requirements and necessary data collection and analysis for the conservation
 and management of highly migratory species;
 `(ii) prepare and amend fishery management plans with respect to highly
 migratory species fisheries to which this paragraph applies; and
 `(iii)  diligently pursue, through international entities (such as
 the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas),
 international fishery management measures with respect to fishing for highly
 migratory species.
 `(C) In preparing or amending any fishery management plan under this
 paragraph, the Secretary shall--
 `(i) conduct public hearings, at appropriate times and in appropriate
 locations in the geographical areas concerned, so as to allow interested
 persons an opportunity to be heard in the preparation and amendment of
 the plan;
 `(ii) consult with and consider the comments and views of commissioners and
 advisory groups appointed under Acts implementing relevant international
 fishery agreements pertaining to highly migratory species;
 `(iii) consult with and consider the comments and views of affected Councils;
 `(iv) evaluate the likely effects, if any, of conservation and management
 measures on participants in the fisheries affected by the plan and minimize,
 to the extent practicable, any disadvantage to United States fishermen in
 relation to foreign competitors; and
 `(v) review, on a continuing basis  (and promptly whenever a recommendation
 pertaining to fishing for highly migratory species has been made under
 a relevant international fishery agreement), and revise as appropriate,
 the conservation and management measures included in the plan.
 `(D) Conservation and management measures contained in any fishery  management
 plan under this paragraph shall--
 `(i) take into consideration traditional fishing patterns of fishing  vessels
 of the United States and the operating requirements of the fisheries;
 `(ii) be  fair and equitable in allocating fishing privileges among United
 States  fishermen and not have economic allocation as the sole purpose; and
 `(iii) promote international conservation.
 `(E) With respect to a highly migratory species for which the United States is
 authorized to harvest an  allocation or quota under a relevant international
 fishery agreement, the Secretary shall provide fishing vessels  of the United
 States with a reasonable opportunity to harvest such allocation or quota.
 `(F) In implementing the provisions of this paragraph, the Secretary shall
 consult with--
 `(i) the Secretary of State;
 `(ii) commissioners and advisory groups appointed under Acts implementing
 relevant international fishery agreements pertaining to highly migratory
 species; and
 `(iii)  appropriate Councils.'.
 (2) Section 305(a)(3) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16  U.S.C. 1855(a)(3)), as redesignated by section 111(a)(1) of this Act,
 is amended by inserting `or (f)(3)' immediately  after `304(c)'.
 (c) INCIDENTAL HARVEST RESEARCH- Section 304 of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act  (16 U.S.C.  1854) is amended by adding at
 the end the following new subsection.
 `(g) INCIDENTAL HARVEST RESEARCH- (1) Within 9 months after the date of
 enactment of the Fishery Conservation Amendments of 1990, the Secretary
 shall, after consultation with the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council
 and South Atlantic Fishery Management Council, establish  by regulation
 a 3-year program to assess the impact on fishery resources of incidental
 harvest by the shrimp trawl fishery within the authority of such Councils.
 `(2) The program established pursuant to paragraph (1) shall provide for the
 identification of stocks of fish which are subject to significant incidental
 harvest in the course of normal shrimp trawl fishing activity.
 `(3) For stocks of fish identified pursuant to paragraph (2), with priority
 given to stocks which (based upon the best available scientific information)
 are considered to be overfished, the Secretary shall conduct--
 `(A) a program to collect and evaluate data on the nature and extent
 (including the spatial and temporal distribution) of incidental mortality
 of such stocks as a direct result of shrimp trawl fishing activities;
 `(B) an assessment of the status and condition of such stocks, including
 collection of information which would allow the estimation of life history
 parameters with sufficient accuracy and precision to support sound scientific
 evaluation of the effects of various management alternatives on the status
 of such stocks; and
 `(C) a program of data collection and evaluation for such stocks on the
 magnitude and distribution of fishing mortality and fishing effort by
 sources of fishing  mortality other than shrimp trawl fishing activity.
 `(4) The Secretary shall, in cooperation with affected interests, commence
 a program to design, and evaluate the efficacy of, technological devices
 and other changes in fishing technology for the reduction of incidental
 mortality of nontarget fishery resources in the course of shrimp trawl
 fishing activity. Such program shall take into account local conditions
 and include evaluation of any reduction in incidental mortality, as well
 as any reduction or increase in the retention of shrimp in the course of
 normal fishing activity.
 `(5) The Secretary shall, upon completion of the programs required by this
 subsection, submit a detailed report on the results of such programs to the
 Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the
 Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries of the House of Representatives.
 `(6)(A) Except as provided in this paragraph, the Secretary may not implement
 any measures under this Act  to reduce incidental mortality of nontarget
 fishery resources in the course of shrimp trawl fishing which would restrict
 the period during which shrimp are harvested or would require the use of
 any technological device or other change in fishing technology.
 `(B) The prohibition contained in subparagraph (A) shall cease on January
 1, 1994.
 `(C) This paragraph does not apply to any law or regulation in effect on
 the date of enactment of this paragraph, nor does it limit in any way the
 Secretary's authority to take action, including any limitation on entry
 permitted by this Act,  for the conservation and  management of  the shrimp
 fishery resource.'.
 (d) ATLANTIC SEA SCALLOP FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLAN- (1) The New England Fishery
 Management Council may submit to the Secretary of Commerce  an amendment to
 the Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery Management Plan. Any amendment submitted
 under this section shall--
 (A) contain measures providing for the conservation and management of
 Atlantic sea scallops, that are not based primarily on the scallop meat
 count but which may include controls on scallop harvesting effort; and
 (B) consider the views of fishermen and fish processors involved in the
 Atlantic sea scallop fishery.
 (2) If no amendment is submitted under paragraph (1) before one year after
 the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce is encouraged
 to prepare the amendment described in paragraph (1) under section 304 of
 the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1854).
IMPLEMENTATION OF FISHERY MANAGEMENT PLANS
 SEC. 111. (a) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS- (1) Section 305 of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855) is amended--
 (A) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as subsections (a),
 (b), and (c), respectively; and
 (B) by redesignating subsections (g) and (h) as subsections (d) and (e),
 respectively.
 (2) Section 304 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1854) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b)(1) by striking `305(c)' in the first sentence and
 inserting in lieu thereof `305(a)';
 (B) in subsection (b)(3)(D) by striking `305(c)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `305(a)'; and
 (C) in subsection (c)(2)(B) by striking `305(c)' and inserting in lieu
 thereof `305(a)'.
 (b) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF CERTAIN IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS- Section 305(b) of
 the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1855(b)),
 as redesignated by subsection (a)(1)(A), is amended to read as follows:
 `(b) JUDICIAL REVIEW- (1) Regulations promulgated by the Secretary under this
 Act and actions described in paragraph (2) shall be subject to judicial review
 to the extent authorized by, and in accordance with, chapter 7 of title 5,
 United States Code, if a petition for such review is filed within 30 days
 after the date on which the regulations are promulgated or the action is
 published in the Federal Register, as applicable; except that--
 `(A) section 705 of such title is not applicable, and
 `(B) the appropriate court shall only set aside any such regulation or action
 on a ground specified in section 706(2) (A), (B), (C), or (D) of such title.
 `(2) The actions referred to in paragraph (1) are actions that are taken by
 the Secretary under regulations which implement a fishery management plan,
 including but not limited to actions that establish the date of closure of
 a fishery to commercial or recreational fishing.
 `(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary shall file
 a response to any petition filed in accordance with paragraph (1), not later
 than 45 days after the date the Secretary is served with that petition,
 except that the appropriate court may extend the period for filing such a
 response upon a showing by the Secretary of good cause for that extension.
 `(B) A response of the Secretary under this paragraph shall include a copy
 of the administrative record for the regulations that are the subject of
 the petition.
 `(4) Upon a motion by the person who files a petition under this subsection,
 the appropriate court shall assign the matter for hearing at the earliest
 possible date and shall expedite the matter in every possible way.'.
state jurisdiction
 SEC. 112. Section 306(c) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1856(c)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1)(B) by inserting `and the application specifies the
 species to be processed' before the period at the end; and
 (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(2) The Governor of a State may not grant permission for a foreign fishing
 vessel to engage in fish processing under paragraph (1)--
 `(A) for a fishery which occurs in the waters of more than one State or in
 the exclusive economic zone, except after--
 `(i) consulting with the appropriate Council and Marine Fisheries Commission,
 and
 `(ii) considering any comments received from the Governor of any other
 State where the fishery occurs; and
 `(B) if the Governor determines that fish processors within the State have
 adequate capacity, and will utilize such capacity, to process all of the
 United States harvested fish from the fishery concerned that are landed in
 the State.'.
prohibition of certain acts
 SEC. 113. (a) PROHIBITIONS WITH RESPECT TO THEFT, ASSAULT, AND LARGE-SCALE
 DRIFTNET FISHING- Section 307(1) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1857(1)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `or' at the end of subparagraph (I);
 (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (J) and inserting in
 lieu thereof a semicolon; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(K) to knowingly steal,  or without authorization, to remove, damage,
 or tamper with--
 `(i) fishing gear owned by another person, which is located in the exclusive
 economic zone, or
 `(ii) fish contained in such fishing gear,
or to attempt to do so;
 `(L) to forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere
 with any observer on a vessel under this Act;
 `(M) to engage in large-scale driftnet fishing that is subject to the
 jurisdiction of the United States, including use of a fishing vessel of the
 United States to engage in such fishing beyond the exclusive economic zone
 of any nation; or
 `(N) to strip pollock of its roe and discard the flesh of the pollock.'.
 (b) VIOLATION OF INTERNATIONAL FISHERY AGREEMENT- Section 307 of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1857) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (3) by striking `; and' and inserting in lieu thereof
 a semicolon;
 (2) in paragraph (4) by striking the period at the end and inserting in
 lieu thereof `; and;' and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(5) for any vessel of the United States, and for the owner or operator
 of any vessel of the United States, to engage in fishing in the waters
 of a foreign nation in a manner that violates an international fishery
 agreement between that nation and the United States that has been subject
 to Congressional oversight in the manner described in section 203, or any
 regulations issued to implement such an agreement; except that the binding
 provisions of such agreement and implementing regulations shall have been
 published in the Federal Register prior to such violation.'.
CIVIL PENALTIES AND PERMIT SANCTIONS
 SEC. 114. (a) INCREASED PENALTY; PERMIT SANCTIONS- Section 308 of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1858) is amended--
 (1) in the section heading by inserting `AND PERMIT SANCTIONS' immediately
 after `CIVIL PENALTIES';
 (2) in subsection (a) by striking `$25,000' in the second sentence and
 inserting in lieu thereof `$100,000'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(g) PERMIT SANCTIONS- (1) In any case in which (A) a vessel has been used
 in the commission of an act prohibited under section 307, (B) the owner or
 operator of a vessel or any other person who has been issued or has applied
 for a permit under this Act has acted in violation of section 307, or (C)
 any civil penalty or criminal fine imposed on a vessel or owner or operator
 of a vessel or any other person who has been issued or has applied for a
 permit under any fishery resource law statute enforced by the Secretary
 has not been paid and is overdue, the Secretary may--
 `(i) revoke any permit issued with respect to such vessel or person, with
 or without prejudice to the issuance of subsequent permits;
 `(ii) suspend such permit for a period of time considered by the Secretary
 to be appropriate;
 `(iii) deny such permit; or
 `(iv) impose additional conditions and restrictions on any permit issued to
 or applied for by such vessel or person under this Act and, with respect to
 foreign fishing vessels, on the approved application of the foreign nation
 involved and on any permit issued under that application.
 `(2) In imposing a sanction under this subsection, the Secretary shall take
 into account--
 `(A) the nature, circumstances, extent, and gravity of the prohibited acts
 for which the sanction is imposed; and
 `(B) with respect to the violator, the degree of culpability, any history
 of prior offenses, and such other matters as justice may require.
 `(3) Transfer of ownership of a vessel, by sale or otherwise, shall not
 extinguish any permit sanction that is in effect or is pending at the time
 of transfer of ownership. Before executing the transfer of ownership of a
 vessel, by sale or otherwise, the owner shall disclose in writing to the
 prospective transferee the existence of any permit sanction that will be
 in effect or pending with respect to the vessel at the time of the transfer.
 `(4) In the case of any permit that is suspended under this subsection for
 nonpayment of a civil penalty or criminal fine, the Secretary shall reinstate
 the permit upon payment of the penalty or fine and interest thereon at the
 prevailing rate.
 `(5) No sanctions shall be imposed under this subsection unless there
 has been a prior opportunity for a hearing on the facts underlying the
 violation for which the sanction is imposed, either in conjunction with a
 civil penalty proceeding under this section or otherwise.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The entry for section 308 in the table of contents
 in the first section of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act is amended to read as follows:
`Sec. 308. Civil penalties and permit sanctions.'.
CRIMINAL OFFENSES AND PENALTIES
 SEC. 115. (a) OFFENSES- Paragraph (1) of section 309(a) of the Magnuson
 Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1859(a)) is amended to
 read as follows:
 `(1) section 307(1) (D), (E), (F), (H), (I), or (L); or'.
 (b) PUNISHMENT- Section 309(b) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
 Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1859(b)) is amended--
 (1) by striking `$50,000' and inserting in lieu thereof `$100,000';
 (2) by striking `$100,000' each place it appears and inserting in lieu
 thereof `$200,000';
 (3) by inserting `any observer described in section 307(1)(L) or' immediately
 after `injury to'; and
 (4) by inserting `observer or' immediately before `officer in fear'.
civil forfeitures
 SEC. 116. Section 310(e) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1860(e)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' immediately before `For purposes'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) For purposes of this Act, it shall be a rebuttable presumption that
 any fish of a species which spawns in fresh or estuarine waters and migrates
 to ocean waters that is found on board a vessel is of United States origin
 if the vessel is within the migratory range of the species during that part
 of the year to which the migratory range applies.'.
enforcement
 SEC. 117. Section 311(e) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1861(e)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(e) PAYMENT OF STORAGE, CARE, AND OTHER COSTS- (1) Notwithstanding any
 other provision of law, the Secretary or the Secretary of the Treasury may
 pay from sums received as fines, penalties, and forfeitures of property for
 violations of any provisions of this Act or of any other fishery resource
 law enforced by the Secretary, including the Lacey Act Amendments of 1981
 (16 U.S.C. 3371 et seq.)--
 `(A) the reasonable and necessary costs incurred in providing temporary
 storage, care, and maintenance of seized fish or other property pending
 disposition of any civil or criminal proceeding alleging a violation of
 any provision of this Act or any other fishery resource law enforced by
 the Secretary with respect to that fish or other property;
 `(B) a reward to any person who furnishes information which leads to an
 arrest, conviction, civil penalty assessment, or forfeiture of property for
 any violation of any provision of this Act or any other fishery resource
 law enforced by the Secretary;
 `(C) any expenses directly related to investigations and civil or criminal
 enforcement proceedings, including any necessary expenses for equipment,
 training, travel, witnesses, and contracting services directly related to
 such investigations or proceedings;
 `(D) any valid liens or mortgages against any property that has been
 forfeited;
 `(E) claims of parties in interest to property disposed of under section
 612(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1612(b)) or under other provisions
 of the customs laws, as made applicable by section 310(c) of this Act to
 seizures made by the Secretary under this Act, in amounts determined by
 the Secretary to be applicable to such claims at the time of seizure; and
 `(F) reimbursement to any Federal or State agency, including the Coast Guard,
 for services performed, or personnel, equipment, or facilities utilized,
 under any agreement with the Secretary entered into pursuant to subsection
 (a), or any similar agreement authorized by law.
 `(2) Any person assessed a civil penalty for, or convicted of, any violation
 of this Act shall be liable for the cost incurred in storage, care, and
 maintenance of any fish or other property seized in connection with the
 violation.'.
NORTH PACIFIC FISHERIES RESEARCH PLAN
 SEC. 118. (a) Title III of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management
 Act (16 U.S.C. 1851 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following
 new section:
`SEC. 313. NORTH PACIFIC FISHERIES RESEARCH PLAN.
 `(a) IN GENERAL- The North Pacific Fishery Management Council may prepare,
 in consultation with the Secretary, a fisheries research plan for all
 fisheries under the Council's jurisdiction except salmon fisheries which--
 `(1) requires that observers be stationed on fishing vessels engaged in
 the catching, taking, or harvesting of fish and on United States fish
 processors fishing for or processing species under the jurisdiction of the
 Council, including the Northern Pacific halibut fishery, for the purpose of
 collecting data necessary for the conservation, management, and scientific
 understanding of any fisheries under the Council's jurisdiction; and
 `(2) establishes a system of fees to pay for the costs of implementing
 the plan.
 `(b) STANDARDS- (1) Any plan or plan amendment prepared under this section
 shall be reasonably calculated to--
 `(A) gather reliable data, by stationing observers on all or a statistically
 reliable sample of the fishing vessels and United States fish processors
 included in the plan, necessary for the conservation, management, and
 scientific understanding of the fisheries covered by the plan;
 `(B) be fair and equitable to all vessels and processors;
 `(C) be consistent with applicable provisions of law; and
 `(D) take into consideration the operating requirements of the fisheries
 and the safety of observers and fishermen.
 `(2) Any system of fees established under this section shall--
 `(A) provide that the total amount of fees collected under this section
 not exceed the combined cost of (i) stationing observers on board fishing
 vessels and United States fish processors, (ii) the actual cost of inputting
 collected data, and (iii) assessments necessary for a risk-sharing pool
 implemented under subsection (e) of this section, less any amount received
 for such purpose from another source or from an existing surplus in the North
 Pacific Fishery Observer Fund established in subsection (d) of this section;
 `(B) be fair and equitable to all participants in the fisheries under the
 jurisdiction of the Council, including the Northern Pacific halibut fishery;
 `(C) provide that fees collected not be used to pay any costs of
 administrative overhead or other costs not directly incurred in carrying
 out the plan;
 `(D) not be used to offset amounts authorized under other provisions of law;
 `(E) be expressed as a percentage, not to exceed one percentum, of the
 value of fish and shellfish harvested under the jurisdiction of the Council,
 including the Northern Pacific halibut fishery;
 `(F) be assessed against all fishing vessels and United States fish
 processors, including those not required to carry an observer under the
 plan, participating in fisheries under the jurisdiction of the Council,
 including the Northern Pacific halibut fishery;
 `(G) provide that fees collected will be deposited in the North Pacific
 Fishery Observer Fund established under subsection (d) of this section;
 `(H) provide that fees collected will only be used for implementing the
 plan established under this section; and
 `(I) meet the requirements of section 9701(b) of title 31, United States Code.
 `(c) ACTION BY SECRETARY- (1) Within 60 days after receiving a plan or
 plan amendment from the North Pacific Council under this section, the
 Secretary shall review such plan or plan amendment and either (A) remand
 such plan or plan amendment to the Council with comments if it does not meet
 the requirements of this section, or (B) publish in the Federal Register
 proposed regulations for implementing such plan or plan amendment.
 `(2) During the 60-day public comment period, the Secretary shall conduct
 a public hearing in each State represented on the Council for the purpose
 of receiving public comments on the proposed regulations.
 `(3) Within 45 days of the close of the public comment period, the Secretary,
 in consultation with the Council, shall analyze the public comment received
 and publish final regulations for implementing such plan.
 `(4) If the Secretary remands a plan or plan amendment to the Council for
 failure to meet the requirements of this section, the Council may resubmit
 such plan or plan amendment at any time after taking action the Council
 believes will address the defects identified by the Secretary. Any plan or
 plan amendment resubmitted to the Secretary will be treated as an original
 plan submitted to the Secretary under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
 `(d) FISHERY OBSERVER FUND- There is established in the Treasury a
 North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund. The Fund shall be available, without
 appropriation or fiscal year limitation, only to the Secretary for the purpose
 of carrying out the provisions of this section, subject to the restrictions
 in subsection (b)(2) of this section. The Fund shall consist of all monies
 deposited into it in accordance with this section. Sums in the Fund that
 are not currently needed for the purposes of this section shall be kept on
 deposit or invested in obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States.
 `(e) SPECIAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OBSERVERS- (1) The Secretary shall review--
 `(A) the feasibility of establishing a risk sharing pool through a reasonable
 fee, subject to the limitations of subsection (b)(2)(E) of this section,
 to provide coverage for vessels and owners against liability from civil
 suits by observers, and
 `(B) the availability of comprehensive commercial insurance for vessel and
 owner liability against civil suits by observers.
 `(2) If the Secretary determines that a risk sharing pool is feasible,
 the Secretary shall establish such a pool, subject to the provisions of
 subsection (b)(2) of this section, unless the Secretary determines that--
 `(A) comprehensive commercial insurance is available for all fishing vessels
 and United States fish processors required to have observers under the
 provisions of this section, and
 `(B) such comprehensive commercial insurance will provide a greater measure
 of coverage at a lower cost to each participant.'.
 (b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT- The table of contents in the first section of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act is amended by inserting
 immediately after the entry for section 312 the following new entry:
`Sec. 313. North Pacific fisheries research plan.'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 119. Section 406 of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1882) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
 `(16) $77,200,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1990.
 `(17) $94,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1991, of which
 $6,500,000 shall be used for enforcement and $5,000,000 shall be used to
 increase research and assessment efforts.
 `(18) $98,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1992.
 `(19) $102,000,000 for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1993.'.
miscellaneous technical amendments
 SEC. 120. (a) INTERNATIONAL FISHERY AGREEMENTS- Section 202(f) of the
 Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1822(f)), as so
 redesignated by section 105 of this Act, is amended by striking `a exclusive
 economic zone' and inserting in lieu thereof `an exclusive economic zone'.
 (b) FOREIGN FISHING PERMITS- Section 204(b)(4)(C) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1824(b)(4)(C)) is amended by
 striking `council' and inserting in lieu thereof `Council'.
 (c) COUNCIL PROCEDURAL MATTERS- Section 302(j)(4) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1852(j)(4)) is amended by striking
 `council employee' and inserting in lieu thereof `Council employee'.
 (d) ACTION BY SECRETARY- Section 304(c)(2)(B) of the Magnuson Fishery
 Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1854(c)(2)(B)) is amended by
 striking `appropriate council' and inserting in lieu thereof `appropriate
 Council'.
TITLE II--ATLANTIC TUNAS CONVENTION ACT OF 1975
LIMITATIONS ON APPOINTMENTS OF COMMISSIONERS
 SEC. 201. (a) IN GENERAL- Section 3(a) of the Atlantic Tunas Convention
 Act of 1975 (16 U.S.C. 971a(a)) is amended--
 (1) by inserting `(1)' immediately after `(a)'; and
 (2) by adding at the end the following:
 `(2) Of the Commissioners appointed under paragraph (1) who are not
 governmental employees--
 `(A) one shall be appointed from among individuals with knowledge and
 experience regarding commercial fishing in the Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of
 Mexico, or Caribbean Sea; and
 `(B) one shall be appointed from among individuals with knowledge and
 experience regarding recreational fishing in the Atlantic Ocean, Gulf of
 Mexico, or Caribbean Sea.
 `(3)(A) The term of a Commissioner shall be three years.
 `(B) An individual appointed in accordance with paragraph (2) shall not be
 eligible to serve more than two consecutive terms as a Commissioner.'.
 (b) APPLICATION TO CURRENT COMMISSIONERS- (1) Paragraph (2) of section 3(a)
 of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16 U.S.C. 971a(a)), as added by
 this section, shall not apply to reappointment of an individual as a United
 States Commissioner of the International Commission for the Conservation of
 Atlantic Tunas (hereinafter in this title referred to as a `Commissioner')
 if that individual is serving in that position on the date of enactment of
 this Act.
 (2) An individual serving a term as a Commissioner on the date of enactment
 of this Act shall not, by reason of that term of service, be ineligible
 under paragraph (3)(B) of section 3(a) of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act
 of 1975 (16 U.S.C. 971a(a)), as added by this section, for reappointment
 as a Commissioner.
TERMINATION OF CURRENT TERMS AND COMPLETION OF PENDING APPOINTMENTS
 SEC. 202. The term as Commissioner of each individual serving in that position
 on the date of enactment of this Act shall terminate March 1, 1991. Not later
 than that date, the President shall complete appointment (or reappointment)
 of individuals to serve as Commissioners on and after that date.
TRAVEL EXPENSES OF COMMISSIONERS
 SEC. 203. Section 3 of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16
 U.S.C. 971a) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
 `(d)(1) The Secretary of State shall pay the necessary travel expenses
 of United States Commissioners, Alternate United States Commissioners,
 and authorized advisors in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations
 and sections 5701, 5702, 5704 through 5708, and 5731 of title 5, United
 States Code.
 `(2) The Secretary may reimburse the Secretary of State for amounts expended
 by the Secretary of State under this subsection.'.
TRAVEL EXPENSES OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE
 SEC. 204. Section 4 of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16
 U.S.C. 971b) is amended by striking `On approval' and all that follows and
 inserting in lieu thereof the following: `The Secretary and the Secretary
 of State may pay the necessary travel expenses of members of the advisory
 committee in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulations and sections
 5701, 5702, 5704 through 5708, and 5731 of title 5, United States Code.'.
SPECIES WORKING GROUPS
 SEC. 205. The Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16 U.S.C. 971 et seq.) is
 amended by inserting immediately after section 4 the following new section:
`SPECIES WORKING GROUPS
 `SEC. 4A. The United States Commissioners may establish species working groups
 for the purpose of providing advice and recommendations to the Commissioners
 and the advisory committee on matters relating to the conservation and
 management of any highly migratory species covered by the Convention. Any
 species working group shall consist of no more than seven members of the
 advisory committee and no more than four scientific or technical personnel,
 as considered necessary by the Commissioner.'.
REGULATIONS TO CARRY OUT COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS
 SEC. 206. (a) Section 6(c)(1) of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975
 (16 U.S.C. 971d(c)(1)) is amended by redesignating the existing text as
 subparagraph (A) and by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
 `(B) Not later than June 30, 1991, the Secretary shall promulgate any
 additional regulations necessary to ensure that the United States is in full
 compliance with all recommendations made by the Commission that have been
 accepted by the United States and with other agreements under the Convention
 between the United States and any nation which is a party to the Convention.
 `(C) Regulations promulgated under this paragraph shall, to the extent
 practicable, be consistent with fishery management plans prepared and
 implemented under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act
 (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).'.
 (b) Section 6(c)(3) of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16
 U.S.C. 971d(c)(3)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (H) by striking `; and' and inserting in lieu thereof
 a semicolon; and
 (2) by striking subparagraph (I) and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
 `(I) require any commercial or recreational fisherman to obtain a permit from
 the Secretary and report the quantity of the catch of a regulated species;
 `(J) require that observers be carried aboard fishing vessels for the
 purpose of providing statistically reliable scientific data; and
 `(K) impose such other requirements and provide for such other measures
 as the Secretary may determine necessary to implement any recommendation
 of the Convention or to obtain scientific data necessary to accomplish the
 purpose of the Convention;
except that no regulation promulgated under this section may have the effect
of increasing or decreasing any allocation or quota of fish to the United
States agreed to pursuant to a recommendation of the Commission.'.
RECOMMENDED COMMISSION ACTIONS REGARDING LARGE-SCALE DRIFTNET FISHING AND
CONSERVATION OF ATLANTIC SWORDFISH
 SEC. 207. Section 6(d) of the Altantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16
 U.S.C. 971d(d)) is amended to read as follows:
 `(d)(1) It is the sense of the Congress that the Secretary, in consultation
 with the Secretary of State, should seek support for a recommendation by
 the Commission to ban large-scale driftnet fishing (as that term is defined
 in section 3(16) of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act)
 in the Convention area.
 `(2) The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
 shall request the Commission to adopt recommendations necessary for the
 conservation and management of Atlantic swordfish. In making the request,
 the Secretary shall seek the establishment of an international minimum
 harvest size and a reduction in harvest levels to the extent necessary
 to conserve the stock. Until the Commission adopts all the conservation
 and management measures requested by the Secretary, the Secretary, within 3
 months after each annual meeting of the Commission, shall notify Congress as
 to the nature and results of his request. These notifications shall identify
 those nations not acting to conserve and manage Atlantic swordfish, and
 recommend measures which could be taken to achieve effective international
 conservation and management of the stock.'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 208. Section 10 of the Atlantic Tunas Convention Act of 1975 (16
 U.S.C. 971h) is amended to read as follows:
`AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 `SEC. 10. There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act,
 including use for payment of the United States share of the joint expenses
 of the Commission as provided in article X of the Convention, not more than
 $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993.'.
TITLE III--FISHERMEN'S PROTECTIVE ACT OF 1967
VESSEL SEIZURE REIMBURSEMENT AUTHORITY
 SEC. 301. Section 7(e) of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22
 U.S.C. 1977(e)) is amended by striking `October 1, 1989' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `October 1, 1993'.
TITLE IV--ANADROMOUS FISH CONSERVATION ACT
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 401. Section 4(a) of the Anadromous Fish Conservation Act (16
 U.S.C. 757d(a)) is amended--
 (1) by striking paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6);
 (2) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (1); and
 (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
 `(2) $8,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994,
 and 1995.'.
TITLE V--INTERJURISDICTIONAL FISHERIES ACT OF 1986
CLARIFICATION OF APPORTIONMENT LIMITATION
 SEC. 501. Section 304(c)(3)(B) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of
 1986 (16 U.S.C. 4103(c)(3)(B)) is amended by inserting `which are managed
 under an interstate fishery management plan' immediately after `fishery
 resources'.
FEDERAL SHARE OF ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT WITH ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 502. Section 308(b) of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986
 (16 U.S.C. 4107(b)) is amended--
 (1) in paragraph (1) by striking `and' at the end;
 (2) in paragraph (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting in
 lieu thereof `; and'; and
 (3) by inserting immediately after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
 `(3) the Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out with an
 amount appropriated under the authority of this subsection shall be 75
 percent of the cost of that activity.'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 503. Section 308 of the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986
 (16 U.S.C. 4107) is amended--
 (1) in subsection (a) by striking `fiscal years 1987, 1988, and 1989' and
 inserting in lieu thereof `the fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993,
 1994, and 1995';
 (2) in subsection (b) by striking `fiscal years 1988 and 1989' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `the fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994,
 and 1995'; and
 (3) in subsection (c) by striking `fiscal years 1988 and 1989' and inserting
 in lieu thereof `the fiscal years 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993'.
TITLE VI--CENTRAL, WESTERN, AND SOUTH PACIFIC FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT ACT
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 601. Section 7 of the Central, Western, and South Pacific Fisheries
 Development Act (16 U.S.C. 758e-5) is amended by striking `and 1988'
 and inserting in lieu thereof `1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994,
 and 1995'.
TITLE VII--NATIONAL FISH AND SEAFOOD PROMOTIONAL COUNCIL
EXTENSION OF TERMINATION DATE
 SEC. 701. Section 206(g) of the Fish and Seafood Promotion Act of 1986 (16
 U.S.C. 4005(g)) is amended by striking `October 1, 1990' and inserting in
 lieu thereof `December 31, 1991'.
AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
 SEC. 702. Section 209(d) of the Fish and Seafood Promotion Act of 1986 (16
 U.S.C. 4008(d)) is amended by striking `1990' and inserting in lieu thereof
 `1991'.
TRANSFER OF SALTONSTALL-KENNEDY FUNDS
 SEC. 703. Section 2(b)(2) of the Act of August 11, 1939 (commonly known as
 the Saltonstall-Kennedy Act; 15 U.S.C. 713c-3(b)(2)), is amended by striking
 `fiscal year 1990' and inserting in lieu thereof `each of fiscal years 1990
 and 1991'.
CONTINUITY OF NATIONAL COUNCIL MEMBERSHIP
 SEC. 704. (a) UNINTERRUPTED SERVICE- Individuals serving on September 30,
 1990, as members of the National Fish and Seafood Promotion Council shall
 be deemed to continue as members in uninterrupted service since the date
 of their initial appointment.
 (b) FILLING OF VACANCIES- Notwithstanding section 206(e) of the Fish and
 Seafood Promotion Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 4005(e)), any vacancy on the
 National Fish and Seafood Promotion Act not filled as of September 30,
 1990, shall be filled within 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
 (c) TECHNICAL AMENDMENT- Section 207(a)(5) of the Fish and Seafood Promotion
 Act of 1986 (16 U.S.C. 4006(a)(5)) is amended by inserting `initial'
 immediately before `appointments.'
CONTINUITY OF COUNCIL FUNCTIONS, CONTRACTS, AND PERSONNEL
 SEC. 705. All current functions, contracts in force, and existing personnel
 of the National Fish and Seafood Promotional Council as of September 30,
 1990, are reauthorized and extended, and shall continue as if uninterrupted,
 notwithstanding section 206(g) of the Fish and Seafood Promotion Act of 1986
 (16 U.S.C. 4005(g)) as in effect on September 30, 1990.
TITLE VIII--MISCELLANEOUS
CERTIFICATE OF LEGAL ORIGIN FOR ANADROMOUS FISH PRODUCTS
 SEC. 801. (a) NEGOTIATIONS- Within 60 days after the date of enactment of
 this Act, the Secretary of State shall commence negotiations with nations
 which import or export anadromous fish or anadromous fish products for
 the purpose of securing general agreement among such nations to implement
 effective measures to prohibit international trade in anadromous fish or
 anadromous fish products unless such fish or fish products are accompanied
 by a valid certificate of legal origin attesting that the fish or fish
 product was lawfully harvested--
 (1) within the jurisdiction of a nation having naturally occurring or
 artificially established anadromous fish populations of the same species
 as the imported or exported product; or
 (2) on the high seas according to an international agreement among nations
 with jurisdiction over more  than 1 percent of the stocks of anadromous
 fish being so harvested.
 (b) ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES- For the purposes of subsection (a), a valid
 certificate  of legal origin may be issued only by a nation which--
 (1) is the nation having jurisdiction over the vessel or other means by
 which the fish or fish product was harvested; and
 (2) maintains regular harvests of anadromous fish in a manner consistent
 with the criteria for lawful harvests set out in subsection (a).
 (c) BILATERAL OR MULTILATERAL AGREEMENTS- Efforts undertaken by the Secretary
 of State pursuant to subsection (a) may, at the discretion of the Secretary,
 be directed toward achieving either bilateral or multilateral agreements,
 including trade agreements, whichever the Secretary determines to be most
 likely to result in the earliest possible date or dates of agreement by those
 nations which individually have in excess of $1,000,000, or the equivalent,
 in import or export trade in anadromous fish and anadromous fish products.
 (d) REGULATIONS- The Secretary of Commerce shall, within 180 days after
 the date of enactment of this Act, promulgate regulations providing for--
 (1) the issuance of certificates of legal origin pursuant to agreements
 under subsection (a) for anadromous fish and anadromous fish products
 legally harvested by vessels of the United States;
 (2) the delegation of the authority to issue certificates of legal origin
 to States, territories, or possessions of the United States which the
 Secretary of Commerce determines to have implemented a program which is
 sufficient to accomplish the purposes of subsection (a); and
 (3) an orderly transition to such regulations, sufficient to ensure that
 United States commerce in anadromous fish and anadromous fish products is
 not unduly disrupted.
 (e) REPORT REQUIRED- The Secretary of Commerce, after consultation with
 the Secretary of the Treasury, shall, within 180 days after the date of
 enactment of this Act, submit to the Congress a report--
 (1) making recommendations as to the need for the adoption of United
 States import and export restrictions on anadromous fish and anadromous
 fish products consistent with subsection (a); and
 (2) identifying, evaluating, and making recommendations regarding any
 specific statutory or regulatory changes that may be necessary for the
 adoption of such restrictions.
 (f) CERTIFICATION- If, at any time following the promulgation of the
 regulations required by subsection (d), the Secretary of Commerce finds
 that any nation is engaging in trade in unlawfully taken anadromous fish
 or anadromous fish products, the Secretary shall certify that fact to the
 President, which certification shall be deemed to be a certification for
 the purposes of section 8(a)(1) of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967
 (22 U.S.C. 1978(a)(1)).
TITLE IX--DOLPHIN PROTECTION CONSUMER INFORMATION
DOLPHIN PROTECTION
 SEC. 901. (a) SHORT TITLE- This section may be cited as the `Dolphin
 Protection Consumer Information Act'.
 (b) FINDINGS- The Congress finds that--
 (1) dolphins and other marine mammals are frequently killed in the course
 of tuna fishing operations in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean and high
 seas driftnet fishing in other parts of the world;
 (2) it is the policy of the  United States to support a worldwide ban on
 high seas driftnet fishing, in part because of the harmful effects that
 such driftnets have on marine mammals, including dolphins; and
 (3) consumers would like to know if the tuna they purchase is falsely
 labeled as to the effect of the harvesting of the tuna on dolphins.
 (c) DEFINITIONS- For purposes of this section--
 (1) the terms `driftnet' and `driftnet fishing' have the meanings given
 those terms in section 4003 of the Driftnet Impact Monitoring, Assessment,
 and Control Act of 1987 (16  U.S.C. 1822 note);
 (2) the term `eastern tropical Pacific Ocean' means the area of the Pacific
 Ocean bounded by 40 degrees north latitude, 40 degrees south latitude,
 160 degrees west longitude, and the western coastlines of North, Central,
 and South America;
 (3) the term `label' means a display of written, printed, or graphic matter
 on or affixed to the immediate container of any article;
 (4) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of Commerce; and
 (5) the term `tuna product' means a food item which contains tuna and which
 has been processed for retail sale, except perishable sandwiches, salads,
 or other products with a shelf life of less than 3 days.
 (d) LABELING STANDARD- (1) It is a violation of section 5 of the Federal
 Trade Commission Act for any producer, importer, exporter, distributor,
 or seller of any tuna product that is exported from or offered for sale in
 the  United States to include on the label of that product the term `Dolphin
 Safe' or any other term or symbol that falsely claims or suggests that the
 tuna contained in the product was harvested using a method of fishing that
 is not harmful to dolphins if the product contains--
 (A) tuna harvested on the high seas by a vessel engaged in driftnet
 fishing; or
 (B) tuna harvested in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean by a vessel using
 purse seine nets which do not meet the requirements for being considered
 dolphin safe under paragraph (2).
 (2) For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), a tuna product that contains tuna
 harvested in the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean by a fishing vessel using
 purse seine nets is dolphin safe if--
 (A) the vessel is of a type and size that the Secretary has determined is
 not capable of deploying its purse seine nets on or to encircle dolphin; or
 (B)(i) the product is accompanied by a written statement executed by the
 captain of the vessel which harvested the tuna certifying that no tuna were
 caught on the trip in which such tuna were harvested using a purse seine
 net intentionally deployed on or to encircle dolphin;
 (ii) the product is accompanied by a written statement executed by--
 (I) the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, or
 (II) a representative of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission,
which states that there was an approved observer on board the vessel during
the entire trip and that purse seine nets were not intentionally deployed
during the trip on or to encircle dolphin; and
 (iii) the statements referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) are endorsed in
 writing by each exporter, importer, and processor of the product.
 (e) ENFORCEMENT- Any person who knowingly and willfully makes a statement or
 endorsement described in subsection (d)(2)(B) that is false is liable for a
 civil penalty of not to exceed $100,000 assessed in an action brought in any
 appropriate district court of the United States on behalf of the Secretary.
 (f) REGULATIONS- The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the
 Treasury, shall issue regulations to implement this section not later than
 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, including regulations
 establishing procedures and requirements for ensuring that tuna products
 are labeled in accordance with subsection (d).
 (g) TREATMENT OF FISH CAUGHT WITH DRIFTNETS- Section 101(a)(2) of the Marine
 Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(2)) is amended--
 (1) in subparagraph (C) by striking `and' after the semicolon at the end;
 (2) in subparagraph (D) by striking the period at the end and inserting `;
 and'; and
 (3) by adding at the end the following:
 `(E)(i) except as provided in clause (ii), in the case of fish or products
 containing fish harvested by a nation whose fishing vessels engage in high
 seas driftnet fishing, shall require that the government of the exporting
 nation provide documentary evidence that the fish or fish product was not
 harvested with a large-scale driftnet in the South Pacific Ocean after July
 1, 1991, or in any other water of the high seas after July 1, 1992, and
 `(ii) in the case of tuna or a product containing tuna harvested by a nation
 whose fishing vessels engage in high seas driftnet fishing, shall require
 that the government of the exporting nation provide documentary evidence
 that the tuna or tuna product was not harvested with a large-scale driftnet
 anywhere on the high seas after July 1, 1991.
For purposes of subparagraph (E), the term `driftnet' has the meaning given
such term in section 4003 of the Driftnet Impact Monitoring, Assessment,
and Control Act of 1987 (16 U.S.C. 1822 note).'.
 (h) NEGOTIATIONS- The Secretary of State shall immediately seek, through
 negotiations and discussions with appropriate foreign governments, to reduce
 and, as soon as possible, eliminate the practice of harvesting tuna through
 the use of purse seine nets intentionally deployed to encircle dolphins.
 (i) EFFECTIVE DATE- Subsections (d) and (e) shall take effect 6 months
 after the date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE X--FISHERIES COMMISSION
REDESIGNATION OF FISHERIES COMMISSION
 SEC. 1001. (a) IN GENERAL- The Congress consents to and approves of the
 amendments described in subsection (b) to the interstate compact which
 constituted the Pacific Marine Fisheries Commission, approved by the Act of
 July 24, 1947 (61 Stat. 419; hereinafter in this section referred to as the
 `compact').
 (b) AMENDMENT DESCRIBED- The amendments referred to in subsection (a)
 are the amendments approved and ratified before the effective date of this
 section by the contracting States to the compact, which--
 (1) amend Article III of the compact to redesignate the Pacific Marine
 Fisheries Commission as the `Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission'; and
 (2) make such other amendments to the compact as are necessary solely to
 conform the text of the compact to the amendment described in paragraph (1).
 (c) REFERENCES- Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper,
 or other record of the United States to the Pacific Marine Fisheries
 Commission constituted by the compact is deemed to be a reference to the
 `Pacific States Marine Fisheries Commission'.
TITLE XI--REPORT ON MARINE MAMMALS
REPORT ON MARINE MAMMAL POPULATIONS
 SEC. 1101. The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary
 of the Interior, shall provide to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
 and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Merchant Marine and
 Fisheries of the House of Representatives within 12 months after the date
 of enactment of this Act a report--
 (1) assessing population sizes and trends of harbor seals, sea otters,
 California sea lions, and northern sea lions off the coast of the State
 of Washington, which assessment shall include the historic, present, and
 projected population sizes and the overall health of current populations
 of such marine mammals;
 (2) assessing the effectiveness of sections 101(a)(3)(A) and 109(h) of the
 Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(3)(A) and 1379(h))
 with particular emphasis on the management of the lower Columbia River and
 Puget Sound marine mammal populations, which assessment shall describe how
 the agencies are interpreting and implementing such sections, how often such
 sections have been invoked, and whether such sections have been effective
 in the management of marine mammal populations and in responding to the
 problems which such sections were intended to address; and
 (3) specifying long range management plans for the species of marine mammals
 listed in paragraph (1).
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.