 
--H.R.5144--
H.R.5144
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To provide for the study of certain historical and cultural resources located
in the city
of Vancouver, Washington, and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. STATEMENT OF FINDINGS.
 The Congress finds that--
 (1) the city of Vancouver, Washington, has a unique array of contiguous
 historical sites which chronicle important steps in the settlement and
 development of the Northwest, including--
 (A) Fort Vancouver National Historic Site, the site of the Hudson's Bay
 Company trading post established in 1825;
 (B) Vancouver Barracks, an active military installation since 1849;
 (C) Officers' Row National Register Historic District, 21 adaptively
 rehabilitated military officers' quarters;
 (D) Pearson Airpark, an early United States Army airfield and one of the
 oldest operating airports in the country; and
 (E) the Columbia River, an early Northwest exploration and settlement
 corridor, including the route of the Lewis and Clark expedition, center of
 Indian trade, shipbuilding, and fishing;
 (2) these historical assets are owned and managed by several governmental
 entities, including the National Park Service, city of Vancouver, and the
 United States Army;
 (3) sites within the Vancouver historical area are in a state of transition
 and are the focus of various proposals and initiatives;
 (4) there is a lack of formal coordination of management or planning among
 the various entities; and
 (5) failure to coordinate the planning and management within the Area may
 result in lost opportunities to preserve and enhance irreplaceable historical
 sites and open space.
SEC. 2. VANCOUVER HISTORICAL STUDY COMMISSION.
 (a) ESTABLISHMENT- There is hereby established a Vancouver Historical Study
 Commission which shall study and make recommendations regarding--
 (1) the preservation, protection, enhancement, enjoyment, and utilization of
 the historic, cultural, natural, and recreational resources of the Area; and
 (2) the feasibility of establishing a Vancouver National Historical Reserve.
 (b) MEMBERSHIP- The Commission shall consist of the following 5 members:
 (1) The Director of the National Park Service, or his designee.
 (2) One individual appointed by the Secretary of the Interior from
 recommendations submitted by the Mayor of Vancouver to represent the city
 of Vancouver.
 (3) The Secretary of the Army, or his designee.
 (4) One individual appointed by the Secretary of the Interior from
 recommendations submitted by the Governor of Washington to represent the
 State Historic Preservation Office.
 (5) One individual appointed by the Secretary of the Interior to represent
 the general public.
Members shall be appointed within 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act.
 (c) VACANCY- A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in the manner in
 which the original appointment was made.
 (d) COMPENSATION- Members of the Commission shall serve without pay. While
 away from their homes or regular places of business in the performance of
 services for the Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed
 travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistance, in the same
 manner as persons employed intermittently in Government service are allowed
 expenses under section 5703 of title 5 of the United States Code.
 (e) CHAIRPERSON- The Chairperson of the Commission shall be appointed by
 the Secretary.
 (f) QUORUM- Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum.
 (g) MEETINGS- The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chairperson or
 a majority of its members.
 (h) STAFF- The Secretary shall provide the Commission with such staff and
 technical assistance as the Secretary, after consultation with the Commission,
 considers appropriate to enable the Commission to carry out its duties. Upon
 request of the Secretary, any Federal agency may provide to the Commission
 on a reimbursable basis information, personnel, property, and services to
 assist in carrying out its duties under this Act. The Secretary may accept the
 services of personnel detailed from the State of Washington or any political
 subdivision of the State and may reimburse the State or such political
 subdivision for such services. The Commission may procure temporary and
 intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code.
 (i) TERMINATION OF COMMISSION- The Commission shall terminate upon submission
 of the study report as provided in section 3.
SEC. 3. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
 (a) REPORT- (1) The Commission shall prepare a report--
 (A) specifying the results of the study required by section 2(a); and
 (B) containing--
 (i) an inventory and assessment of the historic, cultural, natural, and
 recreational resources located within the Area;
 (ii) specific preservation and interpretation goals;
 (iii) proposed alternative management strategies whereby the funds,
 data, personnel, and authorities of public and private entities may be
 coordinated; and
 (iv) recommendations concerning the continued operation of Pearson Airpark in
 a manner that will preserve and promote historic aviation and interpretation
 of the Area, compatible with other historic and cultural resources of the
 Area, including Fort Vancouver National Historic Site.
 (2) In making recommendations under paragraph (1)(B)(iv), the Commission
 shall assess--
 (A) the impact of current airport operations on the preservation, use,
 and interpretation of historic and cultural resources in the Area; and
 (B) future operation of the airport undertaking such mitigation measures
 as may be necessary to minimize the intrusion on adjacent historic and
 cultural resources.
 (b) DEVELOPMENT OF STUDY-
 (1) In undertaking the study under section 2(a), the Commission shall consult
 on a regular basis with appropriate officials of any local government or
 Federal or State agency which has jurisdiction over lands and waters within
 the Area.
 (2) In undertaking the study under section 2(a), the Commission shall
 consult with interested conservation, business, professional and citizen
 organizations.
 (3) In undertaking the study under section 2(a), the Commission shall
 conduct public hearings within the Area, and at such other places as may
 be appropriate, for the purpose of providing interested persons with the
 opportunity to testify with respect to matters to be addressed by the study.
 (c) TRANSMITTAL OF STUDY REPORT- Not later than 18 months after the date
 of enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit the report required
 under subsection (a) to the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
 of the Army. The Secretary of the Interior shall submit the report along
 with any comments or recommendations that the Secretary may wish to make to
 the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the United States House
 of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of
 the United States Senate within 30 days after receipt of such report from
 the Commission.
SEC. 4. DETERMINATION OF SUITABILITY OF CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY.
 (a) NOTIFICATION OF SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR- The Secretary of Defense
 shall notify the Secretary of the Interior upon any determination by the
 Secretary of Defense that any real property located at Vancouver Barracks
 is excess property of the Department of Defense.
 (b) REVIEW OF PROPERTY BY SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR- Not later than 90 days
 after receiving notification from the Secretary of Defense under subsection
 (a), the Secretary of the Interior shall--
 (1) review the property that is the subject of the notification with respect
 to the suitability of all or part of the property for administration by
 the Secretary of the Interior or the State of Washington or its political
 subdivisions; and
 (2) report to the Congress the findings of that review and recommendations
 for any legislation.
SEC. 5. RESTRICTION ON DISPOSAL OR USE OF PROPERTY.
 Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any real property located at
 Vancouver Barracks that is determined by the Secretary of Defense to be excess
 property of the Department of Defense may not be disposed of or used by any
 Federal agency before the end of the one-year period following submission
 of a report to the Congress regarding that property under section 4(b).
SEC. 6. DUTIES OF OTHER FEDERAL ENTITIES.
 Any Federal entity conducting or supporting activities directly affecting
 the Area shall--
 (1) consult with the Secretary and the Commission with respect to such
 activities;
 (2) cooperate with the Secretary and the Commission in carrying out their
 duties under this Act and, to the maximum extent practicable, coordinate
 such activities with the carrying out of such duties; and
 (3) to the maximum extent practicable, conduct or support such activities
 in a manner consistent with the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 7. DEFINITIONS.
 As used in this Act--
 (1) the term `Area' means the area which incorporates those resources listed
 in section (1);
 (2) the term `Commission' means the Vancouver Historical Study Commission
 established by section 2; and
 (3) the term `Secretary' means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
 There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to
 carry out this Act.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.