 
--H.R.3952--
H.R.3952
One Hundred First Congress of the United States of America
AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday, the twenty-third day
of January,
one thousand nine hundred and ninety
An Act
To authorize certain United States assistance and trade benefits for Panama,
and for other purposes.
 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
 States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the `Urgent Assistance for Democracy in Panama
 Act of 1990'.
TITLE I--PANAMA
SEC. 101. IMMEDIATE UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE.
 (a) ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS-
 (1) AUTHORITY TO USE FUNDS FOR ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE-
 (A) IN GENERAL- The President may use up to $32,000,000 of funds made
 available for economic assistance programs in order to provide economic
 assistance for Panama for fiscal year 1990 notwithstanding the provisions
 of law specified in subsection (c) of this section.
 (B) DEOBLIGATION/REOBLIGATION AUTHORITY- Funds may be made available for use
 under subparagraph (A) without regard to the limitation in section 515 of the
 Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167), that funds deobligated under that section
 are available for reobligation only for countries within the same general
 region for which the funds were originally obligated.
 (C) ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE DEFINED- As used in subparagraph (A), the term
 `economic assistance' means assistance under part I of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 and following; relating to development and
 related economic assistance programs) and assistance under chapter 4 of
 part II of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2346 and following; relating to the economic
 support fund).
 (2) AUTHORITY TO USE CERTAIN GUARANTY AUTHORITIES- The President--
 (A) may use up to $10,000,000 of the guaranty authority available to carry
 out section 222 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2182;
 relating to the housing guaranty program), and
 (B) may exercise the authorities of section 224 of that Act (22 U.S.C. 2184;
 relating to the trade credit insurance program for Central America),
with respect to Panama for fiscal year 1990 without regard to the provisions
of law specified in subsection (c) of this section.
 (b) LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE-
 (1) ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE PROGRAM- Up to $1,200,000 of the funds made
 available for Panama under subsection (a)(1) of this section may be used
 to provide--
 (A) assistance authorized by subsection (b)(3) of section 534 of the Foreign
 Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346c; relating to the administration of
 justice program); and
 (B) training for the Public Forces and other civilian law enforcement
 forces of Panama in human rights, civil law, and investigative and civilian
 law enforcement techniques, notwithstanding section 660 of that Act (22
 U.S.C. 2420; relating to the prohibition on assistance for law enforcement
 forces).
All assistance provided for Panama under this paragraph shall be counted
toward the limitation contained in the second sentence of section 534(e)
of that Act and toward the requirement of the second sentence of section
599G(c) of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167).
 (2) USE OF MILITARY ASSISTANCE PIPELINE FOR PANAMA TO PROCURE LAW ENFORCEMENT
 EQUIPMENT-
 (A) AUTHORITY- Prior year military assistance funds that are obligated for
 Panama shall be available to finance the procurement of defense articles by
 law enforcement forces in Panama and related defense services (other than
 training) notwithstanding the provisions of law specified in subsection (c)
 of this section and section 660 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22
 U.S.C. 2420; relating to the prohibition on assistance for law enforcement
 forces).
 (B) LIMITATIONS ON LETHAL EQUIPMENT- Not more than $500,000 of the funds
 made available under subparagraph (A) may be used for the procurement of
 lethal equipment. Only lethal equipment that is appropriate for standard
 civilian law enforcement requirements may be procured with such funds.
 (C) PRIOR YEAR MILITARY ASSISTANCE FUNDS DEFINED- As used in subparagraph
 (A), the term `prior year military assistance funds' means funds that were
 appropriated for a fiscal year prior to fiscal year 1990 to carry out chapter
 2 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2311 and
 following; relating to the grant military assistance program) or section
 23 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763; relating to foreign
 military sales credits).
 (3) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS-
 (A) IN GENERAL- Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph,
 the President shall notify the congressional committees specified in
 section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2394-1)
 in accordance with the procedures applicable to reprogrammings under that
 section at least 15 days before--
 (i) each obligation of funds under paragraph (1) of this subsection, and
 (ii) each commitment to use funds under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
 (B) EXCEPTION- Such notification is not required with respect to--
 (i) obligations under paragraph (1), and
 (ii) commitments to use funds under paragraph (2) for the procurement of
 uniforms and communications equipment (and related defense services),
that occur prior to the end of the 15-day period beginning on the date of
enactment of this Act to the extent that such obligations or commitments,
as the case may be, were previously justified to the Congress.
 (c) BROOKE-ALEXANDER AMENDMENT- The provisions of law referred to in
 subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), and (b)(2)(A) of this section are section 620(q)
 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2370(q)); and section 518 of
 the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
 Act, 1990 (Public Law 101-167), and the corresponding sections of foreign
 assistance appropriations Acts for prior fiscal years.
SEC. 102. RESUMPTION OF UNITED STATES ASSISTANCE: ANTINARCOTICS CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
 Because the vital national interests of the United States so require and
 because the Endara Government of Panama has indicated its willingness,
 and is taking steps, to cooperate fully with the United States to control
 narcotics production, trafficking, and money laundering, the requirements
 of paragraphs (1) and (5) of section 481(h) of the Foreign Assistance
 Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291(h)) shall cease to apply to Panama as of the
 date of enactment of this Act to the extent that those requirements became
 applicable to Panama by reason of the fact that the President did not make a
 certification with respect to Panama under paragraph (2) of that section at
 the time the international narcotics control strategy reports for 1988 and
 1989 were submitted to the Congress pursuant to section 481(e) of that Act.
SEC. 103. RESUMPTION OF TRADE BENEFITS: ANTINARCOTICS CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
 (a) RESUMPTION UPON DATE OF ENACTMENT- Because the vital national interests
 of the United States so require and because the Endara Government of
 Panama has indicated its willingness, and is taking steps, to cooperate
 fully with the United States to control narcotics production, trafficking,
 and money laundering, the conditions specified in section 802(b)(4)(B) of
 the Narcotics Control Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2492(b)(4)(B)) shall be deemed
 to be satisfied as of the date of enactment of this Act with respect to
 the action taken pursuant to section 802(a) of that Act that is described
 in subsection (b) of this section.
 (b) SPECIFICATION OF BENEFITS- The action referred to in subsection (a) is
 the denial to articles imported from Panama of preferential tariff treatment
 under the Generalized System of Preferences (19 U.S.C. 2461 and following)
 and the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act (19 U.S.C. 2701 and following)
 pursuant to Presidential Proclamation 5779 of March 23, 1988.
SEC. 104. REPORT ON PANAMANIAN BANK SECRECY LAWS.
 (a) CONGRESSIONAL CONCERNS- The Congress commends the Endara Government
 for its cooperation and assistance in freezing Panamanian bank accounts
 believed to be implicated in narcotics-related and other illegal financial
 transactions. The Congress remains concerned, however, that the current
 status of bank secrecy laws in Panama may lend itself to continued criminal
 abuse of those laws despite the best intentions of the Endara Government.
 (b) REPORT- Therefore, no later than April 15, 1990, the President shall
 submit a detailed report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives
 and the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate on
 specific actions being undertaken by the Government of Panama to modify
 the existing bank secrecy regime in order to facilitate detection and
 prosecution of criminal activities, including--
 (1) the modification of bank secrecy laws by the Government of Panama;
 (2) the conclusion of an exchange-of-information agreement between the
 United States and Panama; and
 (3) agreements entered into by the Government of Panama or in the process
 of negotiation that are designed to deter illegal financial transactions
 and to facilitate early detection and prosecution of such illegal activities.
TITLE II--EASTERN EUROPE AND YUGOSLAVIA
SEC. 201. ASSISTANCE TO SUPPORT TRANSITION TO DEMOCRACY.
 (a) AUTHORITY- Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President
 may use up to $10,000,000 of the funds appropriated for fiscal year 1990
 to carry out chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961
 (22 U.S.C. 2346 and following; relating to the economic support fund) to
 support the process of democratic transition in East European countries
 and Yugoslavia, in addition to amounts otherwise available for such purposes.
 (b) LIMITATION- Funds provided under this section shall be made available
 only--
 (1) after the President has certified to the Congress that the country
 where funds are being expended has had, or is scheduled to have, open and
 free multiparty national or regional elections; and
 (2) in such a manner so as to benefit substantially a full range of
 non-Communist political parties in the countries in which such funds are used.
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
Vice President of the United States and
President of the Senate.